ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e99	The representatives Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and Knut Arild Hareide, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from representatives Lise Christoffersen, Sylvi Graham, Ingjerd Schou and Anette Trettebergstuen on leave on 23 and 24 April – all for participation in the 2013 session of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, second part, in Strasbourg from the Workers' Party Group on sick leave for the representative Tove Linnea Brandvik from 23 April until further notice from the representative Susanne Bratli on study leave on 23 and 24 April Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of the Buskerud County, Kjell Børre Hansen, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Lise Christoffersen, because of illness. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Bente Stein Mathisen For the Province of Buskerud: Nina Mjøberg For Hedmark County: Farahnaz Bahrami For the county of Hordaland: Roald Aga Haug For Nord-Trøndelag County: Bord Langsävold For Eastfold County: Tage Pettersen
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e174	Bente Stein Mathisen, Nina Mjøberg, Farahnaz Bahrami, Roald Aga Haug, Bård Langsävold and Tage Pettersen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e180	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr are unanimously elected presidents of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e203	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: 25 minutes, 15 minutes, 10 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes of the Central Party, 5 minutes of the Christian People's Party, 5 minutes of the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes of the Left. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e212	International studies show that adverse events occur in about 10 pst. of all patients admitted to somatic hospitals, including both large and small incidents. This means that the total risk is high. A report prepared by Professor Hjort of the Directorate for Social and Health in 2003 shows that there is a significant extent of errors and adverse events in the Norwegian healthcare system. International figures transferred to Norwegian conditions should indicate that so-called adverse health incidents annually lead to 2,000 deaths and 15,000 permanently injured patients. The health and care sectors are special because the risk of an adverse event is high because the activity carried out is inherently risky. This is reinforced by the fact that so many people are exposed to the risk and that the consequences of errors are often high. Despite this profile, systematic efforts to ensure quality and reduce risk are insufficient. If you look at other areas of society, for example: the transport sector and the petroleum industry will find a completely different systematic effort to increase safety and reduce the risk of errors. This applies both to the authorities and to the actors, although in these areas there is a lower risk of injury and fewer persons are exposed to the risk. Professor Hjort, together with the Norwegian Medical Association, published a book on the same theme in 2010, but then with a collection of patient stories. In the book, the author writes about the purpose of the last successor: «I feel that unfortunately this book has not managed to create a breakthrough for this field in our country and in our healthcare. [[2007 book]] At my discretion, Norway is far behind the country with which it is natural to compare itself in this area, in particular Denmark, Sweden and England. Of course, I've resented this, and that's why I decided to write a new book that would not only address the mind and the brain, but also the emotions and the heart." It is good that the government has presented the first comprehensive report on quality and patient safety. The background for this is the increased attention given to the theme. In this context, I find reason to highlight the efforts of the Family Working Party — unnatural deaths in Norwegian hospitals. In January 2010, relatives who had experienced that one of their closest relatives had died as a result of health problems. They started a systematic effort both to tell their stories to the media and to have meetings with politicians and authorities. This work has produced results. This group has made clear what Peter F. Hjort wanted, namely to touch emotions and hearts with his stories, but at the same time they have also made concrete proposals and political solutions to prevent others from being hit in the same way as their families have been. All Norwegian hospitals have surveyed the extent of patient injury in 2010 and 2011. These surveys confirm that the magnitude of the number of injuries is about 16 pst. of all stays are associated with at least one injury and that 9 pst. of the stay leads to injury which prolongs hospitalisation or has serious consequences. The patient safety campaign is likely to have already delivered results. It increases attention on specific themes and leads to concrete changes in practice. At the same time, there is a long way left for a systematic job to be done with these health care issues. All the lots in the Committee have joined the points of action summarised at the end of each chapter of the biggest notification. These are measures that are therefore widely supported in their implementation, which are perceived as necessary and which are going in the right direction. The Committee has taken particular note of the following main measures: establish a five-year national patient safety programme to establish a permanent investigation unit in the State Health Authority to carry out a wide-ranging investigation into the follow-up of serious incidents by society and suspicion of criminal offences in the healthcare service proposals for legislative changes in order to strengthen patients and their legal status in supervision cases, to carry out a national test of quality-based funding in the specialist health service to develop and publish several quality indicators and to investigate the establishment of a national register of municipal health and care services; Although there is a broad consensus on the measures proposed by the government, the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party take in more concrete proposals and a clearer direction for this work than the present government has laid down. It is also linked to a number of proposals on this particular topic which these parties have promoted together over the last major periods. Those proposals shall respond to three main challenges: Establish more balanced management. Better quality and safety systems and more systematic work. Changes in culture through more transparency and respect for patients’ experiences. Over the years, a number of representative proposals have been promoted in which these parties have supported the proposals. The first was a comprehensive proposal by Erna Solberg, Inge Wohnning and Sonja Irene Sjøli in 2009 on a number of measures in this area. A new proposal was made in 2010, by Sonja Irene Sjøli and signed, on better legal certainty for patients. There was a new proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Right in 2010, on a disaster commission. When this proposal was to be discussed in Stortinget, the Liaison Group held a mark outside the Stortinget evening before, in support of the proposal – which did not receive a majority. On the same night that the marking was held, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health and Health said that the government would start work on its own big message. That is the result of the work we are dealing with today. Later, I made a proposal for greater transparency on online healthcare and made 16 comprehensive proposals on more balanced management, changed culture and more systematic work on patient safety and quality. In this case, the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party promote five joint proposals and the Advance Party and the Right two more proposals. I would like to take this opportunity to address these proposals, which the Right is promoting together with others in the matter. The proposals require a specific requirement for hospitals to establish an ISO certification. We repeat the proposal for a permanent committee of inquiry according to the model of the accident commission in the transport sector. When the committee consulted on the notification of the gross domestic product, the outgoing head of the accident commission for the transport sector was at the hearing and made a clear recommendation that a permanent investigation commission should also be set up in the health sector. The difference between the working method of a permanent study commission and the supervision through the experience gained from the differences in the working environment of the Air Safety and Safety Commission for the transport sector was well explained. There are considerably more people who are injured and die in the health sector than in the transport sector, and these two different approaches to work on to reduce injuries and errors will, in the opinion of these parties, also be necessary for the health sector. One also proposes that someone now bring what Stortinget has called for over a very long time, namely clear, national quality requirements for the medical care system, which is part of the emergency medical service, which has ended up in the backyard with regard to quality requirements. As part of getting more balanced management, these parties also propose that we receive an annual report on patient safety and quality for treatment in Stortinget. This notification shall be based on the National Supervisory Authority’s National Supervisory Reports and the Annual Reports of Patients’ Ombudsmen — this following the model of the annual privacy notice, based on the Annual Report of the Data Protection Supervisors and the reports of data subjects. It would have done that the Stortinget, in the same way as every year dealing with annual health care budgets, had set aside sufficient time each year to discuss the results of the work of patients' representatives and health care. Some of the reports submitted by the Health Inspectorate on national supervision are of very high quality. They affect the essential areas of our health care, and they deserve the attention of senior management, both in the ministry and in the Stortinget, and that there will be a discussion about its follow-up. One also proposes to introduce a notification system for municipal health services, so as to ensure that a person receives notifications from the public health service on adverse events and hazards, in order to be able to work more systematically in the public health service in the years to come, not least in view of the fact that a greater part of the health challenges will be addressed at that level. In addition, the Right Party and the Advance Party propose that a review of the DRG system be carried out, and not least that a new and improved authorisation system for private offers in the specialist health service be established.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e282	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e285	Today, the size deals with a comprehensive communication on patient safety and quality in healthcare for the first time. This is an important and difficult area — important because high quality and high safety prevent a lot of suffering, difficult because we know there are many unfortunate incidents in healthcare. As early as 2003, Professor Peter F. Hjort prepared a report on the extent and showed that adverse health incidents are likely to lead to 2,000 deaths per year and that 15 000 patients suffer permanent injuries. This is very serious, in particular because studies show that much can be prevented by simple and systematic work. The government will have transparency about quality and patient safety. Therefore, during 2010 and 2011, all Norwegian hospitals have identified the extent of patient injury. We find that approx. 16 pst. of the patient stays were associated with injury, and too many led to prolonged hospitalisation or serious consequences. The most common causes are hospital infections and misuse of medicines. In order to be better, we need to learn from mistakes and make safe systems around the tasks. Openness about adverse events and patient safety can be frightening. The same hospital that's supposed to help us can be the place we get a damage. The challenges are similar in all Western countries, although health services are organised differently. The paper presents the government’s action on better quality and patient safety. Better interaction with patients and their organisations is necessary. Users will have more information and better coordination between services. Therefore, we will develop the website healthnorge.no, and we will propose changes to health laws and develop targets for patients’ experiences. Furthermore, we want to change systems to improve quality – among other things. we will see if the price part of hospital financing should be eliminated in the event of patient injury. We also want to set up an experimental system that promotes hospitals with the best quality, and we want to make a broad analysis of how society should follow up serious incidents in the service. We are now in the third year of the Patient Safety Campaign ‘In Safe Hands’. The campaign has described concrete improvement measures in 11 areas of action. Hospitals and municipalities are involved. At present, 52 municipalities are active in the campaign. In particular, they have worked on the use of medicinal products in nursing homes. Campaign work is now continuing in a new five-year national patient safety programme. This message reinforces an important work that will save many lives. Part of the job is difficult, but much is also easy. Everyone knows that good hand hygiene prevents hospital infections. Yet it fails too often. Norwegian hospitals are not yet talking about a zero vision for hospital infections, but Google search for ‘hospital infection and zero vision’ shows that many hospitals in Europe and the United States dare to have zero vision and get good results. Which hospital will be the first in Norway to wake up? I am convinced that this big message would delight Professor Peter F. Hjort. He was a patient safety officer in Norway and an inspirational officer. I had the pleasure of having more conversations with him about matters we dealt with early in this big period. He placed the decisive emphasis on learning as an instrument and on the change in the notification system implemented by the government. At the end: Storting messages do not have dedications, but a great thank you from Stortinget's pulpit to Peter F. Hjort for his work is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e302	I believe that everyone in this room wants a more user-oriented health and care service with an increased focus on systematic quality improvement, better patient safety and not least fewer adverse events. That is exactly why it is actually gratifying that this cancellation message has finally arrived. That is why today we are also going to cost ourselves, I think, to stress that all parties in this Chamber recognise that something has to be done, and many proposals are being made in this matter as well. The fact that we also have other solutions is somewhat more impatient and, not least, wants more power to act, is not a demeanor for the proposals and things made in the notification, and it gives credit for that. Usually the opposition is accused of giving an incorrect picture of the Norwegian health system. Therefore, it is very good that this message contains a situational description that confirms what the health professionals, the supervisory authorities, the press and not least the opposition have claimed. We can, among other things: read: ‘Although Norwegian health and care services are among the best in the world and key framework conditions to ensure systematic quality and patient safety work are in place, there is still a significant room for improvement.’ ‘The main challenges can be summarised in the following points: The screening of the extent of patient injury shows that there are patient safety challenges. Health-related infections and adverse drug use are the most common causes of injury to patients. The national patient studies show that patients score poorly in areas such as waiting times, information and coordination between services. Monitoring suggests that there is a lack of quality management and control and that work on quality and patient safety is too poorly anchored in management. There is a need to develop systems and cultures to learn from mistakes. There are some considerable variations in supply, diagnostics and treatment of similar conditions. More knowledge of service quality and safety is needed.» With that situational understanding, which is good, I get a little disappointed when the government's response is characterized by words and expressions such as: systematise, further develop, put on the agenda, governance dialogue, send to the hearing, evaluate changes, stimulate, add than plan, discuss establishment, coordinate, publish and review. These are some of the words that go most in the message. Unfortunately, there is longer between words such as ‘suppose’, ‘trade’ and ‘change’. In order to improve quality and patient safety, effective action is needed and not just management dialogue, incentives, assessments and investigations. Yes, perhaps action would have been better than the delusions that we see from the government when they talk about civil policy, as we have seen – not least last weekend. In a matter as important as this, in a country with long health cows and long waiting periods, more concerned about a theoretical possibility of over-treatment, it may not be so strange that we have nothing to do with health cows. Unfortunately, it is so bad that you are looking forward to the election campaign, where you can tell about this government that so clearly underlines that they will not do anything for those who are in line. I am quite certain that the woman who has waited three years to have her breast reconstructed after a cancer operation, or the one who has waited two years for ablation treatment, is not familiar with the fear of overtreatment in Norwegian health care. It may sometimes seem as if the Workers' Party is in a completely different world, far from the reality experienced by many Norwegian patients. I have passed 50 years and have gradually become an adult man. I have, like very many others in this country, very much to thank Norwegian healthcare for. Without excellent professionals and a tearing medical development, I would not have received a heart transplant, so I would have had to thank myself while I was still in my 40s. Just because I know what it means to depend on Norwegian doctors and Norwegian nurses, depend on good medicine, innovative medicine, research, etc. I get a little upset when their warning calls are ignored by the government – as you can see at times. I would find myself in it if the government only rejected us in the opposition, but the arrogance that is sometimes shown to good trade unions upsets me, and it also rebels Norwegian patients and not least Norwegian health professionals. This debate should be about concrete measures to improve the quality and safety of patients. The first thing we should do then is listen to all the professionals. When doctors complain that excessive bureaucracy prevents the necessary patient contact, it should be taken seriously, especially when we know that today the doctors use 46 pst. of its time on active patient treatment. Then there's a lot to go on. The Progress Party is behind nine proposals that would improve this communication, not least make it more committed. In the past, the Progress Party has promoted a number of representative proposals that would contribute to the same. I refer to the proposals on the accident commission and stronger patient rights in this regard. The Progress Party has also proposed a comprehensive review of the management of the hospital sector in order to identify weak points and thus lay the basis for putting in place concrete measures to address this particular situation. Today, too, the opposition is proposing new measures, and the representative Höie has gone through many of them. One of the proposals I would like to make is the proposal for an ISO certification of Norwegian hospitals and an authorisation system of private operators to provide healthcare on behalf of the public. There are two suggestions I had hoped this whole room could vote for today. Too many Northmen die in traffic. For example, in order to improve road safety: set up a accident commission with expertise to emerge in the event of serious road accidents. In 2011, 168 people died on Norwegian roads. By comparison, more than 2000 people died of adverse health incidents — which could have been estimated to have been avoided. So it's more than ten times as many as in traffic. Since 2000, targeted work has clearly reduced the number of fatalities in traffic by almost 40 pst. Then there is a big question for me why does not the government want to draw on the exchange and the good experience of the transport sector in order to improve the learning effect of healthcare. This is a sin of omission that I think the voters are going to say clearly in September. Some of the things that have made the most impression on me in the years I've been sitting on the Storting are relatives who have lost their girlfriend because of hospital losses. The representative, Höie, was also in it. Much indicates that this government has not met as many of these people as I had hoped, because it had to have a greater impact on government policy. A goal that should at least be behind an overall increase is the commitment to a national ICT system that healthcare is required to implement. Unfortunately, only the Progress Party is behind such a proposal today. Unfortunately, the experience we have gained with local determination of these kinds of solutions has given us quite miserable results. The most modern hospitals in Europe reach 7 – the highest level – on the HIMMS scale. That's what you set the level of ICT technology in hospitals after. In comparison, most Norwegian hospitals reach between 0 and 2 on the same scale. It can't actually go on like that. The Progress Party wants an obligatory plan for the phase-in of a new and modern ICT system for the whole healthcare system. The proposals rejected by the Government parties today may and should become the policy in force in a few months' time. If this happens, we get higher quality, improved patient safety, reduced waiting lists and faster treatment. I would like to take up with this the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e364	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e367	Since I am not in this committee, I have not been working with either the message or the setting, so this is a reader response. The approach of government and government parties is that we have good – in part very good – health and care services, but they need to be better, and they need to be better. Thankfully, the message shows that this is possible. Therefore, this is both a legible and important message. The opposition also points to this theme, perhaps with a somewhat more critical ‘state of the art’ approach, as it should be, or they are somewhat more ‘intelligent’, which was expressed in the previous speech. I think I'm reading that the opposition might well go a long way. A term such as ‘havari’ is strong. It reminds me a little when we hear in the school debate from the Right that Norwegian school is ill, it cannot be reported freshly. When the question is quality, the answers are mostly of the type of systems and cultures, more comprehensive and coherent. That's also the situation here, and that's right. But I also notice that one emphasises that there is a lot to pick up in treatment methods, in both specialist services and health and care services. Here we can get better both quantitatively and qualitatively. That's an important point. I am also pleased that the message so clearly underlines that these services need to be more patient- and user-oriented. What kind of services to provide, and in what way, is usually an objective, professional matter. As you can see, it is important, as underlined in both the message and the setting, to have good conversations between the user/patient on the one hand and professionals on the other. Not that I need it tomorrow when I'm having menic surgery at Gjøvik Hospital, then I think I'll leave it to the professionals. But when we talk about e.g. the home help service, it is a good point for the user and professional, including the relatives, to find out what is the right service, and not to follow what has occasionally been the situation in Norwegian municipalities, that there are local government-adopted standard offers that have been delivered, almost on autopilot. This is also what I think the message is coming up in a good way. Then it's also important that we don't forget the professionals. Not that the message and setting do so, but let's remind ourselves that it is also important to give professionals confidence and let professionals play out the good things that are good at, just this by mixing knowledge and wisdom and mixed theory and practice. Many of the criticisms that have come over the last few years, including: Now very clearly through the Health Service Action, not only is one tired of numbers, reports and red tape, but one also feels that one has been shown a little too little trust and a little too much distrust in the systems and structures that we have developed in recent years. We have to make sure we don't. In this sense, it is good that all parties are now almost fighting to say that we must not take this with productivity and economic rationality too far. It is also important to promote quality, it is important to focus on efficiency and thus to raise and raise – and trust – the good judgement of health professionals in the healthcare sector, who perform around the hospital and in our health and care services on a daily basis. The most readable policy for me is probably the discussion that takes place not least in the configuration of what are members of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, i.e. The majority of the committee writes about a «offer-driven financing» from the Right. Here, it is clear that the opposition suggests that private commercial operators should be able to get their hands on the offer page, while patients, fully funded by the public, should be able to choose and reject the demand side accordingly. Talk about adding to uncontrolled cost growth, over-consumption and over-treatment. Talk about giving the market priority over the policy and, as I was in place, over the subject – the good professional discretion. Then the Progress Party and the Right have dampened the whole thing down at the top of page 16, where it says that it is “free, private capacity” to be exploited. A little further down it says: ‘the capacity existing’. Is it the capacity as of 1 May 2013, or is it the available capacity to be used at any time? It's written as if there's a status quo as far as the scope of the private sector is concerned, and that there's only something more to be exploited, but I'm confident, just like the majority of the committee, that there's going to be a solid growth on the private market. We don't deserve that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e388	In this paper, the government is presenting its policy to improve the quality and patient safety of healthcare services. The aim is to provide more user-oriented health and care services, to increase the focus on systematic quality improvement, to improve patient safety and to reduce the number of unwanted events. Mapping in Norwegian hospitals shows that about 16 pst. the patient retention in Norway is associated with at least one injury. 9 pst. led to prolonged hospital stays or serious complications. These are high numbers, but there's no reason to say that Norway has more or fewer patient injuries than countries we can compare with. We have a highly developed healthcare system, where we have world-class high-specialized supplies, where we shift lungs and sew on new heart valves, but it's on the path we want to fail. The most common causes of injury to patients are those health services associated with infections and adverse drug use. This can be prevented. This has already been addressed in many companies, and with bold ambitions and openness about the damage that is happening. So it's very positive. Openness is important to be able to do this. We need strong systems and cultures to learn from mistakes. We need a culture of openness in the health care system, where the rental is leading the way. Anyone working in the health care system should know that reporting bad events or bad practices is wanted and should be encouraged. Announcement should not have consequences for health workers. We need to get an environment to learn from mistakes. But we don't get a news culture without a general culture of openness. That means adding also has to be able to express itself on other issues. I have received some feedback on issues that indicate that health workers who speak publicly or internally, sometimes feel unresponsive, and sometimes feel against the workplace. Adding to health services fears consequences if they participate in the public debate is not good, and I want to be clear: Norwegian politicians cannot allow, and Norwegian health services cannot tolerate, such a lack of openness. It is a responsibility to ensure a healthy rise in the border between loyalty and freedom of expression. Within the framework of the professional responsibilities imposed on them, the inclusion should be encouraged to participate in the public vocabulary. The Constitution states that only ‘very heavy consideration’ can be used to limit freedom of expression to anyone, and of course it also applies in the healthcare system. I don't think we're getting an optimal patient safety job in Norwegian hospitals without guidance in place. I mean, it's decisive. There is no strength, more than a threat to the local patient safety work that large hospitals are in place without rent. In Arendal they have their bosses in Kristiansand, in Odda is the boss in Haugesund. Long-range guidance is not preferable when focusing on quality. We need close dialogue and leaders who know the place and the workers, and vice versa. Local rents must be entrusted with professional responsibilities, responsibilities and financial responsibilities, and larger hospital units must also ensure local rents. I think this is important for patient safety work. The Storing Message contains an orphanage to introduce a national quality-based funding experiment. I'll be honest to say that I was a little skeptical about this, but what's positive is that it's a project, and it's very good that we get a focus from input-driven funding to quality. But it depends on that it doesn't result in more time-consuming bureaucracy, and that we get good measurement parameters. Because it's like economic incentives that they work, and we have to make them work the right way, so that there won't be an extra penalty for those hospitals that really need a boost in their quality work. Finally, I want to focus on the quality and patient safety work in the municipal health service. It is my little concern that it is often a hospital that we are talking about, but we also need to focus on the municipal health service. The Storting notification also refers to better quality measures in the municipal health service. I think this is a lot of darkness and a lot of improvement potential. The medical officer was named. We can also look at the use of medicines in hospitals, where we know that there is a lot of mistreatment and – to the representative Per Arne Olsen – there is actually overtreatment in the Norwegian health care system that we must start to take seriously. In the end, I actually want to give a little praise to the opposition because for four years, even if we disagree on proposals, they have seen patient safety on the agenda. And I would like to thank the relatives for the survivors, with whom we have had a lot of dialogue, with whom I think we need to take a lot of credit because today there is a big message about patient safety and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e409	The Christian People's Party is very pleased that the government presented the big message we are discussing today on quality and patient safety in healthcare. The Communication is a result of several years of political attention in this area. Peter F. Hjort made a great effort to arouse the political attention. But I also want to commend the relatives who have shared their bad experiences to prevent the same thing from happening to others. We can be proud that we are among the world's best countries to live in, with health services at the forefront. But we can't be proud of bad health events, of patient injuries and deaths that happen because the systems are too bad, because the technical equipment fails, because drugs are used incorrectly. It's very regrettable that death happens because we don't have the ability to learn from our mistakes. We can't have it that way. Efforts need to be made in a number of areas. Christian People's Party supports the headlines of the big message, including: developing a more active patient and user role and greater transparency. Much of what we're talking about here is about culture. It's a leadership responsibility to create transparency about unfortunate incidents in hospitals. Only then can we learn how to avoid it happening again. The Christian People's Party, together with the other opposition parties in the Committee, also proposes this time that a Health Investigation Commission be set up. Here we have important experience from the accident commission on transport matters, where the main purpose is to have a neutral investigation commission presenting its safety recommendations, advice that can be used in education and prevention. The Health Investigation Commission shall be in addition to the work already carried out by the Health Authority. The Research Commission may also assess the work and role of the Health Authority in the safety work. The Commission shall not take a decision on the liability of individual personnel. It shall continue to be the task of the Health Authority to address and assess possible responses to health professionals. Furthermore, it is time to step up the work on patient safety in municipal health and care services. More and more tasks are being transferred from hospital to municipalities. It is therefore appropriate to investigate the introduction of a notification system for municipal health and care services. Last week’s debate on who is at the forefront of emergency services in our hospitals is also about patient safety. Is there an experienced, well-qualified or newly-trained emergency doctor with an average of six months of experience meeting the patients? Firstly, there must be transparency in this area too from the government and from hospitals about what is the actual situation. How many hospitals only have turnaround candidates in emergency reception and backguards available on the phone, and on which guards? Secondly, we must also dry up the discussion as to whether there is sufficient competence in the hospitals that have such a system. Experience from Denmark shows that the rear guard who is available on the phone was only used for conferences in 6-10 p.m. of the cases. Patient safety in the acute recipients is also about sufficient capacity in the acute recipient. Notices of patients in the corridors, long waiting time before medical attention to patients and accumulation before patients are transferred to bedside are alarming. We want transparency about the situation, and measures on how to organise hospitals to ensure patient safety in the best possible way. There is a cross-political consensus on the broad lines of this Communication, an agreement to bet on quality and patient safety. This is a long-term work that must be carried out continuously, regardless of the batches that occupy the Council of State offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e437	Like many before me, I would like to start by saying that this is an important message about a very important topic. I'd like to commend the government for a good description of the challenges. There is a lot of good suggested in the message. The left also agrees with several of the ten interventions notified by the Minister of Health and Health to provide a better range of services to patients. The most important thing now is to follow up on concrete actions. Norway has a good health system, and there is a lot in the Norwegian health system we can be proud of. For the Left, it is important that public health services provide such good quality and have access to resources that there is no class distinction in terms of healthcare. Equal access to healthcare is an important objective, as it helps to balance social health inequalities. Health services are organised and funded in a way that provides equivalent access to services. The Patient and User Rights Act ensures equal access to good quality services for the general public. However, we know that resource-intensive patients are more easily identified in the system and are better aware of their rights. We know that there are also inequalities in health in Norway. I wish this issue had been discussed more in this big message. It is now six years since the Grand Duchy dealt with its national strategy to address social health inequalities. Patient, President! Left will have a more user-friendly health care system. Then we have to do more than establish a ‘full-time culture’. We need to make sure more flexible tournaments, so that more people can work full time. In addition, we must continuously work for shorter waiting lists, both for diagnosis and treatment. Left wants cancer-specific maximum waiting time limits to be established and will guarantee their follow-up. We will allow evening-open outpatient clinics and open longer hospital opening hours and provide economic incentives to cut waiting time. Quality of health is also about ensuring that we get a wider and better health offer in the community. Therefore, the left wants more resources and increased competence in primary health care, professional strengthening of hospitals and home care and better interaction between hospitals, hospitals and community health services. The left also believes that giving physicians a broader responsibility for following patients, including hospital discharges back to the municipality, will increase patient safety. The left is concerned that we need to focus more on the need for healthcare professionals to have time to administer patient treatment. We are concerned about an increasing documentation and control regime in many parts of the public sector, including in the health sector. A lot of time and forces join the administration and bureaucracy. That is why we have made a proposal in the Chamber today on an independent review of procedures and systems. We want a Commission to review the number of performance targets, laws, regulations and legislation with the aim of reducing unnecessary bureaucracy in specialist health services and in municipal health and care services. I think such a commission of competent persons could make a lot of sense, and I think such a commission could propose important improvements. I think we have until now been too busy with the system and too little concern about how the actors experience the health care system. You ask how patients, doctors, nurses and relatives experience Health-Norway, I think a lot of people will answer that it's too bureaucratic. I think it's thought-provoking. If health professionals spend a little less time on bureaucracy, they will be able to spend more time on the patient, which in turn will increase the quality of treatment. I therefore believe that we need to think through this every time we propose new reporting procedures and documentation requirements. Each of these requirements probably have a good intention, but overall there is too much bureaucracy. Finally, I want to commend the representative Toppe for what she said about openness and transparency culture. Of course, this supports the left up again. Finally, I would like to address the Left's proposal, which is distributed in the Chamber, and I would like to point out that we are going to support the proposals No. One, two, three, six, eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e461	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e464	I think the President should take it as a complement for us to be involved in the debate when he is labeled a 'patient'. It's an expression that we're emphasising that it's the most important person in the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e469	Also, a president can become a patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e472	Yes, and then we are all ready to help. I will also begin by thanking the opposition for being a watchdog for patients and patient rights in public and political debate. That's good, and it seems to sharpen the focus. I would also like to thank the relatives and relatives, and I can assure the representative Olsen that I am meeting many of them. I don't think we should consider it so that different attitudes to individual questions here are based on different views and different encounters with the reality that's out there. There have been some of the strongest meetings I have had as a minister. This is an important day. For the first time, the Stortinget is debating a big message about quality and patient safety, and we all state that Norwegian healthcare is good, that citizens have great confidence, and strong community solutions in municipalities and hospitals contribute to good results. Then we can take steps to say very clearly that we should and will learn from what is not good enough, and use these experiences and knowledge – not to weaken or weaken the community's offer, or to weaken the confidence and momentum of those working in the sector – to strengthen and improve municipalities and hospitals. We want three things through this message: a more user-oriented service increased focus on systematic quality improvement improved patient safety and fewer adverse events I think we're all behind this. The Patient Safety Campaign In Safe Hands was launched by the government in 2011. Halfway through the period, the campaign shows positive results. All hospitals have identified patient injuries, there has been a good response to the campaign collections – I have been on several of them – individual patients have had a better life and avoided harm, and there is improvement in the selected areas of action. But this is about a long-term effort to change culture, attitude and effort down to the smallest detail. We have high ambitions: we need to facilitate even better health and care services and strengthen patient safety work. The quality message shall contribute to this precisely. We are based on the good work that has been done and is in progress, while at the same time raising up key challenges. I am pleased that the Committee endorses the measures set out in the Communication. Let me repeat the most central measures we propose: establish a five-year national patient safety programme establishing a permanent study unit in the State Health Authority to carry out a wide-ranging investigation into the community's follow-up to serious incidents and suspicions of health service offences propose legislative changes in order to strengthen users and relatives' legal position in supervisory matters, carrying out a national test of quality-based funding in the specialist health service developing and publishing several quality indicators exploring the establishment of a national register of municipal health and care services; A Joint Committee is committed to the objective of a more active patient and user role. That's good, and this is best for the patients and all the skilled people who work in this sector. A characteristic of good quality is that the user is at the centre and experiences being cared for, seen and heard. Feedback from patients and users must be actively used to improve offers. Participation can contribute to better results, better use of resources and improved patient safety. Quality should be transparent – even when things go wrong. I have a clear expectation that we are all open about damage and error, and that we systematize learning. Then we're going to take action to avoid the same happening again. Openness may seem brutal, but transparency and systematic knowledge create trust and security over time. Openness is better than disclosure. Security that we have one of the world's best health and care services is what we should strive against. Knowledge of quality and patient safety is important. We need to learn from unwanted events to improve quality. An overall committee agrees with the government to focus much more on quality indicators. This is important in many fields. The Government will set out a plan for priority areas and will provide clear guidance for progress in dealing with such indicators. We're investigating patients' injuries. Notification of adverse events is necessary to learn from errors and better quality. We need to further develop the notification system for the Knowledge Centre, and we are considering extending the system to the entire healthcare system. A first step will be to implement pilots in some municipalities. The government will put in place more measures to ensure better follow-up of events that have led to significant patient injury or unexpected death. We will provide a wide-ranging investigation into how, as a society, we follow up serious incidents and suspicions of crimes in the healthcare sector. I emphasize that this needs to be investigated very thoroughly, because we are dealing here with very serious and important questions. It raises complex ethical, legal and quality issues. Norway does not come out badly in international comparisons. Nevertheless, there are events that make patients and relatives have a legitimate claim that the case is thoroughly investigated, and that someone is held responsible. At the same time, I am concerned – especially after meetings with health professionals – that the solutions we choose, ensure legal certainty, contribute to learning and prevent unnecessary bureaucracy. Such solutions will provide patients with security, providing security and respect for their work to all those working in the sector. Overall, this should create conditions for us to prevent both adverse events and learn from them when they happen. These themes are not suitable for political games, and I hope that the sample will contribute to the widest possible consensus on the approaches to this area. I hope to come back to the reduction of the sample in a very short time. We know that we can do action already now, and we do. I'm impatient in this area. The Serious Occurrence Exclusion Group is replaced by a separate investigative unit of the State Health Authority. It shall be capable of being carried out on an inspection, so that the event is informed as quickly as possible. Particular attention shall be paid to multidisciplinary activities and to strengthening the role of the relatives. The learning aspect here is important. Patients and relatives shall be properly cared for, including in these cases. We propose legislative changes to strengthen the legal position of patients, users and relatives in supervisory matters. We suggest that patients, users and relatives be given the right to access and express their views on such cases, and they should also be informed about what measures the service will take to prevent serious incidents from happening again. The patient safety campaign has good mid-term results, but we see that it takes time to implement and anchor such measures. We therefore propose a five-year patient safety programme to develop the local authority perspective in particular. Let me stress that successful quality work requires that we all work together and play each other well. That is precisely why I believe that Community solutions are good for promoting quality and security. We want hospitals and doctors who work on a team, for the benefit of the patient, without having to compete for different price schemes and without having to compete in a created market. National authorities shall facilitate the overall framework conditions, but quality work must be done out of business, in the day-to-day work at the workplace. Systematic work on quality and patient safety shall be part of the everyday life of supervisors and staff in patient care, as part of the daily routines. Then I come to my end point: Quality and patient safety are and should be even more clearly marked as a management responsibility. It turns out again and again how important management and participation are for good results. The management has the overall responsibility to ensure good and safe services for patients. Systematic quality and patient safety work must be anchored and demanded by managers at all levels, in liaison with all employees. Leaders closest to the patient have a key role, and all employees have to be on the team. They must be inspired. The manager cannot wash the hands of those who work in hospitals, but he must inspire that culture, so that it is owned, so that this becomes a completely natural part of the daily dont. Economic governance and control are an important prerequisite for achieving these objectives of better quality and patient safety work. With financial control, we can give even more attention to the content and quality of services. Hospitals that are out of economic control also remove the focus from these types of important themes. We want to control quality. We want even more to ask for results on quality in the management dialogue with hospitals. But it also gives us politicians a responsibility: we have to provide hospitals and municipalities with resources that are in line with the tasks. Increasing the activity in hospitals without funding, as was done in the past, was not only negative for the hospitals' bottom lines, but it was also negative for patient safety work. In conclusion, I have a clear expectation that the Quality and Patient Safety Scoreboard will help to strengthen and further develop the service, so that patients and users get even better services. There have been reinforced policy lines in health policy lately. That is good for the political debate, but we must also appreciate the political consensus on the measures we have been debating today. I, as Minister of Health, put emphasis on following up this broad consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e553	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e556	In the beginning, I would like to stress once again that we agree very much, and that we are very pleased that this message has come, as I also said in my post. Some of what I addressed, there are many of us who feel, that some of them on the floor, some of them who have the shoes on, who come with strong warnings, don't feel that they're being taken seriously. There was one case in the evening post today about the prematurity department in the Rikshospitalet, which in itself clearly shows that you are concerned about patient safety for the very least, i.e. those born prematurely. This is a good example of the kind of alerts that I believe must be taken seriously. And then I think we have to do something more than just drop a sample, even though it can of course also contribute in the long run. So my question to the government council is, what will he do to make the kind of alerts take more seriously and get concrete activity as a result of the alert?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e565	I believe that this kind of case is an example of things being taken seriously. This is a matter that is now at the County Medical Board’s table and is being addressed by the supervisory authorities to address issues related to whether health law has been properly complied with. There is one case where the hospital management indicates that there is an increase in the number of such children being followed up at Oslo University Hospital, between 10 and 11 p.m. What's the reason for this? Is it because more children survive and can be followed up? There has also been a capacity challenge. I think the hospital manager answers this in his own way. I, the Minister of Health, can at least assure you that this matter has been addressed. The hospital follows the matter up. The supervisory authorities shall follow up the matter. Those who have been alerted and worried about this have had a place to go. This is not a matter for us to talk about patient injury, error or death – and we should be happy about that – but an alarm message. And that alarm messages can be registered, picked up and followed up, is good. That's the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e574	I am very pleased that in this matter we see that there is a broad political majority behind the measures proposed by the government. That is why I was also very surprised when I read the Class Fight on Friday, where the Council of State went to the frontal attack on the NHS Choices quality portal and was alarmed that Erna Solberg had visited England and looked at this work. Among other things, he said:\t\t You ‘The result is that hospitals will clear up and transform into display windows to attract more patients.’ The big message we are dealing with today says: ‘A comprehensive presentation of a range of quality indicators and other quality information should be provided for individual healthcare institutions as a basis for patients and users’ choice of hospitals and hospitals, for example by model NHS choice or Medicares Quality Care Finder.’; What's so daunting about this big message?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e589	The scary thing is, rather, that the class struggle doesn't represent me as a whole, because I am very much in favour of it. And we've learned from that model to be able to outsource these quality indicators. What was my point is that what is now happening in the NHS, in the UK Health Service, is that hospitals are going to open up to 49 p.m., outsource their capacity to private providers and insurance companies. In the logic that then occurs, this becomes with quality and how to present a part of what I'm a little bit acutely called a 'base', where you get an incentive to clear indicators to attract business also on the basis of commercial principles. But the very idea that we use free hospital choice to publish information on waiting times for operations, and can also publish quality indicators within the logic of our healthcare system, I am a member of, and of course I am fully in favour of the big message here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e596	The council said in the same interview: ‘The problem arises when economic stimulus makes it attractive for hospitals to spend more time on the surface than content.’ In this large-scale communication, there is also broad agreement to introduce financial incentives into quality work and reward hospitals that do good quality work, possibly punishing hospitals that do not. Is it not also the same as introducing economic incentives to make themselves attractive to patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e606	Yes, but my answer I think will be along the same lines, which doesn't surprise the representative. It is to put in place an experimental system that makes it economically clear that it must be felt that patient safety is being compromised, that is, that it is making mistakes, and that it is possible to measure quality in relation to effort, that is. that good quality, as seen, should also give an economic outlay, is within the logic of strong Community hospitals. What I'm experiencing is the real change in the NHS system, which, during the years when Margaret Thatcher was in power, largely operated on with the same logic as our health care system, but which is now very clearly put about, is once again this coming up with strong private entries into the NHS, commercial entries, that change a lot of the assumptions for publishing such information. Because then there will be not only factual information for patients, but there will also be marketing information from hospitals that will make money.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e614	In my post I spent a lot of time on bureaucracy and unnecessary reporting. This is also affected, quite a bit in fact, in the big message. So my question is, what kind of projects does the government have to bring down the bureaucracy, and does the Minister of Health think it would have been wise to have an independent commission, as the Left suggests in the Chamber today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e619	That is a very important question, and I commend the representative for putting the search light on it. Let me just take some of the measures. The general is that we include, among other things: manages ICT. That's where we're going. We have provided an ambitious public awareness report on ICT in healthcare, «One citizen – one journal». We need a core file. We're going to have communication between the permanent staff, the primary health service, the community health service and the hospitals. It's a lot of work, and it's hopefully going – we have to follow it carefully – to bring down the bureaucracy. Then, as one of my actions to the hospitals, I have launched a project that follows the intentions of the representative proposed. We go into a representative number of hospitals and monitor reporting. Is it over-reporting, double reporting or bug reporting? As the representative wisely said, all the reporting has probably had a good purpose in the beginning, but in sum it has become too much. We also do that in close contact with employees' organisations, and then we get to sum it up shortly, before the summer, and hope to draw conclusions. A separate commission I think will not be necessary in this way in addition to the measures I have mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e630	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e633	I think we all know someone who has experienced unfortunate events, who has been mistreated or who has otherwise seen the back of healthcare. It's true, as many people have said, that hearing their stories makes a strong impression. Mistreatment is about grief, pain and frustration. It can be dangerous, and trust in health services is at stake. Mishandling is of course the exception, not the rule. All of them, most of them get good treatment and experience Norwegian health services as they are: some of the best in the world. However, the exceptions must be taken seriously. If there is one message that has to hang on after the debate today, it is that the whole Storting is taking patient safety very seriously. For those who get sick or are hurt by being in a hospital, there is no comfort that he or she is one of the few. The main picture, that people encounter high-quality healthcare, does not, and must never, stand in the way of continuous work on quality and patient safety. One important message in the big news is that there should be transparency about quality and about what goes wrong. Openness about damage and defects is not something we can decide here today. It's about culture and leadership, about putting knowledge into a system, and about trust and security. It is quite right, as the Minister of Health has stated, that openness can seem brutal, but what is the alternative? If we're going to learn from unwanted events, and we have to, it has to be openness. And why? Well, for people to get the best services, and for them to feel that it's safe to get treatment. On the part of the Workers' Party, we welcome the measures aimed at ensuring a better follow-up to the events that have led to patient injury and unexpected death. We are also pleased with the legislative changes that strengthen the legal position of patients and their relatives in supervisory matters. Patients and relatives shall be provided with information. They demand that serious cases be carefully investigated and that errors have consequences. At the same time, we must ensure that the solutions we choose ensure the legal certainty of those involved, contribute to learning and prevent unnecessary bureaucracy. Some words about the decision-makers: they're important, they're usually people's first meeting with the health services. Yesterday I visited the National Association for Public Health, which operates the Demens line for relatives. Many of the phones are about frustration in meeting with the board member. It's about knowledge and empathy, but it's also about proper diagnosis. In municipalities with dementia teams with games get 80 pst. by investigators, dementia diagnosis, while only 42 pst. do so when the investigators investigate. The decision-makers are crucial for the quality of the individual patient’s supply. They are the way into the specialist health service and have to play with the public health and care services. Many are satisfied with the fixed medical system, but many are not particularly satisfied with their own regularity. It's often about availability and service: I get an hour when I need it, she talks to me, or she sees into the screen. Does she really see me and understand what I need? Does she see the whole human being? The new statutory regulation clarifies the responsibilities of the municipality and the local authority and defines some quality requirements. That's good! Increased use of self-service solutions and new technologies can be some of the answers and provide both patients and doctors with a simpler everyday life. Without a well-functioning fixed medical system, we will not succeed in improving quality and patient safety. Norwegian health services shall be of good quality, accessible within a reasonable waiting period, and people shall be provided with assistance and treatment, irrespective of background and place of residence. We have largely achieved these objectives in Norway. But our good health services can be even better. Often, quality is about simple grip. The notes refer to surgical checklist tests, which have shown that injuries can be largely prevented by surgery. Making use of such tools should be a matter of course. In other areas, more is required — cultural changes and systems that make us learn from mistakes. The Labour Party is committed to developing Norwegian public health services from being among the best in the world to being the best. We are concerned with quality and patient safety because it is important for the patient, not as an argument to replace a solid public offer with commercial offers. We record that patient injuries, hospital infections and misuse of medicines are being used in the fight for the commercialisation of healthcare. That's a shame, because mistakes are wrong. We have to take them, and we take them very seriously. But there is nothing, absolutely nothing, that suggests that there will be more mistakes in public health services than in private – on the contrary!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e652	Our already good health and care services can be even better. I am pleased that we are now discussing patient safety and quality in a big message, and that even more good measures are coming up, so that we can get even better. When we talk about patient safety and quality, we often talk about forms to be submitted or completed, registrations to be made – and reports on your and your date. It is clear that this has to be done, and that is absolutely necessary. But I'm concerned about who's going to do it, who's going to improve that quality and provide good patient safety. Those who have the first meeting are those who can prevent infection and put in place wrong or correct measures. Every day there are errors in the Norwegian health care system. Some errors have minor consequences, others have consequences that are large and profound to the person or persons involved. It also has consequences for the person who makes the mistake. We never get a health care service where it's not done wrong. It's people who treat people, often in stressed and stressed situations, and we can fail. There must also be no fear of failure, so that we don't do things. However, all errors can be good learning, and they can be better next time. In order to avoid this as much as possible, skills and skills building for employees at all levels are important, from the unskilled assistant to the doctor and the director, as demonstrated by the Council of State. The red-green government has been committed to building skills and several hands at work, in particular in the municipal care services. The Competence Commitment 2015 has given many employees new new knowledge. Dementia's ABC has strengthened the quality of dentures, and teaching homes have given increased competence in municipalities and strengthened home morbidity by investing in knowledge and education, because both in municipalities and in hospitals, patient safety and quality are right to strengthen. Many municipalities offer unskilled training as skilled workers, as my own municipality, Larvik, has done through the TOP project. They have trained many health professionals and improved service quality. The MICS project, another Larvik action, recruits from foreign-language unskilled people who can join the TOP project afterwards and become health professionals. In this way, municipalities can increase the quality of patient provision and increase the number of skilled people at the same time. I have been concerned that health professionals should not be able to go around different countries and treat patients if they have made serious mistakes in their service. It's poor patient safety. Therefore, in 2011, I proposed to introduce an electronic register in the Nordic Council of Ministers, where health professionals with comments could be listed, for example. whether they had lost the authorisation, or whether they had made serious errors in the service. We've seen more examples of this happening, and it's beyond patient safety. Often, there is a lack of health professionals, a rapid checkout of references or poor references. It's affecting the patient. There are some challenges to getting such a register, including: different legislation and authorisation requirements. But I now know that in the EU, on the initiative of the Swedish authorities, such a system is being worked on. I hope that Norway will take part in this, and that it will not only get a register in the Nordic context, but also in Europe. We have a great health care system with a lot of nice people doing their best every day. We need to build on that and find good solutions that make our health care system even better. Quality and patient safety are going to be continuous work, because none are infallible. As I said earlier, errors are still going to happen. However, with the measures in the Single European Act and the measures proposed in the course of the debate, we are going to be even better. Patient safety and quality are going to be even better in the Norwegian health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e665	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e668	On the NRK pulse yesterday, we could follow Thor Kristian Fossveit. He was transplanted after a year of waiting. After he became lung disease in 2008, he had frequent pneumonia, often once a month. He had to go to a hospital every time. It was great to follow the operation and see the quality we have in the Norwegian health care system. But he wasn't finished after the operation. Afterwards, a long training period was expected. Then he got help from the Norwegian health service. I was completely imprisoned in front of the TV as we could follow this process. It's impressive to see the quality we have in Norwegian hospitals. Seeing that the lungs were filled with air by means of skillful hands – from world-class top professionals – was beautiful. The other thing I'm thinking about is when someone needs help, we don't ask about insurance or personal finances. This is the Community's way of taking responsibility for each other. I find it alarming and disappointing that the opposition does not recognise this, and that even the initial comments in the vote cannot be included, which says that the majority believe Norway has good health and care services thanks to strong Community solutions. Not long ago I visited the Hospital Levanger, which has just opened a new intensive care unit in Norway. There is a great investment willingness in Norwegian hospitals because they now keep profits and use them for investments where they see needs. It is not related to the picture the Progress Party is trying to paint in this debate too, where it is claimed that this government does not listen to professionals. We see increased investment, we see increased quality, we see clearer governance, and that gives us all greater security. We have many unfortunate events – 1,000 deaths and many injuries. Openness about this is important because it concerns us all. The Council of State is doing well what I want to say is an impressive pace. Per Arne Olsen is trying from this pulpit to try to ridicule the management tools we have. It's not very impressive. He claims he's concerned about action – but what kind of action? The most obvious distinction we see between the red-green and the right is that we want from the right to move money from public health to private actors. It will also lead to the transfer of competences to private individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e679	When the undersigned and the representative Per Arne Olsen had consultation with the user organisations in the field of mental health, one of the participants told about their experience. He had been in psychosis and described it as something that to him was a spiritual experience, where he felt close ties to nature. What he was met with was a health care system with coercive and medicaments. It was wrong for him. He's one of the users in mental health protection who's been behind a drug-free package. He wants to have greater user involvement in the treatment. In fact, many of our encounters with those who are vulnerable to disease have been marked by stories where they want to increase their influence on how to live with their own condition, and how to treat them. Some of what they address is the desire to be treated with dignity. The notification sets out the objective of the government to develop a more user-oriented health and care service. The need for patients, users and relatives shall be the starting point for decisions and actions. Users shall be protected, seen and heard. This must be more than just words – and I know it is for the Minister of Health. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has provided the basis for an active user role at both levels in the services through laws, communications, guides, mission documents and guidelines. The message focuses on a more active patient and user role as a central element of quality work. This means facilitating the user/patient’s active intervention on their own recovery process and on their own life situation. This in turn presupposes that users and handlers are involved in an equivalent cooperation where the values, experiences and professional knowledge of the user go hand in hand. Such a change requires conversion and training in new forms of work, including through grants to, inter alia: user organisations, self-help and the Help Toolkit. With these measures, the government helps to strengthen the user perspective in the field of mental health protection. Even though a lot has been improved, we're not in the goal. While user involvement at the level of the system is well established, it is a long way to go before users are always really involved at individual level in meeting the services. That's the stories we hear. The concrete work to change this and thus improve the quality of the service must be done in the establishments. Systematic quality work is a responsibility for managers at all levels of services, and it is good that the Council of State has given clear governance signals to regional health companies to do so. This results in dignity and involvement and greater patient safety in the field of mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e690	Today, we are addressing a very important message summarising the systematic efforts of this government to improve quality, improve patient safety and reduce adverse health incidents. To achieve this, the government has taken many steps, including:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t emphasising a more active patient and user role more transparency on quality and patient safety specific requirements for better quality in services introduction of new and safe treatment methods. In order to strengthen quality and safety work, a national patient safety unit was established by the National Health Knowledge Centre in 2007. The National Patient Safety Campaign In safe hands, which started in 2011, appears to have produced good results and will continue. This government is the first to really put patient safety on the agenda. A little was done before the red-green government started its work. For example, the previously mentioned Peter F. Hjort’s report on patients’ injuries came as early as 2003, without the then bourgeois government taking special initiatives. I am therefore pleased with the systematic work that is now being done. The quality work must be fattened widely. The health sector must aim at ensuring good quality of services, be available within a reasonable waiting period, and provide health care to all, regardless of social background and place of residence. Norwegian healthcare is very good at international measurements on treatment quality. Now we are introducing measures that can further strengthen quality work. I would like to mention in particular the big message about the government's ICT strategy, which was recently presented in Stortinget, a message that has also been very well received in all parts of the health sector. The strategy described here will provide the whole healthcare sector with new, effective ICT tools for safe and secure communication. I am convinced that the only thing that can fully secure Norwegian patients and users is strong Community solutions. The public health and care sector must define the use of resources and be the main provider of services to the Norwegian people. I have noted for the most part that the right parties are in favour of a model of widespread privatisation and commercialisation of the care sector, a policy that all research and experience shows provides worse and more expensive services in the long term in those countries that have tried out such policies. In addition, the same batches will introduce offer-driven hospital services, with the freedom of establishment for private commercial operators, which will be able to send the bill freely to the public – without any prior agreement on what to do and where to do it. It will involve fragmentation of services, increase red tape and make overall capacity and quality control more difficult. I am simply concerned about how the patient safety we all want can be ensured under such a regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e716	The representative Knutsen continues his reconstruction and misrepresentation of the Right's proposal for free treatment. Repeatedly she repeats it in different contexts, and it's just before she brings out the guitar and tone her post. I guess there won't be any bestseller – but they just get to keep going. What the right is concerned about is keeping track of the values of everyone's right to the same health service, regardless of the economy. It's an important part of the Nordic model. Then we need to apply new ideas and better solutions. Why should not all those who have been assessed as entitled to the necessary health care have the same possibility as those who have health insurance to choose also private offers? Membership in popular security should be enough – the public must pay. We have to use the free capacity of the ideal and private to bring down health cows and waiting time. Then the need for health insurance disappears, and people can choose – regardless of the thickness of their wallet. Of course, the right-hand side does not believe – and the positioning parties do – that patients should define their own needs for treatment, and that thus private individuals can create a need by making the patient feel sick. The decision is, and shall be, the first gatekeeper of the specialist health service. The reference must come from there. The assessment of the referral must take place within the current framework, both as regards the prioritisation rule and as regards who can assess it. However, once the patient has been judged to need the necessary health care – groups 1 and 2 – the patient must be free to choose treatment at all approved treatment institutions. The institution must do so within the price fixed by the public authority. Neither the individual nor society has anything to spare for patients waiting to be granted their right to treatment. Individuals lose quality of life, society misses the individual’s work. One may need home help and feel that health is deteriorating in other areas — so that one becomes even more in need of help. This is the Right's proposal on the free choice of treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e729	It was Per Arne Olsen's post that made me draw again. I think it is important in this debate that we find a balance between taking mistreatment very seriously and recognising that Norwegian health services are doing very well, and that people have good reason to be safe. I don't think the representative Olsen completely found that balance, he drew a very dark picture of Norwegian healthcare – an image that is wrong. In addition, he minimizes the risk of over-treatment. In the notes, the majority refers to studies from the United States that suggest that 30 pst. of all health costs arising from over-treatment. Overtreatment increases the cost of health care, but in the worst case it can also harm the health of the patient. We must have a conscious relationship with both under-use, mistreatment and over-use. The Labour Party believes that the knowledge from the United States is directly relevant in the discussion on the commercialisation of Norwegian hospitals. There is reason to believe that over-treatment becomes a major problem the greater the benefits of profit-driven health systems, where health providers have a self-interest in providing the patient with a high level of treatment. The risk of overtreatment is probably an argument against the commercialisation of Norwegian health services. First of all, good quality is important for the patient. At the same time, good quality can also be a good economy, including in healthcare. Medical injuries, misdiagnosis, hospital infections, unnecessary complications, re-operations and poor work processes must be taken seriously because they are patients, but also because they may be large cost drivers. Each hospital infection involves an average of four days of prolonged hospitalisation. Finally, a quality health and care service is about the quality of each measure, but also about a whole that contributes to the greatest possible year of life with good health. On Friday the morning news came about tomorrow's care, and the public health report was announced on the first Friday. These two messages and the one we are dealing with today add together the basis for a further development of the welfare state based on solid Community solutions. In contrast to the representative, Sjöli, I would like to hear the toned version of Tove Karoline Knutsen's posts, and I notice that it will be a hit on 9 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e750	It's a little short of time for this melody and the composition to be finished, but it's possible that it will come. Right, you have to be honest with me. The lot has not only established what they call free choice of treatment, the lot has established that they want free right of establishment. Those who are out in all countries and positioning themselves in relation to it are the major commercial health groups with the address tax havens. It is those who are now looking for new markets for their investments, and they have a goal – it is very clear – and there is the most return on each invested krone. I'm not going to criticize them for that, it must be allowed when you run the store, but I'm criticising the Right for sending a torpedo into the Norwegian health sector and into the community solutions that I thought we were all in favour of. Thus, the establishment, once again according to the Right Programme, should take place where the operators will – which will favour the most populous areas – in the healthcare and treatment methods they want and without prior agreement with political decisions or public actors. It has the Right Repeated Times time and time again, and I can't believe you can't be honest enough to say that. This will lead to the depletion of public resources. It's not like we have a whole army of people – skilled people – who are just waiting to get «toge» into the private hospitals. They must be taken from the public. I look very dark on the situation of the part of the country I come from, which will not be the favorite part of the country for those who are going to make the most money. Right-wing solutions will lead to greater inequalities between regions and parts of the country and between different patient groups, and I don't want that kind of health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e759	Let me continue a little bit where Tove Karoline Knutsen ended. I am also fascinated by this discussion, and I hear that Sonja Irene Sjøli uses the wording ‘the’ available capacity – as if there should be no growth on the offer page. There is something there today that is private, and it is ‘it’ that is now to be exploited. I believe, like Tove Karoline Knutsen, that here there is a free right of establishment that will be established – in the same way that we have discussions about school. In the case of private schools, it may also be considered that there should be only a small opportunity to get some private providers in addition, but by reintroducing this law, there will in practice also be a free right of establishment – with certain opportunities to ‘shut’ a little from the county, but no longer. So there's a discussion about funding, and then it's nice to invite those who are in this room today to hear a little bit about how we have that discussion about funding the local government sector, because there the Progress Party says the same thing as the Right now says here, that the citizen, the user, is going to be 100 pst. State-funded, he/she shall be able to report his/her needs — within school, kindergarten, health, elderly care or whatever it may be — and that need shall be satisfied and it shall be automatically paid by the State. There's a lot of protesting right there. It gives Right full power to the provider – the municipality – and believes that the red-green government gives the municipality too little freedom of sea to decide what kind of offer to give to its inhabitants and users. In the municipal funding debate, the Right Party and the Progress Party are in fact counter-polar. They clearly agree on this and choose the Advance Party solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e766	Let me start by following up the representative Hagen by saying that choosing the Advance Party solution is largely a good choice, and I can recommend that more people do it both in terms of municipal policy and in terms of health policy. The reason I asked for the word is not just to comment on the musical skills of the representative Knutsen. I'm not sure, no matter how tone-setting, that this is going to be her biggest hit, and I'm not sure that it's going to be gamers' prize – until that she's made too good things before. I asked for the word because both the representative Haugli and the representative Stokkan-Grande were inside my post and gave the impression that I painted a black picture. I actually used the first three minutes of my post to boast of the message and of what the government has proposed. It may seem that there was a certain selective hearing out and went. But then I presented a picture of some of the challenges facing the Norwegian health care system, and there were direct quotes from this message and the setting we are dealing with today – both the risk of infection, drug use, the patient study that showed poor scores in waiting times, information, coordination, etc. All I read is actually things from the setting itself – which we all share. There's one of the challenges here; that we're actually going to tackle those things that don't work so well in the Norwegian health care system. We agree that very much is good, but we're going to do something about what needs to be taken care of. I am not aware that I have drawn an image that is not correct, I am trying to draw a picture of the challenges facing the Norwegian health care system, which we should all address in this room. Then I have allowed myself to point out that the biggest challenge in Norwegian health care is not over-use or over-treatment – no matter what the US report says – but with over 250,000 people in line for treatment in this country, and that those in line are standing longer than ever, I do not think our main focus should be to over-treat patients. I'm pretty sure there's a lot we can do. It will reduce patient injuries, it will also result in people coming back from hospitals, and it will be a good policy for this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e775	I do not want to accuse my colleagues of being thin, but I am a little surprised that it is not possible to grasp and hear what is in the Right proposal. I understand that it is soon a choice, and that they have an interest in both exaggerating and misinforming about the Right proposal. But what may surprise me most is that they have so little faith in public health that they believe that both professionals and patients will flee the public health system if a free treatment option is established, because that must be what it contains. I can try to repeat: the patients should not define their own needs, and: the private should not be able to create a need by making the patients feel sick. The decision is and shall be the first gatekeeper of the specialist health service. The reference must come from there and the assessment of the reference must take place within the current framework, both as regards the prioritisation rule and as regards who can assess it. However, once the patient has been judged to be in need of necessary health care, the patient must be free to choose treatment in all approved treatment institutions, for it must be approved by the public, and it must be made at the price set by the public. I also repeat that neither the individual nor society has anything to spare on the fact that patients have to wait for their rights – their sun - to be assessed, according to the priority regulation, as to whether they have a right to treatment. It is better that they get treatment and get back to work, get back to a everyday life. We are going to discuss rehabilitation later here today. There I have understood that the government is in favour of free rehabilitation options, so what's the difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e784	It is easy to agree on the examples used by Per Arne Olsen, but the difference is that we use this to strengthen the Norwegian health system, while Per Arne Olsen and the Progress Party use this as examples of why we want to remove essential aspects of the Norwegian model – that is the big difference. The representative, Sjeli, thought that Tove Karoline Knutsen should find out the guitar and tone his message. There's not enough guitar in here, here we have to go with the trombone. Firstly, the right-hand side does not share the good quality objectives of red-green services, are available within a reasonable waiting time, and offers are to be reached to all regardless of social background and place of residence. Secondly, the proposals that will suck funds and competences from public hospitals and transfer them to the private sector are promoted. The funds will be moved over, and where will the staff come from? Well, there will be people working in public health today. Thirdly, when we connect this with the right-hand proposals on tax cuts and a model of local economy, it is so serious that we have to say from. It doesn't give people more security. It does not give freedom to everyone. First and foremost, it gives freedom to those who have the resources. It would have been okay if the right-hand side were honest that that's what it actually wants: Increase differences and, above all, freedom for the few resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e791	Patient safety work in Norway is progressing and is now faster than in the past. On 19 April 2010, this representative had an interview with the Minister of Health on the subject. The background for the interpellation was that the situation of unfortunate events had been known for ten to fifteen years, but the great community had put a collective veil over this. In no other field of service, new and stronger efforts could save more lives than right here. We have so much knowledge of how to do it, but there are also some very demanding target conflicts. We know that high error reporting allows learning and less damage. We also know that mistakes trigger our culture's reaction and punishment reflex. It's very understandable in many contexts, but it's not compatible with a high reporting frequency. That's why it's important that we now take time and do the broad analysis of how society is going to follow up serious events. In my opinion, there is a lot of policy on patient safety, but I also believe that there is more cross-policy than anything else. That's why I want to acknowledge the fine contribution of the Christian People's Party representative. I agree. This is so important that we have to have long-term. We need to build safety for patients with stones, and patient safety is a very good area for cross-political cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e798	With regard to the main issue today, I would like to say, for my part and on behalf of the government, that I am satisfied with the debate we have had on patient safety, and with the consensus that it is about the measures we have proposed. There is disagreement about the weighting of some of the measures. We're taking that with us, and I'm choosing to interpret it as a slightly different approach to the same ambition. Here we get a good basis for further work, in particular the work that has been pointed out by several people, to follow up the health care that is in the municipalities. There's still a lot of work to be done, and we're going to follow it up in cooperation with them. Then I would like to tell the representative, Sjöli, that I do not think the representative should assume that we are thinner, or that we have problems understanding. The questions that we have allowed ourselves to ask about the proposal on the free choice of treatment are not questions that we dictate politically. I respect and believe that these proposals are being promoted by the Right because they believe that it is good for patients, that it is good for the healthcare system, and that it is good for the future offers. I'll take that into account. But it is not just the opposition who questions what this scheme involves. There are a lot of professionals who also do, from health economists to those I meet in many hospitals. They ask questions about the order of priority. What will be the reality of the priority that will really happen when you can look up a private offer for the individual suffering and push the less simple ones down the list? What is the cost of all this? It is very unclear, and I also understand that the Right is unclear. What will be the consequences for health professionals? I think health professionals are well off in public hospitals, but it is clear that when private services are set up, things can happen with both pay and working conditions, which we already see in several fields, and which can affect it. The situation in our major hospitals is that personnel are a critical factor in several areas. And what is the consequence of that representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, saying about the distribution around the country? What parts of the country is this going to be relevant for? The last question is: should you put a line in a way and say "offer of the day"? Often it is said that all good forces should contribute, and it sounds like a pleasant virtue in the community, but it must be right for others to establish and provide services for the established rights of patients from hospitals, and see it as a market. That's the sum of all of this that allows us to ask critical questions about what it will do to the Norwegian health care system, about the equivalence of the Norwegian health care system and about the position of the public hospitals, which will pay for all of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e807	It's like it's a little reverse: the government asks and asks and the Right answers and answers, but it doesn't seem like the answers go completely in. This gives us – both the Minister of Health and the undersigned – ample opportunity to discuss this in a separate seminar on Thursday, and then we may reach out with some of the answers. What is at least important is that the right does not propose a model where the individual patient should be able to choose to go to a private hospital without referral being assessed by the public system. Neither are those who have commercial interests that determine patients' rights. So this system is significantly different from the system in the United States, which is drawn out as a scare image here. And that's what the whole Right point is: we believe that the priority should be given when the patient is granted a right. If then the Workers' Party wants a discussion with the Right on today's priority rule, if the content of it is not good enough to ensure a good priority, then put the Right in such a discussion at any time, for this we believe is an important discussion. I have also registered that the government has set down a separate sample to look at this, and it fully supports the Right. The challenge of over-treatment is also a challenge in today’s system. All the data we have on over-treatment from Norway are based on the fact that this is within a public system, where we see a significant variation between different public hospitals in the treatment of the same disorders. And there is reason to ask questions about – is it the commercial interests of Health Leader that make them operate considerably more shoulders than Health Stavanger? No, there are differences in professional judgement, for example. Therefore, this is a fundamental problem related to patient safety and quality, which we have to address, regardless of whether or not we have a system of free choice of treatment, and whether or not we have a whole public health system, for which no parties are in favour, or whether or not we are opening up to something more private, for which the Right is in favour. We have to do this by looking at what creates this inequality in the professional assessment, regardless of whether it is public or private. Then, of course, it is also important to ensure the quality of the private services that will be established — and that are established. That is also why the Right Party and the Advance Party today are opposed to what the Red-Green Government is for, namely a free-flow of the establishment of private specialists and hospitals, where a system of approval for them is being removed, while the Right Party and the Advance Party today are proposing to establish a new and improved authorisation system, precisely to ensure the quality of private offers, while the Red-Green Government is in favour of a release of the establishment of private hospitals in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e818	Now I was very concerned not to take the floor, but I have a comment to make on just the last one: Speaking of being thin etc., I can only cancel the representative's impression, which he might have got, that we are in favour of a release of the establishment of private providers. The question we have raised is whether this authorisation system we have today is an appropriate instrument for what it should be, namely ensuring quality in all health services in the country. I record that a part that establishes a private hospital comes and says that here is the approval stamp from the department – we are like everyone else. But what I'm registering is that we have a wide range of tools to control, monitor and approve morbidity practices in Norway. And we're going to review this, we're going to make sure that the population can be safe. So I think – to be a little sharp – that's what's closest to the representative's heart, that's a freeze of private offerings. It does not come as a result of actions from us; it may have to be as a result of another majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e823	I base my opinion on a bill that is under consideration in the committee, where the government is calling for the abolition of today's approval system for private hospitals. It shall be replaced by the conclusion of agreements with health-care establishments — those to receive public reimbursement, of course, as today — and otherwise they shall be able to exercise supervisory powers as such. However, this means that private commercial hospitals can establish themselves in Norway without having been assessed by the public in advance, without having satisfied any quality requirements. I agree with the Minister of Health that the current authorisation system is not good enough, but the answer to this is not to abolish the authorisation system, but to strengthen the authorisation system, precisely to ensure the quality of the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e831	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e845	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e854	The proposal by the representatives of the Grand Duchy of Horne, Kjønaas Kjos, Thomsen and Korsberg concerns amendments to the Law of 2 June 1989 No. 27 on the marketing of alcoholic beverages n.e.c. – opening hours and sales in connection with public holidays. The case rapporteur would like to start by thanking him for a good cooperation in a straightforward matter. The matter is therefore a legislative change to extend the opening time of Polish days before public holidays and election days. In the strictest sense, the law can open the door to open all days between noon. 8.30 and 18.00 – also on Sundays. The proposal is divided into two parts: the Right Party and the Progress Party have one joint proposal, proposing to limit the days to which the law applies, and the Progress Party has one proposal to open free opening hours, but which they want the Ministry to decide. A majority of the Committee – the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People’s Party – is concerned that alcohol is not an ordinary product and agrees that the Polish regime has great legitimacy in the population. The Pole maintains important restrictions on alcohol policy, and, as the letter to the Council of State Gahr Støre states, there is a strong consensus in all disciplines that limiting availability is the best and most effective instrument in alcohol policy. The same majority also refers to the drug report See me!, which we have just discussed. The Progress Party, which is the proposer, considers that it is not right to regulate the opening hours of the legislation in detail and that the Ministry can and should determine this since the State is the owner. I expect that they will present, and promote, their proposals. When it is proposed to attach the proposal to the Minutes, it is also because we do not have the tradition of dealing with legislative changes in representatives' proposals. Law changes should have their usual round of hearings and recordings, as we tend to. It is important that both the industry and the organisations are heard before making any changes to our laws. For the Workers' Party, the national meeting on the weekend has adopted a formulation of the programme to change the Polish opening hours on days before public holidays and on days such as Christmas Eve, New Year's Eve and on election day. It's because we think it's right to look at the opening hours in light of the time we live in. It is important that the pole is modern in order to maintain the legitimacy and the connection that the pole actually has. We are very pleased that the pole has the great legitimacy, but we know that a restriction of opening hours is a rather old arrangement. It was done for an alcohol policy reason, where reduced availability would reduce consumption. There were also quite a few fewer poles just a few years ago, which this government has changed. The question is whether it has the same effect today as when the law was introduced. The pole and the media remind each time that there are closed doors on certain days, and we have established poles in many shopping malls that have otherwise opened these days. It only irritates them that they are closed. I don't think there's any popular demand for extended opening hours, but I think it's either a bit of irritation that might irritate people. We want the pole to be a modern service offer where people trade alcohol. They must have service and good reputation, as they have today. When the Workers' Party decided to make this change this weekend, it was because we have listened to our members outside. Therefore, I am very surprised if the change does not come anyway, even if we do not adopt it here today – but then as an ordinary legal process, where we hear those who are involved, where the industry and the organisations are allowed to express themselves before we possibly adopt a change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e875	This proposal for a representative proposes modernising and adapting the opening hours of the wine monopoly, so that they are in line with the legitimate expectations of the people. This is a proposal that has also been addressed by the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, but in the media. Today, they're going to vote it down. The proposal concerns that the wine monopoly on days in advance of public holidays may have a normal opening time. The Health Minister said in his reply of 15 February that it would be inconsistent to open up wine sales etc. from the wine monopoly on Sundays and public holidays when the grocery trade cannot sell beer these days. We agree with that, and that is why we are not proposing this either. I actually thought that those who were most keen to maintain today's wine monopoly system, saw the need for the Vinmonopoly to have legitimacy in the population. The wine monopoly has a lot of it today, but many put question marks about opening hours in front of holidays. So the proposal that the Progress Party is promoting today does not suggest that the Wine Monopoly should be kept open on public holidays, but that you should be able to have normal opening time the day before. The representatives of the government parties, through the examination of the case, have tried to create the impression that this proposal goes beyond what it actually does. I don't think that's necessary and sometimes unnecessary to do that. The Progress Party will in principle remove monopolies, but we believe that as long as they are there, it is essential that they function optimally. In the last ten years, we've seen almost an explosion in the number of outlets in the Vinmonopole. We've also seen a formidable growth in self-regulated poles. Today there is hardly a single pole that is not self-serviced. In addition, it is increasingly better to shop at the Vinmonopolet via the online store and get the goods delivered on the doorstep. Our proposal today is a continuation of the development of all parties on the Stortinget have both accepted and applauded, and in line with political signals from most. This is another policy area where the Progress Party first goes, and where the other parties will come after, as Sonja Mandt also underlined in his statement. I am addressing the proposals made by the Progress Party alone or together with the Right in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e892	The representative of Kjønaas Kjos then brought up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e895	The right considers that the wine monopoly is an important mechanism as an alcohol policy instrument in Norway. There is good evidence for this. The monopoly system also depends on its being built up in the people, and on its functioning as a good service institution for those who want the products of the wine monopoly. That is why the modernisation of the wine monopoly that we have seen in recent years has been a crucial factor in maintaining the legitimacy of the wine monopoly as an alcohol policy instrument. Had people remained in line at the Vinmonopolet with the lua in hand and had to trade goods over the counter and tried to pronounce difficult French names, I also think it would have been more difficult to defend the wine monopoly with regard to what the voters actually want. This proposal is, in our opinion, an important and correct step in the further work, so that people do not experience the frustration of meeting closed doors at the Vinmonopolet while at the same time buying beer at the store on days when people are used to it, for example. Pentecost night or Easter night. That's also why the right has raised this change several times. We are pleased that it looks like there is a broad political majority for it, but we believe that this is something the Greatness could have done already today with the proposal that has been promoted here. It would be a simple change of law, because this is not a complicated problem. We still believe that the law must state when the wine monopoly is to be closed, and that there is a question that belongs here in the Stortinget, not to create uncertainty about the opening hours of the wine monopoly – that one, for example. want an open-air pole or equivalent. That's why the Right over a long time has worked for this, and we hope that it can now be implemented quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e904	The progress batch proposes to give the Vinmonopole the opportunity to sell alcohol every day from 1:00 p.m. 08.30 to 08.30 6:00 p.m. On the right, the Progress Party has been granted an exception on Sundays and holidays and May 1st and 17th. They think that the supply and demand are better suited than the law to regulate opening hours. They think it has to be up to the Wine Monopoly, even though they see it as commercially appropriate to exploit the space for action that this amendment provides to expand the opening hours. So taking into account people's health is not the Right Party and the Progress Party are concerned that the Wine Monopoly is going to do, and here we're fundamentally disunity. I refer to the Minister of Health's response to the committee, which I think is very good. It's made clear. Alcohol is not a regular commodity. The WHO notes that alcohol is the second largest risk factor for disease burden in Europe. Injury is not limited to the active user, but also to relatives, third parties and society. Passive drinking is a big problem. The majority of the harm caused by alcohol consumption does not account for the large drinkers, but for the large proportion of the population who occasionally drank. We must have a solid but restrictive alcohol policy. The restrictive policy is based on damage and problems caused by the large majority. As a society, we need to look not only at what we are to have freedom to, but also at freedom from. A large part of the population is satisfied with the wine monopoly system as it is today. The Progress Party’s primary proposal will imply that the Vinmonopolet will sell alcohol Saturdays and Sundays throughout the year, and all weekends. So it's more liberal than the beer shop. So they're going to leave the department to decide the actual opening hours, and it's a little paradox that while the Right Party and the Advance Party will let the municipalities regulate the municipal donations, they're going to leave the Vinmonopolis's opening time to the health bureaucrats. The argument for liberalizing opening hours is that today's salsa restrictions are perceived as uri-mal, and that people are frustrated when they meet a connected door. My question is, is it actually so untimely? There are probably many who thought it would be okay if it was open on New Year's Eve and Christmas Eve, but I also think many very well manage to adapt to the arrangements that are. It's a little bit about what we're going through and out of fronts like elected representatives, what other people of power are doing, what kind of debate we're creating on this, and whether we're problematicating the system that is. The second argument to use is that if you open a pole at Christmas Eve, you don't do anything from or to. But how can we know that, and how can one prove that the opposite does not happen? This is contrary to what is the basic principle of our alcohol policy, namely that reducing availability actually means something. I thought it was great that the pole closed Christmas Eve, and I thought it was great that politicians, among other things. The Minister of Health and the Minister of Childhood, before Christmas, pointed out that there was an abuse of alcohol at Christmas, for the sake of children. Blue Cross tells us that 200,000 children in Norway work for Christmas because of their parents ’ drug abuse. But the point is that it's pretty good political to stand up for Christmas and talk about them, but these kids don't disappear to New Year's – they're still there until Easter. So I thought it was a little inconsistent in that debate. In the context of the news we just adopted, we adopted a long-term goal of reducing alcohol use in society. The question is whether we believe that expanding the Vinmonopoly’s opening hours will help to reduce alcohol consumption in society, which is the political goal. We often discuss liberalising, but very rarely do we discuss concrete restrictive objectives in alcohol policy. In the previous case here in Stortinget, we discussed quality and patient safety. Then there was a discussion that there were many more people who died of hospital losses than who died in traffic. But there are twice as many people who die of direct alcohol damage than die of traffic damage. In traffic, we see speed limits down as a measure against traffic death. We also need some brakes in alcohol policy, and I think it is a political responsibility. To the representative of Kjönnaas Kjos, the centre party has not accepted this. Our representatives have said so, but we have just had a national meeting where this has not actually been discussed at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e953	First of all, I would like to say a thousand thanks to my co-representative Kjersti Toppe for a very good and meaningful article. For the Christian People's Party, the monopoly of wine is an important arrangement. It is an important alcohol policy measure to reduce alcohol consumption. As the Stortinget decided a few weeks ago, it is a long-term goal that we should reduce alcohol use in the country. We know that increased availability leads to increased consumption. There's been a lot of research. Therefore, the Christian People's Party is skeptical and skeptical about extending the opening time of the Wine Monopoly, which is an important institution. Governmental Council The views of the Committee that alcohol is not an ordinary product and that alcohol use has a number of adverse effects are important points to include in this debate. In the Christian People's Party we have a solidarity Russian policy. We want to stand shoulder to shoulder with those who are struggling, and that we others have to take them into account. I think the Vinmonopole works well for the majority of the population. I think it's been doing it for years. It shows some of the digestion of the Vinmonopoly system. I also think that most people who want to have a dinner with alcohol are able to get that alcohol into the house before dinner is to be bought, even with today's opening hours. This is about whether we should have a comprehensive alcohol policy and take seriously the positions the Committee has discussed; that we want to reduce alcohol consumption in the long term among the population. Then we have to see this in a complete picture of the opening hours of the Vinmonopoly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e966	Alcohol is undoubtedly the drug that causes the most harm. Discussions about the harm and consequences of drugs tend to focus on drugs, and it is easy to resort to public health measures that are widely agreed on. As a society, I think we can't just look at what we're going to have freedom to – it's also about what we can have freedom from. Alcohol consumption has consequences for people other than those who drink — we know, for example. a number of children suffer from the use of alcohol by their parents. We discussed this in great detail in the debate on the report on drugs. Long weekends and holidays have traditionally been family gatherings. I believe that we need to consider carefully whether to open up the sale of spirit drinks in relation to such days. Alcohol is not an ordinary commodity, and excessive use causes harm — for individuals, families and society at large. That's why we can't leave the regulation of alcohol sales to market forces, as if this were any other product that didn't have to absorb us. As a society, as a community, we have the responsibility to limit the extent of damage by limiting its availability. It's about social responsibility. The majority of the harm caused by alcohol use is not caused by heavy drinking, but by the large proportion of the population who occasionally drink. It is widely documented, it is internationally recognised, and we have experienced it in Norway. What has the best effect is action at population level, such as the licensing system, restrictions on sales times and sales days, monopolies, etc. This is well documented. That is why we need to build on and focus on these measures. Small changes in policies, which in themselves may seem sensible, need to be considered as part of a comprehensive policy where instruments complement and reinforce each other. On this basis, and as I have also written to Stortinget, I would like to sum up by saying that I believe this proposal goes too far. What the representative of Kjønaas Kjos says is well said – it is important to ensure that the wine monopoly retains its legitimacy. I'm also concerned about that. I note, as the representative Höie said, that in recent years the Vinmonopolet has gained considerable reputation – and reputation – in the population. It's actually impressive numbers for that company and for those who work there. I have an open eye to assess the need for regulatory adjustments, and to make the necessary and appropriate changes – but we must remember to include the implications of the objectives and the overall policy. The cancellation message, look at me! A comprehensive drug policy is based on the principle that we should regulate products with greater damage potential, more stringent than products with lower risk. This applies, inter alia, to: spirit products. Opening up the sale of spirit drinks in addition to the sale times for alcoholic beverages is not, in my view, a good solution. Although the Ministry can set opening hours for the Vinmonopolet, we have a long and good tradition of setting maximum limits for sales – including for this activity, for the Vinmonopolet. This, I think, is a good solution, and it ensures that any changes are assessed on the basis of public health. Public health considerations must weigh heavily and must not give way for consumer and nutritional reasons without further delay. I often feel that we are discussing this as a direct relationship between us as consumers and the product. But there's a pretty strong interest between. It is in itself legitimate to sell a product, but we have the right to expect the community to act between us and these interests and to protect the public health objectives for all. Today's monopoly system works well. A large majority of the population is satisfied with the Vinmonopole. The purpose of the scheme is to reduce availability, both through the number of sales compared to the store, and through opening hours. That is why I believe that the proposal as a whole does not adequately respect public health, and I therefore cannot support it. Let me also say that I'm worried about the suggestions that are now being promoted to introduce wine in stores in different ways. Wine is the area where the wine monopoly still has a good coverage in its products. However, the monopoly of wine must also be operated on the basis of certain economic principles. The weakening of the wine monopoly position in terms of wine is, in total, a challenge to the position of the wine monopoly. That is why I do not support that proposal either.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e987	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e990	The Minister for Health said in his letter to the Committee, and he actually repeats it here, that he considers that the proposal does not provide sufficient public health supervision. This weekend, the Minister of Health actually decided to introduce the same change that has been proposed here today. Then my question is: what is the difference that the Progress Party believes this and that the Workers' Party means this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e998	What the Workers' Party has proposed this weekend is not a blueprint of what the Progress Party has proposed. What I'm explaining in my answer is that we look at these measures from the perspective of a whole, that some changes – small changes separately – can be combined into the whole of what is the position of the Vinmonopole. That's one of the reasons why we're not following up on the proposal. Otherwise, I think the representative Mandt gave a very good explanation as to why it is not natural to change this type of legislation in the way it is provided by the representative. We're going to get a lot of good opportunities in this room -- maybe in this period and definitely in the next -- to discuss alcohol sales and the role of the wine monopoly. Then we have to make it based on the whole when the proposals are made.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1005	I am very pleased with the clear message of the Council of State when it comes to perhaps opening up wine at the store, and the anxiety of such a proposal creates. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we believe that such a proposal undermines the entire system of the monopoly of wine. The Council of State said in its speech that we have very good evidence of the adverse effects of alcohol and that we need to look at the purpose and the whole. Based on the response of the Council of State to the representative of Kjønaas Kjos, I felt that it was this proposal that came from the opposition and that there was no common law hearing, which was the challenge in relation to the proposal of the Workers' Party. Is it right to interpret it — that there may be a change in the law later that will allow the wine monopoly to have a longer opening time, or will other considerations be taken into account by this government, which is responsible for a solidarity of alcohol policy, so that the National Assembly of the Workers' Party will not be followed up in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1012	I think I'm going to answer briefly: it's not planned to promote legislative proposals in this area in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1017	The programme has been adopted for the next growing period, so I had not expected the Council of State to promote any legislative amendment before the Stortinget falls apart on 30 September. But does the Council of State intend to change the opening hours of the Vinmonopole to longer opening hours, with the exception of the holidays – as I see the proposal? Is there an intention that the Council of State has, with authority from the National Labour Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1022	When I'm going to continue working as Minister of Health and Care after the election, I'm going to assume – including here – that I'm going to follow the Workers' Party's programme, which is going to be a contribution to what's going to be the government's programme. What I can say is that I agree with the main intention of facilitating the functioning of the wine monopoly in line with the life of people, that it is a practical place to go to shop goods that are fully legitimate in Norway – under the circumstances. However, all such measures must be seen in full. The national meeting of the Labour Party has expressed its views on these individual issues. But we also need to look at the overall development of the wine monopoly system, other proposals and the overall image of alcohol policy. As Minister of Health, I have stressed that we place too little emphasis on alcohol when we talk about alcohol in the Norwegian community. I think we need a broader debate on that. That's why I'm very concerned that the Wine Monopoly, which has proven to be very successful in keeping this consumption at a low level – after all, in comparison – is being fenced around in every way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1031	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1036	The representative, Mr Kjos, said in his speech that the Advance Party is actually opposed to the wine monopoly system. Recently, the National Conference of the Left adopted proposals for wine in shops, which in practice involves the liquidation of the Vinmonopolet. Wine is 85 pst. of the total turnover of the Pole. Today we have 270 sales and 12 600 different products – and competent employees who give good advice. However, the wine monopoly was not established to provide the best possible availability. On the contrary, the wine monopoly was established as a social policy tool to reduce the misery resulting from excessive alcohol consumption in the cold water. I want to take this opportunity to clarify what is really the opposition's wine monopoly policy. I am primarily curious about what the Right believes in the question of wine in the store. The representative Heimdal made a good contribution, but says the very opposite of what her preferred partners say in alcohol policy. Then the questions have to be: What demands will the Christian People's Party make on alcohol policy in order to be able to reign with the Left and the Advance Party? Is it not true that the wine monopoly is actually one of the things in the pot at the time of the fall's fall? I think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1047	Just to answer the question from the representative Haugli immediately: I said in my post that the Right fully supports the wine monopoly system. It will not be possible to maintain a monopoly wine regime in Norway if the wine sale is transferred to the store. Having an alcohol monopoly in Norway would mean a significant centralisation of the wine monopoly, or else we would have to start subsidising alcohol sales throughout the country. I don't think we will. We do not subsidize pharmacy sales throughout the country. It would be a special scheme. I also perceive that customers are satisfied with the Vinmonopolet – the service and selection of the Vinmonopolet. Since we are about to clarify misunderstandings and answer questions: I said in my post in the previous case that the government had promoted a bill to abolish the approval system for private hospitals. That's not right. I've read the proposition and the hearing in parallel. This has been addressed in the consultation on the Patient Directive, but not in the legislative proposal. This is not mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1054	I only have a brief comment on the question from the representative Håkon Haugli. I'm sorry about the representative Haugli. He's new to the committee. When the Christian People's Party had the case rapporteur in dealing with the government's report, it was a clear message from the undersigned that our solidarity alcohol policy is not for sale at a government change. It's that simple and so difficult. If the representative Haugli listened to my post, I gave tribute to the representative Kjersti Toppe for her posts, which were like music in my ears – to be in that category. I feel that there is a big gap between the post of the representative Kjersti Toppe of the Central Party and the post of the representative Sonja Mandt, who is the case rapporteur in this case. So I think there's also a gap within today's government colleagues on this issue. Worse than that, it's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1063	As a clarification: in my post I did not say that the Progress Party is against the Vinmonopole. I said that we in the Progress Party are generally opposed to monopoly arrangements. So this is not a fight against wine monopolies – they still have to be there – but in our party program we have a supplement that we want wine at the store. That party programme will be adopted in a month's time, but it is therefore in the proposal for our programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1068	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1084	For several years, habilitation and rehabilitation have been raised by a unanimous increase as one of the most important health policy areas in the future. There has been a statutory task for the municipalities since 1984, and the individual right to offer is governed by law and order. Many people get a good rehabilitation offer, but too many people do not get this right. Most people experience an impressive health service in an acute phase of heart attack, stroke, road accident or premature birth. But when the blue lights are turned off and everyday life comes, many people experience that the help fails. There are many examples: only 60 pst. sufferers are offered treatment in stroke units that have demonstrated good results in terms of reduction of mortality, severe disability and hospitalisation needs. Only one in five cardiac patients receive rehabilitation, although this will improve significantly more rapidly. Health surveillance has warned that the provision of disabled children is failing throughout the country, thus losing the possibility of developing their potential. Former Minister of Health Gabrielsen of the Right started work on an action plan for rehabilitation. Following the government change in 2005, this was followed by a promise from the government of Stoltenberg’s Soria-Moria that they would provide rehabilitation for all those who need it. In 2006, a unanimous Health and Care Committee stated that: ‘The Committee considers it essential to ensure rehabilitation and training for all those who need it. Good rehabilitation and training provide solid benefits for society and individual patients and reduces the need for new hospitalisation.’ Furthermore, ‘The Committee believes that habilitation and rehabilitation must be the next major field of action in the health sector. Such a commitment will contribute to better quality of life and greater autonomy for patients, while reducing the need for care services.’ Neither the commitment of the Soria Moria Declaration nor the unanimous request of the Health and Welfare Committee of the Stortinge has been followed up by the Government. In the 2008 government budget, the government presented a national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. However, the strategy was non-binding and in no way ensured that rehabilitation became a health policy area. On the contrary, the down-priority of the rehabilitation area only continued. In the 2009 budget, the only designation for rehabilitation was removed. The funds used for the purchase of services by private and non-profit institutions for training and rehabilitation were included in the basic transfers to regional health enterprises. This was contrary to the national rehabilitation strategy promoted by the government the year before. And so it still has. The offer was further weakened by the fact that health businesses, as a result of the Interaction Reform, are depriving themselves of much of the responsibility for rehabilitation and withdrawing offers. The right and the other opposition parties, professionals and rehabilitation institutions have often been accused of black paint when we have pointed out failure and lack of bet. But we all remember the rehabilitation action, consisting of more than 45 patient organisations, institutions and trade unions, such as: demonstrated outside the Storting year after year against the failure of the majority government. They made valuable knowledge and valuable input into both big business and government. When the action took place after four years, the organisations stated that the breach of the promise of training to all those who need it was one of the clearest promises of the Stoltenberg government. Then they shut down their business. They just gave up. The National Audit Office’s 2012 report, Document 3:11 for 2011–2012, confirms what many knew, but it is nevertheless depressing reading. The report shows that there has been no documented strengthening of the provision of rehabilitation services in the specialist healthcare service since 2005. In the areas where the effort can be measured, it seems to have gone down. The report also shows that bed capacity and number of days of stay have been reduced, while waiting time has increased. There have also been considerable variations in the supply of patients around the country. The report points out that there are no methods to record the need for rehabilitation and, consequently, no overview of the real need. However, the national audit considers that there is under-coverage and that information on bed places, waiting times, lying days and average bedtime are important targets for assessing capacity developments. Activity measured in DRG scores shows a reduction in both normal and specialised rehabilitation. There are also major uncertainties and challenges in the interaction between specialist health services and municipalities. It also turns out that there are only a few municipalities that have an offer that can rightly be called rehabilitation, and 20 pst. no statutory coordinator has been established by the municipalities. Eight out of ten municipalities believe that the specialist health service lacks competence about the measures and services they provide, and the specialist health service says that the municipalities lack capacity to follow up what is recommended professionally. The interaction reform has led to more people being outsourced from hospitals to the community health service before they are able to cope. Even shorter hospital stays are already short, giving municipalities greater responsibility for the follow-up of patients. Effective, good rehabilitation measures are therefore important. New research also shows that disabled older people are being rehabilitated more quickly in rehabilitation centres than in hospitals, and there should be consequences for the organisation of rehabilitation services by municipalities. There was a thought-provoking post in VG l7. April, which was called ‘The Black Hole in the Health Service’, by Lill-Ann Schjelderup and Inger Lise Skaar. They describe the ‘black hole’ between discharge from the hospital and return to everyday life, home and work. They say that what is so well called the Interaction Reform, they experienced on the body as a responsible powdering reform. They were told that they had to go to a hospital before they could come home. In their article, they describe many of the issues raised by the Riksrevision, the subject area, the Right and the other opposition parties and brought up with the government here in Stortinget time and again – without any particular benefit. So in sum, it's clear that rehabilitation, despite many promises, has not been prioritised. Right-wing opinion requires clear political governance and earmarking of funds if we are to succeed in giving a boost to the rehabilitation field. It is not enough to refer to increased appropriations to health businesses and hope that a neglected area, such as the rehabilitation field, will win the internal battle for the budget crowns. It's documented that it doesn't. Therefore, in its alternative budgets, the right has spent up to 500 million in recent years. to a escalation in habilitation and rehabilitation and earmarked these funds within the framework of the allocation of growth in patient care. This is a clear political order that the funds should go to the patients who need it the most. If we are to implement a commitment to rehabilitation, we must be willing to give priority to this in front of something else. It will be the best investment for better quality of life for patients and more active contributors in society. Of course, our proposal for a national obliging recovery plan for quality, capacity and competence in rehabilitation with earmarked funds is one of our most important areas of action in the future. We believe earmarking is necessary for a period, as it was also for the mental health escalation plan in order to expand the offer. It is positive that more people receive outpatient rehabilitation, but there is a worrying decrease in the number of daily services. We believe that the capacity of private and non-profit institutions needs to be better exploited. There is a paradox that a number of places are available and that good offers are being put down at the same time as there are very many waiting for rehabilitation. A recent study carried out by the NHO shows that rehabilitation institutions contracted by regional health firms have available available capacity equivalent to 350 000 treatment days, which can provide treatment for 17 000 people. It makes no sense then that patients have to wait for rehabilitation or get a poor offer in the municipalities, some even in a nursing home without the necessary capacity and competence. Regional health enterprises become like the goats that fit the oats bag: they own the enterprises and are to buy private offers. It is too unpredictable for the ideal and private institutions. We believe that there is a need for an independent body with good ordering skills in rehabilitation, where quality and competence must be crucial, not just quantity and price. The contractual periods must be significantly longer than today, so that the institutions have the necessary predictability. This is among the most important health services, but nevertheless a very neglected area. My question is what the government will now do to ensure that everyone who needs and has the right to rehabilitation and rehabilitation is offered a decent offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1130	Thank you to the representative, Mr Sjøli, for raising this important issue. I can only agree that we share views on the importance of habilitation and rehabilitation for good patient outcomes. It is a field that is in strong professional development and that is also intended to reflect the nature of other health services. It's a challenge, but we have full attention to do this as best we can. Cooperation between different actors and levels is important in order to provide an individual with a good range of services. It is important that this field is now increasingly raised as part of what is happening in hospitals, by what is happening in the municipalities, and not least as part of the cooperation reform. Let me first go to the core of this with rehabilitation. So we're talking about rehabilitation and rehabilitation, about systematic cooperation between professionals, patients and the community to achieve concrete goals for mastering, participation and quality of life. Such processes may be time-limited or ongoing over a long period of time. Some will need rehabilitation throughout their lives. Therefore, rehabilitation must be part of all efforts, treatment and care, and the voice of users must also be clear here, cf. our previous debate on quality. Cooperation is central — between user and treatment, between professional groups, between levels and between agencies. The establishment and organisation of the rehabilitation offer is not static. We see and experience that rehabilitation is also developing — in order to adapt it better, adopt a new approach and fit it into the organisation of the overall health service. It is not that we have done nothing in this field – I will reject it. The main promise we have made for prevention, treatment and rehabilitation lies in the Cooperation Reform. This reform suggests that the services should be provided where the patient lives – rehabilitation services where the patient can live at home and which are more cost-effective and better suited to the individual’s needs. The offer may be provided by services to accompany the patient over time. In addition to health and care services, municipalities also have access to a wide range of instruments that can be crucial for good results in rehabilitation. This includes, for example, assistance to provide and adapt housing, the dissemination or creation of social meeting places, proximity to sporting activities, school organisation, adult training and labour management. Within the specialist health service, we have been concerned that the offer should be sufficient and that the necessary competences should be ensured. Within the specialist health service, hospital services are provided, both in bed rooms, outpatient clinics, through outpatient teams, and through learning and mastering centres. These are in strong professional development. In addition, regional health enterprises have concluded agreements with a number of private rehabilitation institutions on services in different areas. According to the 2011 Joint Data Report of the Health Directorate, there was a decrease from 2010 to 2011 in the number of daily hospital stays but an increase in the number of daily stays. In private rehabilitation institutions too, we have seen an increase in the number of daily stays. The funds spent by regional health enterprises on the purchase of services in private training and rehabilitation institutions have increased from about 1 billion. kr in 2005 until over 1.5 bn. kr in 2011. Preliminary figures from regional health enterprises for 2012 show that they spent around 1570 million. kr. For tomorrow's rehabilitation, I want to use this debate to highlight four steps that I believe are necessary to give this field the necessary recognition and attention. The first arrest is about everyday rehabilitation. Each user shall be able to use the resources, capabilities and opportunities they have to master everyday life. This was also a bearing message in the care message last Friday. It's an important goal. In the main message, we warn of a professional shift in care services by placing greater emphasis on rehabilitation, prevention and early interventions. Everyday rehabilitation was presented in Norway through a joint project in which nurses, ergot therapists and physiotherapists showed what we can do by cooperating across professionals and involving home services, i.e. renewing the approach. At the heart is how the user himself can actively contribute to restoring or improving the level of function. I think this is an approach with considerable opportunities, which we will see used and tested more and more. Many municipalities are now in the process of everyday rehabilitation. We will contribute to more testing models for early response and such day-to-day rehabilitation. I want to say it so strongly that with the knowledge we have today, all municipalities should try some kind of everyday rehabilitation. The competence of nurses, ergot therapists and physiotherapists must be valued. It's there and can be put into service. The second is free rehabilitation. The regional health establishments have concluded agreements with private training and rehabilitation institutions. We value the contributions of these institutions. At the time of the conclusion of agreements, services are required. As mentioned above, the funds that have gone into purchasing services from private training and rehabilitation institutions have increased significantly since the responsibility for funding was added to regional health care establishments. In 2011, a greater proportion of patients in these institutions were entitled to health care than in 2010. This may indicate that more patients with more serious conditions are being offered in these institutions now than was usual in the past. In line with the free choice of hospitals, it is difficult not to adopt the same approach for training and rehabilitation institutions. I want to work on this and have started work on identifying the organisational, legal and economic consequences of such an extension. The third handle concerns new cooperation venues. What do I mean by that? Well, many people who need rehabilitation and rehabilitation services experience disruptions and failures in the flow between levels and between services. We need to take those experiences seriously. Patients and users shall not experience changed offers as a result of such transitions. Therefore, the legal requirements of the Interaction Reform for concrete cooperation agreements between hospitals and municipalities are so important. The Health Directorate reports that all hospitals and municipalities have now concluded such agreements and that the agreements include rehabilitation and rehabilitation. This means that we're doing a good job of improving patient outcomes in this area as well. But we're not here either. I have now taken the initiative to set up a grant scheme of 30 million. to develop pilots and schemes to follow-up the large groups of chronic diseases in the municipalities. These may include diabetics, carbon separators and others who need rehabilitation, overall follow-up or other concrete mastering measures. This helps to give these people a better everyday life and more effective help in the community environment. It is important to establish new cooperation venues where municipalities and hospitals combine to create good services in different areas of healthcare. This is done by providing funds for concrete cooperation projects between hospitals and municipalities in grant schemes linked to the Cooperation Reform. Among other things, we have the choice of priorities for projects that target the most seriously mentally ill, and which are also likely to have drug problems. Such models, the ACT teams, contribute to improved functionality, including: through treatment and rehabilitation, organised housing services with guidance and support and follow-up related to education and work. We will continue and strengthen efforts to develop good areas of cooperation for rehabilitation, with emphasis in several areas, including: disorders and mental health. Cooperation is also important in the field of specialist health. Regional coordinating units in the area of rehabilitation have been established in all regional health establishments. They now cooperate well across the board. Within the habilitation service, annual management conferences are organised and a work committee dealing with different themes is established. So ask someone – on the basis of various observations: are we stepping down rehabilitation in specialist health services faster than municipalities are building up their skills? The representative also asked the question. That's an important question. Of course, it is undesirable that such an omission arises. We need to identify this better and, where appropriate, to provide action against it. That is why I want to take the initiative of a rehabilitation forum in which KS, regional health companies, rehabilitation institutions and user organisations are invited to discuss further developments in this area. How can we safeguard the competence we have, while developing the field of rehabilitation into something that should be done to a greater extent than today in the immediate environment of people? The fourth is a national network for rehabilitation. I notice that there are discussions in different environments about what habilitation and rehabilitation are, how it should be organised, how to define the concept, how to further develop and follow up this important subject. Such a discussion is important, but may soon become a theoretical exercise for the few. I want to be more clearly patient- and user-focused on the rehabilitation field. We need to understand rehabilitation as a subject ranging from everyday lifelong learning to highly specialised care for injuries and diseases – which I could see at Sunnaa Hospital last week – and which includes rehabilitation of people who are struggling with mental health or have drug problems. I would like to ask the Health Directorate to take the initiative of a consensus conference and set up a network for rehabilitation, where different professional environments meet and discuss the challenges of rehabilitation and rehabilitation. I would like to ask the Health Directorate to involve KS in this work. The government’s strategy for 2008–2011 in this field provided a good basis for the development that is now taking place. Through this strategy, we initiated and contributed to a number of development and interaction projects, and much has been done to increase competence. We have followed up the strategy with a new collective regulation on rehabilitation and rehabilitation, individual plan and coordinator that clarify responsibilities and tasks in hospitals and municipalities. We have a lot of big stakes to help further develop this field. Although much has happened, much remains to be done. That's what I'm going to say. That is why I have launched the four handles that I believe will help us develop a good field of expertise to get even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1181	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. There was a good deal of self-recognition here – that this field has not been prioritised, despite the fact that for almost eight years a majority government has been in place and has had the opportunity. But we have to leave it. What's important now is we're looking forward to it. I think the council here drew up some lines and had some suggestions that are positive. There is no doubt that there is still much left before we are in port. I can also mention that there is now a new action, the Rehabilitation promise, that focuses on rehabilitation, and that demands that it now be lifted. I think the four grips that the Minister of Health presented here are very good. This is the case with everyday rehabilitation, that people get good help where they live to master their everyday life, to master their lives and to get back to work quickly – and that this also applies to those who do not come back to work. I am pleased that a proposal on free rehabilitating options will be put forward. It is a proposal that the Right has promoted several times here in Stortinget and that has been voted down. We are pleased that it will finally become a reality. I also think that the Council of State is addressing the interaction between the local health service and the specialist health service is very important – this is the hole that those who wrote the article in the VG talked about – and that grants will also be provided for good cooperation projects. I think this is very good that the Minister of Health is now adding up to a consensus conference. It's important to know what works, what doesn't work, and how to improve the quality of the different offers. So I thought that was good. There is a relationship with me that I would like to address, and this concerns the conversion of the funding mechanism for physiotherapy in the municipalities, which the government introduced in 2009. We warned against that conversion because we feared that it would weaken the offer, and unfortunately we got the right. My question is whether the Minister of Health will reconsider this funding mechanism for physiotherapists. I have one more question, and it concerns the quality register for patients receiving rehabilitation and rehabilitation. What does the Minister of Health think about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1198	I will join many of the reflections of the interpellant and again say that this is an important debate. I just want to say on behalf of the government that there may be disagreements about different measures, but I really want to disagree with the claim that the government has not been concerned about rehabilitation, that we do not see the significance of it. On the contrary, we are very concerned about that, and I stress again what I said in my post, that this is a field of very professional development. I could see for myself at Sunnaa’s hospital how they reach, among other things. used ICT and telemedicine to facilitate rehabilitation in the municipality for patients who travel home from this very specialised rehabilitation, where they get a kind of help they couldn't dream of just a few years ago. How we facilitate the development and stabilisation of the type of services offered to users is important. I also read this headline in the VG, that someone had experienced what they called a hole in the Cooperation Reform. It is important that we learn from those experiences, but we do not get a look at the places where the reform works, where, in fact, on the basis of agreements between the municipalities and hospitals, there is a seamless transition and a follow-up with a much more targeted rehabilitation according to the individual's needs, which is happening today. There's reason to celebrate and underline it. I think that the idea of such a consensus conference is important in order to create a common platform as much as possible about what we're talking about. Here it is all the more important that we be able to keep in touch with the professional environments and the different levels of administration, so that we can also see how those who are funded from different sources can draw in the same direction, so that the user, the patient, should not feel that she or he is going over that distinction. With regard to the two specific questions asked by the representative at the end, I would like to take a little time to answer them, so I can inform myself properly about them. I can't stand here without saying that the funding arrangements for physiotherapists in the municipalities are the reason for the negative development the representative claims to see, but that's a well-worded question, and I'm going to make sure to come back and give proper answers to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1209	Good and adapted rehabilitation is essential in order for us to have a holistic and coherent patient profile. It is equally important that we have a thorough analysis of how and where rehabilitation is to be carried out, including: the degree to be integrated and integrated into patient care, what to do in their own rehabilitation institutions, or what to do in the community health service. The interpellant refers to the Riksrevision, which has undergone the rehabilitation field and, among other things, points to some challenges: health authorities and health services need more knowledge about the needs and capacities of rehabilitation services, and the health sector needs more up-to-date knowledge about the types of treatment and interventions that have the best rehabilitation effect for the different patient groups. The interpellant seems to believe that the rehabilitation field has not grown under this government. That's not right. For example, if we: looking at the purchase of private rehabilitation sites from the RHFs, we will see that this has gone from 996 million. kr in 2005 to over SEK 1,6 billion. kr, which was the amount for 2012. The National Audit Office has pointed out that in this picture it may be difficult to see how this increase has been translated into patient-oriented rehabilitation. What we know – as the Council of State also pointed out – is that the trend is from day-to-day rehabilitation to day-care, which is also in line with professional recommendations and which reaches more patients. We also see an increase in rehabilitation efforts in hospitals. An example is the new impact units in inpatient hospital wards. Specialist rehabilitation must also be provided in the future both in hospitals and in their own institutions. It is therefore important that the RHFs conclude agreements with the best rehabilitation institutions, with frameworks that ensure continuity and quality. It's a vision I think there's a broad consensus about in Stortinget. The Health Policy Programme recently adopted by the National Assembly of the Workers Party underlines the importance of early efforts, good home rehabilitation and stronger multidisciplinary patient pathways – in line with the Cooperation Reform. In this connection, I would like to mention that the Health Directorate for approx. a year ago, a report based on the recommendations of a wide-ranging sample looking at the division of tasks and responsibilities between specialist rehabilitation and municipal rehabilitation, a report that will provide the basis for the road choices we are going to make for the future. Despite a number of positive features, there is no doubt that there is a need for a greater focus on rehabilitation in municipalities. That's almost 85 pst. of the municipalities which have their own beds for rehabilitation. The number of beds has increased from well 1500 to over 2000 between 2005 and 2010. There has also been a better division of work for rehabilitation between hospitals and municipalities, approx. half of the municipalities have entered into an agreement with their hospitals. The ambition must be to strengthen the efforts of all municipalities, both in terms of coordination, individual level and good cooperation agreements. The Minister for Health has recently presented a very important proposal for adjustment in the field of free hospital choice. From the fact that this was a system that the individual patient had the full responsibility to find out, the Council of State has proposed to give the hospitals and HELFO responsibility for finding the right offers and providing guidance and concrete advice on alternatives, so that all patients have the same opportunity to use the scheme. It was Stoltenberg’s first government that introduced free hospital choice, which was an important patient’s right, and which allowed for a reasonable use of the capacity of public hospitals or hospitals to agree with the public. Thus, free hospital choice is not free shopping in some diffuse health market established on the basis of investor return needs, but offers based on public health agreements, which are again based on policy decisions on priorities and distributions. However, there is good reason to welcome the recently proposed change for free hospital choice. In 2010, a study was conducted by the Technology Council which clearly showed that free hospital choice has been used primarily by the freshest and most up-to-date patients, patients with higher education who are familiar with their rights, and patients who are used to navigate in the information flow. That study confirmed my fears that most of us are probably not in our sharpest shopping mode when we are patients – who want it to be on the right side. With the new facility on free hospital choice, it might be interesting to see how the collection of specialist rehabilitation can come under the same scheme as the ordinary hospitals, as the Minister of Health also explained in his reply to the interpellant, and I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1235	‘No guarantee to go through life free of injury and disease. Some are born with a disability or chronic illness – others get this later in life. Accidents and illness can occur at any time and can mean that life with one changes drastically. The rest of your life is going to be insecure. Will you be able to complete your studies? You get to work? Will you be able to master your everyday life on your own?’ These are not my words, but the introduction to the FFO's habilitation and rehabilitation platform, which says with very few words what this is actually about. In this room, all parties have repeatedly stressed the importance and necessity of good rehabilitation services – not only our committee, but also other committees, especially the labour and social committee. Real rehabilitation at the right time has been essential for many people to be able to work and thus have great socio-economic benefits. Nevertheless, rehabilitation has lost for other purposes when the budgets have been submitted by the government. The National Audit Office’s reviews of the rehabilitation field for the period 2005–2010 confirm that it is not possible to measure any reinforcement, and it is therefore difficult to see that government parties actually believe it when they say that proper rehabilitation is important at the right time. Today’s situation is a long wait and is little influenced by finding the most optimal offer. I've met too many times with people who say they got training and follow-up after serious injury or illness, but they're doubtful that society has spent a lot of money on them to give an offer that really wasn't the right thing to do. The result is too many that the way back becomes unnecessarily long and thus unnecessary animals for society. In many cases, they point out that they have a feeling that the system is more concerned with having offered than that the offer is actually the right thing to do. I have mentioned this earlier with the Minister of Health, who then agreed that we should not make offers just to give anything. A concrete change to this is partly outlined by the Minister of Health now. It is fascinating to hear examples of people who almost feel they have experienced a miracle after having had a stay at a rehabilitation institution with expertise in their particular problem and how patients feel that their stay led them into a whole new world – a world of knowledge, control and mastery. It is important to focus on the fact that rehabilitation is not always about training after illness or injury. For many, it is also about loss of sight or hearing. Learning to live with their new situation and getting tips and guidance on simple grips that make the new situation not paralysing is important. I was impressed when the Blind Alliance showed me that simple grip with your own means you have in the house, can relieve and correct someone who has suddenly lost his sight. Something as simple as taking a knit around the mustard bottle to know the difference between it and the necklace, and corresponding to the hairjampo and conditioner, was the thing I learned there. So incredibly simple, but someone actually had to give me the idea. Many other things like this are learned at the Center of the Blind League in Hurdal as part of the rehabilitation work. But getting there is about being extra lucky. Too few people get this offer, and it's simply not good enough. In a society where we all talk about equal opportunities, freedom of choice and participation, rehabilitation has become more important in many ways than ever. In particular, if we add the working line as an argument, I would consider it a matter of course that the offer is being built up. That is why each year the Progress Party has increased and earmarked the appropriations in its budgets. Eight years of red-green government has given eight years of debate on this. No parties have disagreed, rather the opposite. So then the question is, why isn't that what we want? Is it weak management, wrong priorities or difference in life and learning that, after eight years, we just have to realize that we're on the ground resting? The Health Minister is sketching some new grips, and it's very good, but it's legally late. The most important new thing is that this time you actually admit that you haven't done enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1269	I would like to thank the interpellant for putting a very important topic on the agenda. The rehabilitation field really needs a lift. Habilitation and rehabilitation are one of the areas for increased emphasis in the Cooperation Reform. It is an objective that municipalities should have a clear responsibility for this area. Habilitation and rehabilitation shall contribute to enabling disabled people to participate in society on their own premises. In the context of the Interaction Reform, municipalities have spent a lot of time and resources receiving pre-treated patients from hospitals. Hospital beds have been created at record speed. Economic focus has been so prominent in many municipalities that prevention, rehabilitation and mental health have come in a different range. There has long been cross-political agreement that the rehabilitation field should be strengthened. In fact, the right wanted the interaction reform to be a rehabilitation reform with much more focus on physical and mental training, organisation and follow-up. We're good at saving lives in this country, said the interpellant, but when the blue lights are off, we're not as good at helping people live. Rehabilitation is about helping and facilitating people with disabilities to participate in society on their own premises. Rehabilitation is not just about physical training. Rehabilitation is much more. It also applies to mental, social and economic conditions. In that context, there is nothing as important as work. Many hundreds of thousands of working-age Nordics are now totally or partially out of work. We know that there are some sick and disabled people who are absolutely incapable of working, and these people are not to be stressed out. Those who are too sick to work should experience safe and secure income and receive decent social security without being ashamed of it. It's a quality stamp of a good society that we ensure everyday life and care for those who don't do themselves. But the same basic thing is that anyone who can, and has the desire and abilities, has a new chance of getting into the world of work. Anyone who can work in whole or in part has a responsibility to facilitate the best possible way. Every survey shows that the Nordics are doing well at work. We generally like our work, our colleagues and even our boss. For most people, the workplace is the most important social arena outside the family, and then we haven't even mentioned the economics. Because even if we have and are going to have good social security schemes in this country, it is rarely particularly liberal economic when social security is the only source of income. Therefore, the Right will have an open working life with good arrangements that include as much as possible. Today, these arrangements are not good enough. We can see that, among other things. by the fact that almost 80000 people with disabilities are involuntarily absent from work. At the same time, we see that the figures for the development of employment among people with disabilities are not uplifting. That was the background to the fact that the Right in its proposal for an alternative state budget for 2013 has invested well over 200 million. more than the government of schemes aimed at including those who are currently out of work or at risk of falling out of work. There are few tasks in Norway today that are more important than organising and including as much as possible in the workplace. Right-wing concrete proposals include, inter alia: a commitment to wage subsidies. Many people who are currently out of work could contribute a little if they got the room and understanding that for a shorter or longer period they would have slightly lower productivity than the regular employee. The right will therefore have far more widespread use of temporary and non-temporary wage subsidies than is currently the case. In addition, we need to better facilitate those who can deliver 100 pst. Only they get the help they need to get started, get that help. The right will therefore strengthen the functional assistant system and make it permanent. We want an enhanced and simplified facilitation grant. Practice today often means that it is too late. While the government is fully in the process of abolishing the tax credit scheme for large costs of illness, the Right will retain a deduction for expenditure related to work. Many, with government policies, are forced into passive social security schemes when they can no longer deduct disease-related tax expenditure. If a few people with disabilities are going to work, we need not only good politics, but also a working life that is willing to look beyond one or the other constraint, and rather see what each person can contribute. For example, I can. mention the NHO Rings in the water project. The aim of the project is for NHO member companies to recruit more people who today want to enter the labour market. This shows that in Norway we have a broad and well-organised employer page, which shows social responsibility. At the same time, there is also a self-interest in the project by allowing NHO companies to recruit many skilled people. I also want to bring forward the Telenor Open Mind project, which aims to recruit and train both those with physical disabilities and those who are struggling in other ways, mentally or socially. We also need to do our part to open up our working life to those who are on the outside today and want to enter. We have to show that we're taking rehabilitation seriously and expanding the term. Here the State can contribute both as an employer and as a legislator, for example. by lowering the threshold into the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1301	We must recognise that rehabilitation has not had the position and the performance of the health and care services that they oversee the objectives of health policy. The number of people in need of rehabilitation and rehabilitation is increasing. This is not least because there are more lifestyle diseases, we are getting more older and more people are living with chronic diseases. Change requires action and efforts in many areas, and it is a long-term development work. It is an important interpellation that the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli addresses. The area needs sufficient resources to establish the right capacity, and political governance needs to be strengthened and user organisations need to be properly involved. In the area of rehabilitation, there has been a tradition in Norway that private institutions run by non-profit organisations have made a great effort. They have been an important resource, and we must recognize that their role and framework conditions have not been sufficiently well mapped before. We need longer term contracts that can provide carefree conditions for the ideal rehabilitation institutions. We also see that there has been a positive development in recent business. I would also like to highlight the cooperation agreement between the Government of the Minister of Renewal, Administrative and Church Affairs and the Chief Organisation of Works and Freedom Norway. That cooperation agreement is a major step in the right direction. The principle of good interaction was established here: the principle of ensuring good quality and proper use of public funds, of providing long-term and prudent conditions for the voluntary sector and of recognising the non-profit sector’s specific and self-reliant nature. In the future, it will give us a lack of methods and actors in the health and care field in general and the rehabilitation field in particular. In particular, there is agreement that follow-up to the agreement should be based on the principle of dialogue, and a dedicated dialogue forum has been set up at a superior level. The centre party follows on to the non-profit sector's framework conditions, and we have been concerned about some of the developments that have led to the loss of non-profit institutions because of their loss of supply. We believe that long-term agreements based on quality should replace the supply system. All municipalities in the country shall ensure that all residents or residents of the municipality are provided with the necessary provision and follow-up if necessary for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. Municipal rehabilitation services must mainly be organised in such a way that they are offered at or in connection with the arenas that individuals live their lives – that is, in their own homes, in kindergartens, in schools or in municipal institutions. In the future, I am sure that municipal rehabilitation needs to be increased. Everyday rehabilitation is an example of early effort and modern rehabilitation. This is something that many municipalities in Norway have already started to do, where one activates the users and focuses on adding must work in a multidisciplinary way. Cooperation reform is precisely about rehabilitation. I am concerned that we need to know more about the provision of rehabilitation in the municipalities against the Reform of Cooperation. There are some feedback that patients who are ready-to- print in some ways have progressed in the rehabilitation beds. Here we need more information. The announcement of tomorrow's care services, which was made last Friday, is very good for the rehabilitation field. Every day rehabilitation is very important, and there is going to be a professional shift towards active care. I understand that there is a will in the municipalities for rehabilitation, and it is important to ensure a further strengthening of the municipal economy. Then the municipal politicians will give priority to this. In addition, it is very good with specific add-on arrangements that have our own. There have been some criticisms that rehabilitation is a specialist health service that is stepped down before the municipalities build up their competence. I am very pleased with the four arrests launched by the Minister of Health, both when it comes to more everyday rehabilitation, free rehabilitating options, new cooperation venues, national networks and the fact that one of the new rehabilitation forums is about to go through the distribution of rehabilitation between the specialist services and the community health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1322	Thank you to the interpellant for raising this important issue. This is a problem that occupies many patients and many relatives, but it also occupies individuals. Habilitation and rehabilitation are essentially about increasing quality of life in everyday life. Governments reiterated to the interpellant that the government is concerned with rehabilitation. Yes, I'm not going to doubt it, but it's a strong criticism and a strong analysis The Riksrevision gave this area to this house a year ago: it's hard to see that there's been an increase in capacity since 2006. It's a huge cost to get from the National Audit Office. The interaction reform meant that services would be linked. We should get the right treatment at the right level, and that's what rehabilitation must be about – that we get a continuous service. There is little help in getting treatment in a hospital and then starting training at a rehabilitation department in one of the country's hospitals before being sent home, if there is no provision for rehabilitation there. Maybe the municipality doesn't have competence, maybe there's no place there, or there's other different reasons. As the Christian People's Party sees it, it is therefore important that we now have a stepping-up plan – with clear funding incentives at the bottom – in order to get a complete rehabilitation. It really requires all those who need rehabilitation and rehabilitation for increased quality of life into their everyday lives. There's a lot of urgency in this area. One of the things that may be more urgent is to take care of the skills that exist in many of our training institutions run by NPISHs or associations. These are competences that have been developed nine times — competences that have been developed between the user and the caregiver. We now see this competence crumbling a little, because the training institutions are not being used to the extent that they could have been used in full coating. The Council of State points out that there is a significant increase in the use of training institutions from 2010 to 2011, but in the news picture we can often read about the availability of training facilities. These are ads that you can get training by paying for it yourself. This turmoil I already want to challenge the Council of State. Can he bring it with him into the new cooperation arena – the rehabilitation forum – that the Council of State set out in its statement? Will he bring it in there, and how can we maintain the skills available at the training institutions? It is urgent, as this competence is not transferred directly elsewhere. The FFO has put rehabilitation on the agenda this spring. They raise many questions, and the representative of Kjønaas Kjos has already referred to some of the opening words there. I think it's one perspective that it's important that we take into this room, and it's about rehabilitation and rehabilitation for young people. The FFO says in a good way that for young people it is more about being allowed to be with other young people and not with people who have the same diagnosis, because it is little uplifting to be on a rehabilitation and habilitation scheme together with someone who may be 40–50 years older than you. It's more important that you have the same age to be able to think in the future. These kids are going to live with their diagnosis for years to come, and they want us to think untraditionally there. It's also one of the things that I want to challenge the Council of States, through the four points he raised. He says that he should have a clear user perspective on this national network, that this perspective on youth rehabilitation and rehabilitation will be addressed in particular and quite quickly. Can you think differently and new about what you've done in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1336	I think it's right today to remind you of the background of the cooperation reform, namely the Wisløff committee, which looked at the importance of having a health service that was linked, even though one has chosen to organise responsibility at two levels. The groups that were highlighted as having a need to improve interaction around were not least patients who are chronically ill and who need continuous healthcare over time. A large number of them need a good rehabilitation offer. That's why I think it's absolutely right when someone describes rehabilitation as the black hole of the Interaction Reform. The instruments of the Interaction Reform focused a great deal on the economic, economic and inter-municipal and specialist health services, while they had to a very small extent a description of the need for the development of the content of healthcare, and not least what was also an overall opposition's requirement to enter into negotiations on the content of the Cooperation Reform, namely a stepping-up plan for the area of rehabilitation. But rehabilitation is very much. That's all from, for example, home help, which helps to make it easier for those receiving home help to find food themselves and to make a meal instead of serving it on a level, for the very specialised intensive rehabilitation that takes place in Sunnaa’s hospital. Between it there is a great diversity. What the interpellant here takes up, and that very many of those who are patients and professionals in the field of rehabilitation are concerned about, is that there are now quite major changes in the field of rehabilitation, without this being anchored in some very clear professional and political guidelines, and that one can risk having good, important rehabilitation services lost – disappearing – or not getting the place they should have in this work. I am thinking in particular of the kind of rehabilitation institutions that are specialised in some areas, where one thing is the professional competence of these institutions, which is very important, but not least what many patients describe as essential, the peer work or the user competence that a person experiences there. It is an offer that municipalities will not be able to provide regardless of the size of the municipalities we have, or will have, in Norway in the future. Most municipalities will experience that they have users and patients within that area, perhaps a few every year. They will therefore not have this advantage of working with others who are in the same situation as a person experienced in these institutions. It is therefore important to ensure that one in the work that goes on emphasises the role of that type of institution and that they are not constantly squeezed between other offers. Then there will also be a need to look at what is the more labour-oriented rehabilitation. There you can also see that Nav has a role to play in terms of the use of labour-oriented rehabilitation. There is also a need for better coordination between healthcare and Nav, so Nav should be involved in the work outlined by the Minister of Health – four actions that we believe are sensible to implement. We see that there are many people who want rehabilitation, and we see that there is free capacity for rehabilitation that is not being used. For this reason, a system of free rehabilitating options, which has been advocated by the Right, will be an important system, not least to ensure that patients are rehabilitated in the institutions they see most likely to contribute, for example: with what I had in mind in terms of user competence. So the Right conclusion is that, in addition to the measures taken by the Minister of Health, there is still a need for an escalation plan in the rehabilitation field that describes the field ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1351	I would like to thank you for the debate – it has been a good debate. This is, of course, a neglected area within what should be a comprehensive healthcare service, and at least I realized that the Council of State recognizes that there are still significant challenges in the area, and that he is now willing to bet more than the government has done so far. I think that the measures he has outlined show quite clearly – both the four steps he outlined in addition to the rehabilitation forums, and that we have a consensus conference. However, there is a lack of something, and there is an obliging national action and escalation plan for quality, competence and capacity in the rehabilitation field – a stepping-up plan that we believe must also involve earmarked means to strengthen the provision of services in the municipalities, for example. by strengthening physiotherapy services and local learning and mastering services. We need to strengthen quality and patient safety. There is also a need for more research and technical development in the public sector, but also in the private sector. An individual plan that is statutory must also be in place. I believe it is important that the decision-makers now also involve themselves more in this work. The Joint Organisation of disabled persons has developed a platform for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. This is good reading. They strongly want an increased bet and a clear lift. The goal is lifelong learning, lifelong learning for the individual and an inclusive society that provides opportunities for everyone, because it's a long way to go before we get there. Life has taught me to listen to those who wear shoes, learn from their experiences and knowledge. The FFO Platform contains the measures to be taken to provide a good and sound offer. In doing so, I recommend that the Council of State read it. Finally, I would like to refer to what the Council of State said in the first case we discussed today, where he thanked the opposition for having a strong focus on quality and patient safety in healthcare. We've had that for years, and we're happy that effort is appreciated. Not only in the normal healthcare sector, but not least in the rehabilitation field, we have been driving forces to ensure good quality and safety in treatment provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1364	I would also like to give the representative credit for returning to the hall for that commitment. I think it's an engagement we share, and representatives of the government parties have expressed it well today. I also want to underline the importance of meeting the users, and the little green pamphlet she held up, I have read and seen, and I have met the organisation and listened to them. It's important to take it with you. There are challenges left in the rehabilitation field, but I'm getting so much inspiration from the opportunities, because that's what's most fascinating -- seeing how good rehabilitation actually completes the efforts made in the health care system, or that through good rehabilitation it makes it possible to live dignified lives. Then I would just like to say that when the representative of Kjønaas Kjos says that he is at rest on the spot, I disagree with that. I mean, it doesn't reflect what's happening around in Health-Norway. What is happening in the interaction between the different parts of Health Norway – the private, voluntary, ideal – is a significant development, but there are challenges and we are addressing them. So the representative Sjöli asked me a few questions. Let me try to give you sketchy answers: These included: the question of health records and whether there is a specific issue in the rehabilitation field. I won't rule that out. The idea of these is that they come from below and are anchored in the ministry. We now see that there are health records of some diseases that have strong rehabilitation features — spinal cord diseases, for example, and COPD. We can see more of these. The Directorate for Health has commissioned regional health establishments to establish and operate such registers nationwide. So it could be that there's going to be an outcome. In the case of physiotherapists, the feedback I get is that the municipalities have taken this seriously, and that this funding mechanism has contributed to their doing so. The municipality would make up about 40 pst. of the wages and salaries of physiotherapists. It does so now, and the number of part-time homes is reduced – municipalities are taking greater action. This does not mean that we are in the target in this area, but there are a large number of these important health professionals who need to be involved and committed by the municipalities to fulfil their mission. We must engage the ergot therapists and a wide range of those involved in habilitation and rehabilitation in practice. So finally to the representative Hemdal: can we use all available capacity? These are of the questions where, finally, for a Council of State, there must be a question that we should do as much as we can, within the resources we have the opportunity to mobilise. But it's not like in our healthcare that in this area, like in others, we have a blank mandate to be able to take advantage of everything. Quality requirements need to be set, there needs to be a need, and a priority has to be set in terms of how we dispose of our total resources. You want to hear about youth? Yes, when we make such conferences on consensus and networking, young people and their needs should, of course, be included. Youth must also have a voice on those occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1383	Case No. So 3 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1399	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, then abbreviated to ALS, is a very serious and incurable disease. There is a gradual weakening and a gradual loss of nerve cells that have the task of bringing signals from the brain to the muscles, which gradually lose their nerve supply and gradually weaken. The disease affects patients in different ways. Some lose speech, others experience paralysis in their arms and legs. Someone loses the ability to breathe on their own. And the passage of time varies from person to person. The only thing you know for sure about the disease today is that it is incurable and can affect people of all ages, down to the age of 20. There's no medicine that cures, only some that can slow down the symptoms for a period of time. I've recently met patients who have this disease, and their relatives. They want – and have given their consent – to the Storting to meet them through their stories in order to reveal what the disease involves and what challenges they face in everyday life. The first one you will meet is Mona Hytjanstorp Bahus. She has among others committed herself strongly to this patient group through the ALS Norsk Support Group, which she also began in close cooperation with the Muscle Disease Association. The members of this association have even strong experiences behind them and contribute help and support to those affected by the disease and their relatives. They contribute their own experiences and their own knowledge, and I will commend the enormous effort they make for their fellow human beings in a very difficult situation. Mona Hytjanstorp Bahus has told that her father died of the disease in 2007. The experience of his father being changed from being a most up-and-coming person to just being able to move his eyes within a few months has been a terrible bad experience. She and the closest relatives experienced that they were quite alone in this traumatic period. It was a powerful vision for everyone, especially for the children. She has told me that having someone to talk to was what they missed the most. They met a lack of assistance and a community health and care service that lacked knowledge and experience about the disease. The other one you will meet is Freddy Olden from Trondheim, who we have followed through TV 2 reports. Some of us have met him personally here in Stortinget. There have been strong meetings with a very serious sick man of well 40 years who fights hard to have a good everyday life despite a serious illness. He struggles to get more time with his daughter and his girlfriend and to get a worthy end of life when that time comes. And he's working hard for others who are affected by the disease to get a good and worthy offer. The background for the reports on TV 2 was that he was denied breathing help with the respirator by the doctors at St. Olav's Hospital when the disease gradually demanded it, and he was also told that it was not about economics. The games at St. Olav's Hospital said according to the TV 2 news – and I quote: ‘The label here is when you extend your life and quality of life and when you extend your pain and death process.’ They thought their decision was for his own good. It naturally created strong reactions in Olden and his relatives and in others who have the disease, yes, i.e. with most of us. All patients have the right to have a new assessment, a so-called second opinion, if you want. Olden has used it at Oslo University Hospital. The ALS team at Oslo University Hospital assessed Olden's situation differently from the doctors at St. Olav's Hospital and expressed a positive opinion that he could receive respiratory care, which could help him live longer. If he had been a patient at Oslo University Hospital, he would have had a clear yes. It gave hope to him and the relatives, and they went home to Trondheim to wait for a new assessment at St. Olav's Hospital. Finally, on Tuesday 9 April, there was a meeting between him and the family and representatives from the Pulmonary Department at St. Olav's Hospital. The doctors did a complete turnaround and have now agreed to provide Olden with breathing aid by means of a respirator when he can no longer breathe himself. It's a decision he and the family are very happy about. He knows that he will die of the disease, but getting breathing help will, as he has said, give him more time with those he is happy with, and not least time to follow his daughter through the growth. All the uncertainties and professional disagreements, and that it has taken a long time to reach this decision, have been a heavy burden on him and the family. In my view, what we have witnessed here is an unacceptable discrimination in Norwegian hospitals. There are different professional assessments at St. Olav's Hospital and at Oslo University Hospital, yes, even there is a discrimination within the same regional health company. The third person you will meet is ALS-framed Pål Eikrem from Ålesund. He has had a respirator for four years and lives at home with his family with sound and good help. He has reacted strongly to this discrimination and to the doctors' lack of knowledge of having a respirator. He's on his blog, among other things. reflected on what is quality of life, and whether it is not that the patient is the closest to defining it. And what happens when communication becomes impossible: who will decide the end of the treatment? He tells me that he has a written agreement with his treating physician, whom I have here been allowed to reproduce. He writes, among other things: that once the disease has come to such an extent that he no longer manages to operate the PC with his eyes, or he does not get or can no longer live at home, the physician responsible for respiratory therapy shall be contacted. Then he will end the treatment and die. And he wants this to happen at home. In the days before the respirator is disconnected, he wants everyone who wants it to come home to him to say good-bye. On the very day he only wants the family with him. In the event of cardiac arrest or other life-threatening situations, no life-saving treatment shall be initiated, but this shall not apply in the event of failure of the respiratory system or other external causes. For Pål Eikrem, this is about integrity, about quality of life and about the possibility of a worthy life, despite an incurable and cruel disease. And it's not least about the right to decide over your own life and to have participation in a dignified end of life. These different professional assessments and discrimination require that we have national, professional guidelines, so that there is equal treatment regardless of residence. For those patients who want it, breathing help has to be an opportunity. The fourth one you will meet is Else Marie Knutsen. She is dependent on a wheelchair and has a user-controlled personal assistant, hereinafter referred to as BPA. After she got sick, life changed and she became totally dependent on other people’s help for all practical tasks — even eating is a problem. For her, the rescue was BPA. She lives in a normal apartment in a housing camp and lives an active life like mother, grandmother, friend and politician. She decides for herself how her everyday life should be, and through good cooperation with competent assistants she can live a good and meaningful life. She wrote to me that when you get a strong disability, it's a sad process you have to live with. But not being able to rule your own life is not going to live with. BPA is about freedom and independence. ULOBA is a tool for many users to implement such a scheme, where they are their own employer. In 2011, however, the BPA service in her region was offered, and the municipality is now her employer. She says that she has suddenly received a home service, not a BPA scheme. According to her, the municipality has reduced the good order to a minimum at a higher price. She believes that the BPA system has been diluted for a home service. I have now shown a few examples that each make visible and make clear many of the challenges of ALS-sickness in everyday life, the ethical dilemmas one faces, and the struggle of the individual to determine his or her own life. Although there are good offers in many municipalities and health companies, there are unfortunately many municipalities where there is a lack of knowledge and experience among professionals and where there is a lack of a proper offer. There is a need to organise a range of tools and relief measures. There is a need for extensive multidisciplinary cooperation, and it is organised through its own ALS teams with ergot therapist, physiotherapist, clinical nutrition physiologist, neurologist, sociologist, nurse, etc. There is a need for greater flexibility in services and for better coordinated efforts around these patients. In many places, there are already good ALS and neurological teams that ensure competence sharing from specialist to primary healthcare across the country. Such teams should be available in all municipalities, either by having their own, or by cooperating with other municipalities and specialist health services. There is also a need for measures to increase the flexibility of services and to avoid any variation in the location of assistance, and provision should be made to enable them to live at home and receive health and care services. Younger people living in institutions are isolated because they are not able to get out, visit friends, attend cultural events or anything else. For this group of patients, it would be very important to have the possibility of a BPA scheme. They do not have it today, and the municipalities say no to cover these expenses. There is a lot of room for improvement, and I look forward to the Council's answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1446	ALS is a very serious disease, an insurgent condition for fellow humans, with major mental and physical challenges along the way, including for relatives and service providers. It is important that the patient and the close relatives receive good help and comprehensive follow-up through the different stages of the course of the disease – nothing less, let me establish it, that must clearly be the goal. I thank the representative, Sjøli, for directing her attention to the situation, and that she gives the three she has chosen, a voice into the hall. It gives a closeness to a serious situation. Interpellant believes that the supply of these patients is perceived to be inadequate. Let me just underline again: all these stories are exceptionally strong. But I cannot, on a general basis, conclude that it is that the situation and the offer are inadequate. However, let me encourage those who feel that they are getting insufficient help and follow-up, to take this up with the hospital or the municipality. Patient and user representatives in the counties are established to help with this, and help is free of charge. The time is precious for patients who have ALS, and I understand that any complaint process can be experienced as an extra burden. That is why, of course, it is most important that we provide a good and comprehensive service to the sick. Planning should start as early as possible and include cooperation with and support to close family members. The patient's opinion and will are particularly important in this process. If the patient so wishes, the municipality shall draw up an individual plan of responsibilities and tasks between bodies and service providers. The decision maker is responsible for the medical follow-up in the municipality, but many parts of the municipal service provider have to be linked here to: home health care, physiotherapy, ergotherapy, aids, practical assistance and activation. It goes without saying, here services have to play on layers. Some municipalities offer user-controlled personal assistance, BPA, to people with this disease, at least during periods of the course. BPA is an alternative way of organising community practical assistance and can provide more flexibility and fewer service providers to deal with patients and relatives. Some municipalities organise the service provision for so-called ALS patients in teams. In the specialist health service, neurologic departments tend to follow up. Many hospitals also have multi-disciplinary offers, also called their own ALS team. The specialist healthcare service is responsible for the training of patients, relatives and caregivers in the municipalities. The hospital shall ensure that a contact network between the hospital and the municipality is established so that the patient can be safe to receive hospital care if complications arise or if other needs arise. The need for help will increase when the disease worsens. Gradually, the municipality may consider it necessary to provide the service offer in a nursing home. Patients with ALS will also benefit from the contact areas and cooperation areas established by the Cooperation Reform. Municipalities and hospitals need to work together to create good services, for example: by means of binding agreements. A grant scheme has also been established whereby municipalities and hospitals may seek funding for cooperation projects. I am here as otherwise concerned that we have to recognise and support relatives who are in demanding care tasks. They must be provided with the necessary information, guidance and relief. Many relatives of people with ALS experience anxiety and depression, become worn out, and many have unanswered questions. In the big message of tomorrow's concern, which I presented on Friday, we have a programme for a forward-looking policy on the subject. In this programme, the interaction between the municipal care service and its relatives has been given an important place. We will do more to develop flexible relief mechanisms, provide information, training and guidance, ensure interaction and cooperation, and we will contribute to more research and development that can improve the situation of those affected. I hope this will also benefit related patients with this very serious disease. The interpellant then raises questions about national professional guidelines, and that is a timely question. We have developed several technical guidelines that are important for ALS patients. The aim of such professional guidelines and guides is to contribute to good practice and to reduce undesired variation in services. National guideline and guidance for long-term mechanical ventilation were developed in 2012 and includes the use of home respirator. From a professional point of view, it is recommended, as a general rule, that ALS patients be offered a home respirator after an individual overall assessment. Increased quality of life is often the primary objective of such treatment. Starting with a respirator can at the same time raise difficult ethical issues for patients, relatives and health professionals. It is important that all involved are informed and have raised ethical issues before possible use of a respirator. The representative probably mentioned an example where that was the case. The patient's own views here must weigh heavily, and there must always be room for discretion. So we know that ALS is an incurable disease with fatal outcomes, and most often it affects relatively young people. It is understandable that many are concerned with life-long treatment. The Health Directorate, the University of Oslo v/Department of Medical Ethics and the Medical Association have cooperated on a national decision-making guide for limiting life-long treatment in the seriously ill and dying. Many patients with ALS get chewing and swallowing problems. National professional guidelines for the prevention and treatment of malnutrition have been established, which may be relevant for patients with ALS. The same applies to a separate dietary manual and to nutrition guidance in the health and care sector. The challenges and actions of the ALS are specifically described in this guide. The Directorate for Health is responsible for the development, dissemination and maintenance of national professional guidelines. In the big news of quality and patient safety, which we discussed earlier today, we have said that the government will improve the system for developing and implementing such professional guidelines and guides. In this work, we will continue to pay attention to comprehensive and complex needs related to ALS and other serious chronic diseases. I am concerned that anyone who is going to take difficult treatment options for people with serious diseases should have good ethical competence. Therefore, clinical ethics committees are established in all hospitals, and we cooperate with the KS and the professional organisations on ethical competence also in the municipalities. To date, more than 200 municipalities have participated in the project Cooperation on ethical empowerment. In the project, learning tools have also been developed for ethical reflection. I have after meeting several people who have participated in this, a good impression of the bet and see that ethics is being worked well in all parts of the healthcare service. I have a lot of understanding that people affected by ALS and serious conditions are having a very difficult time. I have been involved in this article in a wide range of services, national professional guidelines and measures of different kinds. In order to benefit all instruments, it is a matter of close and continuous cooperation with those affected and their families. It is important that they are given the information and the opportunity to design the service offer. I believe we have a health and care service that is rigged and that is in the right direction for patients with such serious diseases to receive the health and care services they need and that are adapted to their needs. But then I would say, a little with the lead from our previous debate: every time it's not at the level we want, we have to learn from it. Every time a user reports an experience that it has been too far to the help he or she needs, we need to learn. And every time patients experience falling between two levels of government, two sectors, and experience it as a stranger, we have to learn from it. It's once again about the culture we need in a service where we're all confident that those who work there are doing everything they can to give patients good deals and a good everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1480	I would like to thank you for your answer. I think there is quite a broad consensus that we will strengthen this area for this patient group, and I perceive that the Council of State and I have conflicting views on the challenges that are. I am pleased that the Council of State mentioned the national supervisor, and I also perceived that national professional guidelines for this group will be taken into account. Other things that I think were important were highlighted, that the patient himself has to be involved in designing the offer, that where the offers are not good enough, we also have to learn from it, and that the patient experience and the family experience must ultimately benefit patients. A few other issues that I would like to address relate to the law on children as a relative, which was introduced in the Health Care Act and the Special Health Service Act in January 2010. It is a little too early to have an overview of the experience that has been gained, but it is in any case certain that there is a lot of heavy responsibility that rests on children who have sick parents. We've been into some of this, and a lot of kids get good follow-up by a pediatrician and through a health center and a school, but too many don't get it. The research network BarnsBest contributes a lot of knowledge in this field, and they have pointed out that there is a great need for more competence development and resource deployment, not least in the primary health service. The second is research. There is little research in this area in Norway, and otherwise in the world as well. The only thing we know is that there is a research environment in Umeå, Sweden, where Professor Peter Andersen is researching this disease. I would like the Council of State to make some observations on how much more research could be done in this area in Norway, perhaps if you could go into a research collaboration with this environment, with the research team in Umeå, Sweden. There are not many patients involved, and this may be an area where you can have a common Nordic field of research.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1491	I'm not going to extend this by anything but saying that the need for competence is important. I feel that we have a health care system that places increasing emphasis on it, and puts it in context with increased quality in treatment. This with children and relatives is something we have mentioned in the notice of tomorrow's care. Just to make the reference that is sometimes misunderstood in Norwegian debate: In fact, in recent years, the pressure on care services has not come from them over 67 but from them below. This is also part of it, and it's clear that then we get into the relative constellations other than we do with our very oldest. When it comes to research, I think I have to get a little bit more involved. This is a disease that affects the whole world, so if you're going to form a picture of the research effort and what we can possibly contribute to there, I think we're going to serve out the Knowledge Centre's ability to identify what's going on. The fact that research takes place in Sweden is important – I do not rule out any research being carried out in Norway. The advantage of the Knowledge Centre is that it can quickly identify what is going on, what may be relevant to Norwegian environments, and whether they have a competence to increase progress in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1500	I would like to thank the interpellant who addresses the challenges facing people with the disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, ALS. Today, we are experiencing great progress in knowledge of many diseases, but ALS is still a disease without a known cause, and there is no treatment that can make patients healthy. Most people hit are in the middle of their lives. Many still care for young children. Health services’ tasks go far beyond curative work. The old bids of Hippocrates from a time of small treatment options are still valid: sometimes cures, often relieve and always comfort. The first commandment is the easiest when knowledge exists. Relief and comfort challenge fellows and helpers. We have both consciousness and professional ethics on this. The bids for relief and comfort are life threads in health services and between all people. On his 50th birthday, Swedish television journalist Ulla-Carin Lindquist was diagnosed with ALS. During the short period of her illness, she wrote the book "Roo without veins". The publisher writes on the cover: ‘It is the worst of all neurological diseases. It may not be cured.’ In the book she depicts what it's like to stand face to face with death. She will leave the spouse and four children, two of whom are minors. This is a wise, dense and very well written book. It gives some of the answers that the interpellation is seeking. The ten - year - old son writes in his diary: "Mommy has a disease that makes the nerves make her muscles weaker. She's got it in her right arm, leg and left arm. I feel sorry for Mom. Mom can't go up stairs, carry, run, jump, wash her hair, etc. She doesn't work that much. Mom won't get out of bed that fast. She seems to feel sorry for me. I just think it's fun to help her. I want her to write a diary, because then I can read it when she's dead." The book tells about the fight against regulation, about good times with helpers and family, about deep sorrow, pain and great concerns, but also about humor that comes in safe proximity between people. The youngest son stands one day next to his mother: "Mom, every second is a life," he says softly. Where did you get that? Nowhere. I figured it out now. And he continues: "You have hundreds of thousands of lives left, Mom. Every second is a life.» People who get ALS will need many types of treatment, help and care. Muscle strength is fading and symptoms are increasing, weak breathing and need for help with breathing, swallowing problems and need for help with nutrition, pain because sensation is intact, but movements are inhibited, speech is weakened because the muscles can no longer shape the words. But consciousness is crystal clear and emotions and thoughts as before. The help must be appropriate for the person concerned and therefore individual. There are many decisions that are difficult – treatment that gives hope, but also side effects, and treatment that prolongs life but cannot make the muscles healthy. We have guidelines in many of the professional areas that are important for patients with ALS, such as home respiratory therapy, life-long treatment and treatment for malnutrition. As mentioned in the article, the disease does not affect thought and intelligence. In the final evaluations on the adequacy or complementarity of existing guidelines, the best advice could come from the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1543	When I saw this interpellation coming, I thought first, is this also politics? But after hearing the interpellation, I have to say that it is the highest degree. I will be allowed to thank you for the fact that the matter has been brought to this room and for the way it was brought here. I'm not going to say that it was good, but at least thought-provoking and gripping stories that gave us an insight into a terrible disease and what someone experiences when they get it. Some of us have been so unfortunate to experience this disease closely. In my case there was a good colleague who got it, and I recognize a lot of the stories of what was said from this pulpit. I am very pleased that the council replied as he did, and took this very seriously. The questions that are raised today, I see as two-three essential questions about this disease, which we all know is one of the worst things you can experience. One is the hope that must lie, and that lies with everyone, about what the future can bring, which brings us to the research question, which also interpellant took up, and where I also think the council gave a very good answer. This is a disease in which there is so little that large international cooperation is likely to be needed in order to move forward. I understood the Council of State there that he was most willing that Norway should be involved as a spearhead in this. Whether research takes place in Norway or elsewhere, we can probably contribute in many ways. That's what many people can live with. Another thing you have to expect when you experience such a serious illness is that the treatment you receive must be equal to that of the whole country. The disease may be different, but it should be taken seriously and given the same offer where it is possible to give the same offer. As we have seen in one of the cases that have been brought up in the media, you experience that you do not get an offer that you would get if you lived elsewhere in the same situation. It shouldn't be like that, and I think we can all agree on that. I also realized that the Council of State came to a close by saying that we have to have the national guidelines that we need to deal with in the same way anyway. This disease tells us all how inadequate we are as politicians, it I think tells the Norwegian health care system how inadequate it can at times be, and not least shows how inadequate we can be as humans. But we can be fellow humans, and we can bring up the questions that make those who are so unfortunate to get this disease get the best treatment in the time that has to be left. It's a disease that travels many ethical dilemmas. There are patients who want to end treatment as early as possible, other patients who want to extend treatment for as long as possible. All patients deserve to be taken seriously, and so should this disease. Once the matter has been raised in this room, I believe and hope that we can proceed from today's meeting and agree that we shall jointly invest in research both nationally and internationally to see if we can find solutions in the future. We must agree that there should be equal opportunities for treatment and for the care and care you need when you get this disease. And we're going to agree that as a society we're going to facilitate everything for those who are so unfortunate to get this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1560	Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a serious disease that is very demanding also for the patient’s relatives. The interpellant of my offer is deficient and demand professional national guidelines. The Minister of Health today gives a full response to the need for health and care services for these patients and the way in which professional care should be provided, both in the local health service and in the specialist services, and the way in which cooperation between the levels of services should be optimised for the benefit of the patient. It is shown that there are professional guidelines, for example: on respiratory care and nutrition, but I also understand that there must always be some discretion in assessing the professional guidelines for each individual patient, and that there may be differences that should not be too large. But it has to be an individual assessment. I don't really have much to add to the debate, because a lot of wisdom has been said, but I just want to give my support to the interpellant, who is dealing with the matter, and to the Minister of Health's answer. I can understand that ALS challenges the Norwegian health system at its very best, because it is a very serious disease with demands for high competence and professional care, while having regular care and very good communication, and because it is ethically demanding both in terms of treatment choices and in terms of dialogue with the nearest. Health not only treats the patient, but treats the whole family. I want to tie some words to the relatives, who are weighted. Most ALS patients will live in their homes for much of the disease period. It is very important to focus on clear and honest information for patients and relatives. There may be a heavy burden on relatives if they do not take seriously the situation of their dependants. They need a great deal of knowledge about the disease and training in disease development in order to be able to feel security. I am pleased that in the big news of tomorrow's care, it will be emphasised just this with increased efforts for the relatives and their rights and needs. What is with ALS is that it can often be young relatives, that it can be young people or children. Adult relatives will not only need information about disease and disease development, but also, for example: about financial arrangements that they might have questions about: I need leave from work to be at home, what kind of financial arrangements do I have? And what kind of agreements can we get with the municipality? Is BPA an option? And so on. I'm going to think that the patients and the relatives have a lot of questions, and that there can be a lot of uncertainty. This is where the public has to come in and be very clear. It is important that the public health service provides good professional judgements that you trust, that you provide security for assistance and relief, and that you provide it as needed and at the patient’s request. The keyword here is that the patient and the relatives should be treated with dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1573	I want to thank the interpellant, Sjøli, for addressing this matter. I have even seen the disease ALS in my own family and can sign that it is a terrible disease that puts both patients and relatives in a very difficult life situation with great mental challenges. I would also like to thank the Council of State for a comprehensive and good review of the offers that the State can make for ALS patients and their relatives. In the statement by the Council of State – and so far also in the rest of the debate – there is one point I still miss. In the case of ALS that I know from my family, it was also very strong and touching to record the affectionate and sacrificing efforts of the spouse to give her seriously ill husband care and care. The invaluable efforts that relatives can contribute to the care of ALS patients are often forgotten when we seek to establish good public services. Of course, efforts by relatives cannot replace the necessary medical expertise, but it may be a supplement that significantly contributes to improving the quality of life of ALS disease. The legislation allows Norwegian municipalities to grant care allowances to family members who will care for their immediate family members at home, whenever possible. Unfortunately, care pay is a system that is weighted and practiced differently from the municipality to the municipality. In my home municipality, Averøy, a care strategy has been developed, where care pay is one of the offers to be assessed in care for the elderly and in the course of a disease, such as: ALS. The Council of State may say something about how he assesses the possibility of providing care pay increased status and a more central place in municipal health care, for example. through increased transfers to municipalities to strengthen the scheme and through state guidelines on how to implement the scheme in municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1582	I take the last one first: I am glad that the representative Reiten highlights the efforts of the relatives. It's demanding, and it's invaluable to the patient. I agree that it must be well arranged so that you can have a good time together. I was in my previous post with children as a relative, and we know that the specialist health service has put in place a system of child-responsible personnel. In the outpatient clinics and the somatic wards of hospitals, several sites are also working to build up capacity to meet the needs of parents in the event of a serious illness. However, according to BarnsBest, there is a lack of competence and alertness to this need in primary health care. So there is a great need to build up both the capacity and competence of community health services and health centres, so that the children concerned — in kindergartens and schools — can also benefit from this competence. As far as research is concerned, I am pleased that the Council of State will be able to identify what research is available. As far as I know, there is little research into this disease both in Norway and in the rest of the world. But in a doctoral thesis of Knut Dybwik from 2011, it was pointed out that the family's biggest challenge was the fight against the system, i.e. the fight against community health and ethical challenges, including: home respirator treatment. Finally, I would like to thank you for the debate. I feel that everyone who is here is concerned about improving the conditions in both the specialist health service and the community health service. I believe that we need to come back to several of the questions we have talked about now in connection with the handling of Message. St. 29 for 2012–2013 Tomorrow’s care. It's quite natural to deal with these questions there as well. We're going to deal with it in the spring. Finally, it's our care for the sickest and weakest that's the goal of the quality of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1595	The representative Per Arne Olsen said that he had made up his mind when he saw this question promoted as interpellation, and I understand what he is thinking. I'm assuming that it's a little bit in the direction of whether we're going to treat disease after an open-story disease. But I think that this debate has shown that the interpellant deserves homage, because there has been a debate on the issues that it is relevant to debate here, namely how we are facilitating people with this serious disease who, on the basis of a need for care, engage in many of the other care tasks that health and care services have been set up to care for. That's why it's not a separate ALS supervisor, but it's counsellors dealing with several of the sides that the typical ALS patient meets. I agree with the representative, Sjøli, who says that we will return to many of these questions when we debate the care message. I believe that there is also an opportunity for us to debate some of the things that the representative Reiten was concerned about, namely how we meet the relatives and those who relieve our society in an incredible way by their efforts. In the care message, we have discussed it in quite detail. Among other things, we have describe what this means in a combined sense — whether or not we can venture to use a concept such as ‘value creation’, which I refuse a little, because this is reflected in a formal sector, while it is in the informal sector. We also address the question of how we can further develop arrangements for the relatives, so that they can actually be related and provide care and combine it with other phases of life. Then we have questions about leave, compensation schemes and that kind of question. I believe the care message, which we receive later in ours, is a fine further step on what the interpellant has invited us to today, and for which I would like to thank her again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1607	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1621	The Judicial Committee promotes a unanimous stance to amend the penal code of 1902 on what is called ‘public place, public action, etc.’. These changes mean that statements made in public space could be prosecuted independently of the medium in which they are made. In fact, for some criminal orders, they must have been carried out in public in order to be punishable. This applies, inter alia, to: public call for criminal offences and public disclosure of information infringing personal and private life. The background to the case is now a confession in the Supreme Court Appeals Committee in August 2012, where the ruling was that a threat posed in the blog on the Internet was not considered to be ‘public’ in the sense of criminal law and was therefore not found to be punishable. There was a minority in the Appeals Committee of the Supreme Court in the case that stated that the old definition of the penal code of 1902 on statements made in the ‘Printed Scriptures’ was criminal. The minority believed that according to the circumstances of the day, the term would include something broader, so that opinions on the Internet would also be punishable, in line with the intention of law. The majority at least argued that the blog and the threats it was about, were not criminal, and therefore there has been a need to clarify and update the law. It is also in line with the new Penal Code of 2005, where these criminal provisions have been made media-neutral, so that we update the penal code of 1902 according to what is in the Penal Code of 2005, which has not yet been implemented. There's another problem that Stortinget is familiar with. The Committee emphasises that in public space, opinions made on the Internet — even if on closed websites requiring passwords, logins and membership — can also be viewed as part of public space, somewhat depending on form and scope. Such statements may then be punishable irrespective of the place in the world in which they are made, as long as the opinion is intended for Norwegian public and Norwegian public spaces. Then there are some problems about the difficult word ‘legal’ that apply when opinions are made abroad, which the Committee asks for further investigation and which the government has also notified. However, the Committee does not want this to prevent the entry into force of the legislation. That's the question you have to get back to. We are pleased to update the current law of 1902 at this important point and therefore recommend a unanimous setting, as it is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1636	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a very thorough presentation of an important matter – a matter that has received proper and rapid treatment both in the Ministry of Justice and here in Stortinget. The issue is to adapt the penal code to current circumstances in terms of what is a public place and public action, and to take into account that we have, and get, a large digital venue for opinions, which of course also has to be included when calculating and demarcating public place and public action. I will not elaborate more on what the rapporteur said in a good way. I just want to grasp one element that is in the position of the Justice Committee, which is just going on with the fact that, as the Committee points out, password-based websites, i.e. typical arenas such as Facebook and other social media, are also important. It is important that we ensure that these media too are clearly covered by this concept and this change in the law. I want to illustrate with an example from my municipality of residence just how important it is to take into account that we have a way of teaching Internet users that what you write there, even though it is on a password-protected website like that. Facebook, is the same thing as saying it in a public meeting. In my home municipality, there was a controversial case for treatment in the local government this year. It was about continued operation or not of a gravel roof. There was a lot of discussion in the local environment, as we know it from local politics; it's often like that. The majority of the municipal council made a clear decision on the further operation of the gravel roof, and that is when the matter arises that I would like to refer to in order to exemplify the significance of this amendment. Because then there is an affected resident who writes the following on Facebook: All the politicians who voted for the further operation of the gravel roof should have a neck shot. This is on Facebook a few minutes after the decision has been taken. I would like to add that the person who wrote this, when he was confronted with it by the rapporteur in the municipality, immediately deleted the post. But the damage had already happened. It just underlines the importance of the fact that we from Stortinget give a clear signal that such expressions, such formulations, are unacceptable even in the sense of law, regardless of which password routines are associated with this. It also includes social media, and I'm glad that the Storting thus gives a unique signal in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1647	This amendment to the law, as the rapporteur explained, has been based on the fact that the Appeals Committee of the Supreme Court rejected the allegation of the recognition by Gulating Lawyers that a blog cannot be regarded as public under the criminal law. So it was a blogger who was meant for publicly calling for the killing of police officers. The recognition of Gulating Lawyers' Rights and of the Supreme Court was contrary to the criminal law of 2005, which has not entered into force, and a reasonable interpretation is probably also that the judgment was contrary to the intentions of the lawmakers of the penal code of 1902. At least it is clear that it was perceived as contrary to what is currently the current perception of what is public, and it was obviously contrary to people's sense of justice. That is why it was good and right that the Ministry of Justice reacted quickly and sent a proposal for a change in the law to be heard. In the SV's opinion, there would have been an entirely unsustainable legal situation regarding online opinions, except for the responsibility for statements on paper. Blogging and other channels on the Internet have an obvious potential for publicity that is a lot bigger than paper. And we have experience that the Internet is a channel that has been used to spread hate propaganda, encourage terror or degrade public debate, as Mr. Werp explained. Today, we unequivocally state that this is to be affected by the penal code. We're happy about that, and it was absolutely necessary to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1658	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President shall propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice. 6 and 7 will be treated together. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1685	The Committee has been fully in agreement on this matter and points out that the main responsibility of the carrier towards passengers is strengthened and expanded. The amount of liability is significantly increased by objective liability up to a limit of 250000 SDRs per passenger and subjective liability up to a limit of 400000 SDRs. The Committee also points out that the Athens Convention introduces a requirement for compulsory liability insurance for passenger ships carrying more than 12 passengers. As regards the economic and administrative implications, the Committee points out that the new regulation will, as I said, strengthen the protection of passengers in the event of damage at sea. I expect everyone to be aware of the discrimination that has taken place following the ‘Costa Concordia’ accident, among other things, which has just affected this. The Committee notes that the introduction of compulsory civil liability insurance could lead to a certain increase in ticket prices for passengers, but since the regulation and the legislative proposal as a whole strengthen passengers’ financial security for any claims for compensation, the Committee considers that it provides a basis for acceptance. Higher industry insurance costs may involve increased costs for the country and the county, as domestic boat and ferry routes are also included in public purchases of services. This means that increased costs will also have to be considered here. Finally, the Committee points out that the Ministry wishes to authorise the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs to charge a fee for the issue of these certificates, on the basis of the fact that certificates must be drawn up in line with the legislative proposal and that the inspection of ships entering or departing from Norwegian ports carrying more than 12 passengers has the necessary insurance and certificates in place. The Committee assumes that there is no discrimination between Norwegian and foreign ships as regards the collection of fees for the enforcement of the bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1703	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1715	It is better to prevent than to repair. It takes a village to raise a child, it says. That's true. Had all families adult role models, and all neighbors, sports teams, schools, kindergartens, child protection services, Nav offices, specialist health services, case handlers, municipalities, etc., etc. done a perfectly perfect job, the job we're going to do in the justice sector would be a completely different one. For the most important — misunderstand me correctly — justice policy in terms of instruments is not in the Justice Committee or the Ministry of Justice. They are located quite elsewhere and form even almost the entire village, and can prevent and prevent crime and some of them go to prison. Man has the ability to do both good and bad, and there are people who commit crime. Crime is not something that is, it's something that remains, by deciding that something should be defined as crime. Some actions are defined by some as ‘culture’. This means that some people decide that some others are second-rate, either because of what is in a thousand-year-old thick book, written by and for men, or because of an established practice for ‘good boys’, which makes sure to win markets in a tough competition, without any more ethical counter-representation or culture that it is subject to criminal law. In Norway, what the majority now define as unculture and crime can be defined as the very opposite of some others, whether you come from a country of so-called different culture or are part of a more neat and decorative bunch that seems exactly the part of the penal code that transforms their activity, is really quite careless and unnecessary. There is something wrong with the law and the state, they will often still think when they are released one day – and they will. And then they keep going. But almost no matter what the individual has committed – and thinks and thinks – I am glad to see that a person who has committed crime can only be defined as evil or can get the label criminal or completely without the ability to change. Perhaps with the exception of the pure psychopaths, almost everyone who has committed a criminal act has in common that they still have the ability to act both good and bad, that is. that they have in common that they are human. Just as little as it's considered a modern, effective and good child education to throw children into a dark butt and throw the key, it works well for adult people when they're going to learn to take responsibility for their criminal acts and preferably end up with them after x number of years in meeting with Norwegian criminal services. They will meet and make an offer to all the different inmates, who are no less different than people outside the walls – anything from those who think that homs should dangle in the candlesticks and women should not go free, to those who are completely disagreeable with the former, but who think it is okay to cheat the community for funds because the victim is then more invisible, to those who almost feel freer in prison than outside because life outside was not so much to talk, and to those who struggle on all fronts and owe on everything and everyone for their situation. All of these people have a responsibility to the criminal services, and the expectations are often that criminal services will solve everything in the individual prisons that the rest of the village didn't do until he or she ended up behind the walls. So it's better to prevent than to repair. In some cases, the very concept of ‘criminal treatment’ has a negative sound because, in some people, it sounds as if there is no care for victims of crime. One thing is that we need our own national victim care. But I believe that the term ‘criminal care’ signals a principleal and cross-political choice. It expresses the belief that some actions harm individuals and communities as much as they do, and that it is simply by caring for society and the victims that they are trying to figure out why the criminal acts happened and what they are doing to ensure that they do not happen again. It's showing respect for the real causes of crime and its real impact. The logic behind this is, of course, that one can never be held responsible for individuals without treating them as just that – individuals. That is exactly what many voluntary and private initiatives have really understood. The right justice fraction visited one of these in March, the successful action Network after settlement, directed by the Red Cross. Like a large number of other small organisations, these work with much of the same problem, namely that it is not easy for those released from Norwegian prisons to return to the so-called normal society. A little discretion just: I had a summer job at Hassel prison a few years ago. Then I was going to be with some inmates who were going to practice going to the store. The dispatcher was so strange to me. There could probably be a lot of reasons why she did it, but anyway: Her experience was that these people had a lot of trouble going to the store and shopping. One of those I went with, couldn't get anything, to go to the store was a big step for him. This is a reality that a large part of us so-called normal people who haven't sat behind the walls, not quite manageable to understand can be so difficult that it's actually for some that it's much easier to commit crime and the worst actions. But that's the situation of release for some. So half of those who are released come back to prison. Rest problems, refusing to create a bank account – and not least debt problems – can explain much of this. Hubs must have a role that they do not necessarily play, and public opinion is often perceived as being less solution-oriented. There are many prisoners who get bigger debts while in prison, because the debt runs and runs. We've been in contact with people who say they're a lot more rescuers for the envelopes that come in the mailbox from the public than for any gang that's standing in front of them with balts. In fact, some people think it's easier to get rid of drug debts, because there's some kind of moral indebtedness by going to prison. The public, with its envelopes, actually contributes to the increase in debt. There are examples of people who are sitting on open ground and have committed crime asking to be relocated to the closed section. They know that they're never going to be able to pay their bills, and they're just afraid that they have to race again to get the peace of some of the envelopes that are coming. I think about the costs of society as a whole, and not least for the victims. It's not just the inmates who are struggling with the so-called normal society. It also does the organisations that will try to help the prisoners. It is well known that many organisations get a lot out of each penny, and in several fields it is absolutely necessary to have hope for an inmate who is released at all. One thing is what these organizations get out of each krona, but if you had calculated how many dollars it costs in bureaucracy and work for them to get each krona from e.g. the government to carry out well-functioning work for had probably been quite gloomy. If you add some of the frustrations of organisations over what large public systems often do for their users, the accounts will be unnecessarily poor. There is a reason why a strong turn of funds should be sought into documented effective, preventive and rehabilitative work, as is always done to individuals under the authority of voluntary and private initiatives. The purpose of the victim is, in fact, the most important thing in the Right's view in order to strengthen the type of organisation mentioned in this interpellation, simply so that they can contribute to the fact that the individual who has committed crime for various reasons actually learns some of his actions, learns to take responsibility, and actually has to deal with what he or she has done has offended another person. It learns very much from Norwegian prisons and only in meeting with reality outside – and would like to meet with the victim, if they want to. So to the slightly open issue of the Council of State, which I hope it is possible to think about – there is a lot of common political thinking here, but I think we can share quite a lot of the reality that many prisoners meet regardless of party color and country borders: what will the Council of State do to ensure that measures such as this are taken? Networks based on reconciliation and the experience and competences of others are used and strengthened to enable sentences to be returned to society?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1738	I would first like to thank the representative, Mr Dahl, for the interpellation. Reducing relapses to new crime is important to the government, which I know there is also a broad consensus about here in this house. St.meld. No 37 on punishment, which has been effective since September 2008, has led the government’s policy towards better criminal justice. I dare say that the government's return guarantee, which was launched in the notification, is a significant contribution in this way. The voluntary sector plays an important role in achieving the goals we have set. In particular, voluntary organisations may contribute to networks, proximity and friendship in a way that is different from that of public authorities. Networking after settlement in Oslo Red Cross is one of many measures NGOs have launched to contribute to a better return. I will come back to the main question of what we are doing in concrete terms, and I intend to do so in order to ensure that the competence and experience of such measures can be used and strengthened in the work on repatriation. But first I would like to comment on some of the elements the representative mentions, which make prisoners struggling to come back to society, and which the government is working on. Interpellant claims that half of those released return to prison. There is a Nordic comparative study of relapses among all those released, from the 2005 judgment, which showed that about 20 pst. a new prison sentence or sentence was committed within two years of release. But it is important to say that relapses vary considerably between different types of crime. It's true that a lot of people are struggling to get back to society. Various studies have shown that prisoners have a strong overrepresentation of growth problems, drug problems, mental distress, unemployment, housing shortages, inadequate schooling and education. There is a clear causal link between these problems and crime. For those who wear the most, they represent voluntary very valuable networks. Debt problems are a major problem for many prisoners. It is often about both so-called black and white debt. Debt problems are burdensome for many released. Recently released persons who want to get away from their criminal past and establish themselves in the housing or labour market can often be hindered by a disorderly debt situation. It is as is known the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion that administers the Debt Scheme Act. BLD will promote a billing proposition for the Storting during the spring. It will be proposed to make it easier for convicted offenders in a rehabilitation situation to have a debt arrangement. This is also likely to make it easier for released persons to cope reasonably well with the debt burden. Most large municipalities have debt advisors who can also use prisoners and former prisoners. It is a challenge to put the prisoners who need it, in contact with the advisers. A problem that cannot be addressed either by the debtors or by the public at large is the black debt that many previous prisoners have. Unfortunately, it can be as burdensome both economically and mentally as the public debt. There are important elements in a back-up process that voluntary organisations cannot or shall not take care of. One of these elements is services from Nav. The Ministry of Justice and Defence therefore works in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Nav to improve the access of prisoners to these services, both during acquittal and after release. We have just received a final report on the ‘From Prison to Qualification Programme’ project, called the KVP, which went into seven prisons. Among other things, it points out: that contact between criminal services, Nav and the municipality should be significantly strengthened. Similarly, Nav’s presence in prisons should allow even better preparation of the time after release. Questions about work, debt and, in particular, housing are important elements of this cooperation. During the spring, the government will look at how this cooperation can be strengthened. I want to be very clear that it is the public services that are the bearer of the repatriation of prisoners to society. Let me then take a closer look at the question from the representative Oktay Dahl and what role volunteers can play in the return. Voluntary organisations are very important complements to public services. The sentencing sentencing penalty, which works, underlines the importance of cooperation with voluntary organisations for a successful return to society. Volunteers have a very important role to play in the government's return guarantee. At the same time, the government has strengthened its return efforts in several ways. We said in the big news that we should expand and improve the coordination and organisation function of criminal services. We have done that by establishing 25 positions as feedback coordinators. They work all over the country and coordinate, inter alia: the efforts of volunteers in the public sphere. The return guarantee has led to an intensification of cooperation with municipalities, counties and – not least – Nav. This also benefits voluntary organisations. We also said that we should set up a service square in the prisons. This has now occurred in all major prisons and also in many prisons with lower levels of security. Voluntary fixed meeting and office hours are offered in the service square in line with Nav and other public agencies. This helps organisations to come into contact with prisoners, to provide services and to establish contacts to prepare post-release measures. In the context of the implementation of the return guarantee, the central administration of the Criminal Service conducted a survey of voluntary organisations and the units of criminal justice. It resulted in the report ‘Free and Willing’, which came in December 2011. It turned out that it is approx. 85 associations and teams offering their services to prisoners. Of course, there is a difference between prison and prison, but overall I can say from the report that there has been and is a good cooperation between voluntary and criminal services. The report concluded by pointing out the following: ‘To optimise cooperation there must be predictability, organisation and binding cooperation structures’. But the most striking point, seen from the volunteers' side, was and is economic predictability. Annually, funds are spent on budget chapter 430 Central government of Crime Prevention Item 70 — grants to the volunteers. This year the total is approximately 23.7 million. kr on this item. Of these, approximately 17.3 million is distributed. kr as earmarked funds in the budget proposal, mainly to non-governmental organisations. 6.4 million. be published as a means to be applied for on a voluntary basis. This year, 26 organisations have applied for some 21 million. kr. It shows the willingness of organisations to contribute. Many of the same organisations are looking for several departments and directorates for money for the same projects. There is a clear question that can be discussed about the extent to which the public can provide financial support to non-profit organisations. The limits also for when volunteering ends and the real responsibility of the public should not be liquid. Again, clear roles and responsibilities are important. The answer to what I would like to do to ensure that competence and experience are used and strengthened in the process of repatriating prisoners, therefore, I associate primarily with professional cooperation and not just with financial support. Nor should we fully fund the non-profit organisations, because voluntary efforts are: voluntary – but where public support can still play a crucial role. We have arranged with the service doors and given the volunteers a good opportunity to participate in a multidisciplinary collaboration with the prisoners and with public agencies. We have also included, through the feedback coordinators, the volunteers in an overall effort for a better life without crime after acquittal. Crime prevention has a special responsibility to include, coordinate and disseminate the experience and knowledge of volunteers in order to further strengthen cooperation. I look forward to continuing good cooperation with the volunteer organisations. The government has increased the amount allocated to such measures, and – as said – some funds are earmarked, others are eligible to apply for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1782	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It was referred to as St.meld. No 37 for 2007-2008, we were all about that. There were important value choices that were made. At the same time, criminal services themselves now report that the objectives we set there cannot be achieved. A capacity plan for political treatment in Stortinget would have been desirable. Organisations spend too much time on bureaucracy and follow-up, so that the money they receive is not used in the best possible way. It also reports the criminal justice system even in its activities. I think the Council of State answered well, but the starting point for the interpellation is how to see the volunteers much more and have an understanding of the situation in which they operate. An example is WayBack Bergen – I guess so – who has fought to get an extra million dollars to make a resource booklet nationwide. It is used by staff in criminal matters as a training booklet for their activities. I understand that they think it's a little strange that they're going to fight for a million dollars to make a booklet about something like criminal care, with millions of dollars, not good for yourself. There's something about big versus small systems thinking in a little bit of different ways. There are many organisations, not just in the field of justice, that don't exactly feel that departments or the big bureaucracies have a very strong understanding of their everyday lives. Nav is a giant, and the challenges we face with the Nav reform are not exactly small in terms of this group. I agree that the public is the bearer, but it helps little if – I kept saying – the nail is not there. That's actually what the volunteer organizations are -- to create the whole house and the village that's going to. I wish I had even a little clearer thoughts. I fully agree with the division of roles, but I want a greater understanding of the situation of volunteers in the job they do. I'm glad the Council of State is honest about the numbers when we talk about the rate of relapse, because there are statistical challenges. It's only two years of measurement, and the types of crime are very different. I think that’s very good – so we don’t just immediately say that everything is very good in all fields in Norway when it comes to relapse. Then I want to say something at the end: I have attended a number of meetings in so-called individual cases – with child protection, with health care and with others. I really have to say that very many of the public servants I've met – a part of them, and with a lot of education and a lot of so-called competence – don't understand what the drug addict or the lady who is losing her child to child protection says. Then I have to say that it's actually about – even when it comes to prisoners and other people with problems – that you might have to have had the problems yourself in order to understand what it's all about, and to be willing to help. That's where the private come in.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1797	I see here that we agree on the objectives, and that the means, that is, good cooperation with the volunteers, is important in order to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves in criminal matters. There's a lot going on, and I'm not going to repeat the points I had in the main answer, but emphasizes that here there's a positive development in the good process that also involves the volunteer organizations. More money would always be nice to have. The appropriations have increased in recent years, and just as WayBack has made an impression on the interpellant, so has the organisation. If the organisation has good projects, there are funds to apply for — as is possible for other organisations as well. I'm not going to tire of repeating the review we had of the allocation procedures for non-governmental organisations, but I experience that we have put in place tidy procedures, and that we have also found a good mix of predictability through earmarked allocations and free resources that can be allocated upon application. One of the things volunteer organisations can offer is not least the possibility of dialogue with so-called equals. Some of the examples that I have heard myself say are just that. Again, how an organisation like WayBack has tried to use some of its experiences in developing its own method, which is also possible for criminal services, are good examples of the interaction that we're all concerned with. I look forward to continued good cooperation with non-governmental organisations on the important work of repatriating convicted persons to a crime-free life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1810	The representative, Octay Dahl, is addressing an important topic. There are many convicted people who have problems after the end of settlement. Many also had problems before atonement. In particular, this applies to those who have drug problems, who do not have a job and do not have a network. The most important thing we can do is to have a good prevention policy — ranging from safe growing-up conditions, good kindergartens and schools, well-developed health services, leisure services, work and labour market measures. We have this in Norway. Nevertheless, some fall outside. The risk of some of these entering crime statistics is high. We therefore need to put the effort in place as early as possible to help ensure that as few ports as possible in these statistics. In Norway, we have a good criminal code. There has been cross-political agreement on providing content in the settlement to make it possible for the individual convicted to live a life without crime after settlement. I am satisfied with the systematic follow-up of St.meld by the government. No 37 for 2007-2008, Punishment that works. Education and health services are provided in all prisons in the country. Drug supply is gradually being developed in both prison and outpatient care. Crime prevention cooperates with, for example, Nav, health companies and non-governmental organisations, each contributing in their own way to the repatriation work. 27 return coordinators are employed who are responsible for strengthening cooperation with external actors. This is, as the Council of State was in it, part of the surrender guarantee. The government has also made a lot of efforts to develop the skills of its employees. The employees are a very important resource. The representative, Octay Dahl, particularly points to the difficult economic situation of the released. The fact that many have debts is not particularly true for those who have been released, it also has people who have not been in prison. But the problem is that many convicted people have neither order nor income to pay their debts. I think the Council of State gave a good answer to how the big community should set up to find solutions to these problems. The voluntary organisations with which criminal services cooperate play a very important role in the repatriation work. We know that many of these organisations are particularly important in order for the convicted person to have a network after release, and thus have a greater chance of success outside prison walls. Networking after reconciliation is one of these organisations. It's quite touching to read on the Web sites of the Network after apologies for the 37-year-old family-father Arild Egeland, who spends his time volunteering through the Network. He says, "It is very rewarding to be voluntary. Joining the Network after atonement teaches me to think differently. [[...]] Everyone's so scared of everything. [[...]] Prisoners, immigrants. At the same time, you have to be prepared for tough stories. [[...]] Equally touching is reading about Steinar in 36 years. He will soon be released and will be in contact with the Network after settlement. He's in the network house as much as he can. In addition to various activities, he is also connected to a volunteer. Steinar is what we call a repeater, but now he has faith that he will be okay. He says, "There will probably be heavy times, but then I have people to support myself to. I have the Red Cross, which gives me friendship, family, and joy." I'm happy when I hear how much the volunteer effort means. We can be proud of the criminal services in Norway, but we can still be much better. We must continue to develop and develop services, and we must continue to increase the budgets of both the criminal services, the cooperating actors and not least the voluntary organisations. But the most important thing remains to bet on prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1838	Justice and justice remain important principles in criminal matters. We also have another important principle, namely rehabilitation. The community acknowledges that a criminal must not only be punished but also be encouraged to change behavior. The result of this recognition has not always been a desire for rehabilitation. The term ‘treatment’ has also been used in the past. The difference may seem insignificant and trivial, but it is important to be clear what is in the current concept. It is, after all, the content of the term that will ensure that criminals return to a law-abiding life after they have ended their stay in prison. So what happens inside the walls? What happens outside the walls? What's the difference between those who succeed and those who don't? The Council of State referred a little from the statistics on relapse rates. There's a statistics from 2001 to 2005 — that's eight years ago — so at least we need new statistics. I want to say a little bit about relapse statistics. Men have a greater share of relapse – 50 pst. – than women, who are 32 pst. The proportion of relapses is significantly reduced by increasing age among men, while the proportion of relapses increases up to the age group of 30–39 years among women, where it is at its highest by 40 pst. Victims of crime have a higher relapse rate – 61 pst. – than those who are only targeted for wrongdoing. There is the highest relapse among those who have gross theft and ran as their original main crime, and the relapse rate is 80 pst. Drug users have a higher relapse rate than targeted in other criminal groups, and they are at 68pst. More than half, i.e. 52 pst. of those targeted for relapsed crimes, had win- or drug crime as their last relapse offence. It's important to see that the individual criminal is an individual. When you release, there are many factors that determine whether you succeed or not. It's not just the possibilities of job and roof over your head that apply, but how you're motivated and ready for a new life, as well as your own self-confidence and mastery, family contact, prejudices out there, rushing and opportunities for new friends. Because it's a fact that it's easy to go back to environments where you were previously king of the hill. I believe that those who succeed best are often the ones who have gained a new content in their lives. Often it is seen that they have found love, or that they have found a new religious position. Here we see how important the private organizations are. The interpellant has recorded Networks after settlement, which cooperate closely with the Red Cross. We have WayBack, who has also been involved with others, who have fatherhood arrangements and peer-to-peer talks as their main principle. We have the Salvation Army, which has a special offer, Safe Way Home, to foreign criminals to be repatriated. It is therefore important that groups working with former prisoners facilitate the return of their beliefs. Many of those who have become criminals have themselves been victims in adulthood, but there are also criminals who have neither a drug problem nor who want to go into a law-abiding life. These groupings exist, and here we need to intervene more early and get them under control, even in the case of less serious crime, where history shows that it is escalating. Measures that can prevent new crime are important. That's why we need to be much more individualized about these measures. Every human being is unique, including the criminals. The public sector must not be the source of the burden on individuals, but must contribute in cooperation with released persons, with families and with organisations. This is how we will be able to succeed in the future, and so we will have the opportunity to adapt the work of criminal services to the individual.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1853	There is an important interpellation, with good response from the Council of State, but as important as an average relapse rate is the fact that there is a small group of repeaters who are responsible for the predominant part of the profitability crime. So it's a whole life of relapse, and the rush is a central part of the image for these recurrences. They are in a dance where drug abuse must be financed by crime, and it in turn sends them to prison. In addition to the addiction problem, many of these people have social problems that make it extremely difficult for them to restart after atonement. In addition to the obvious human disasters that lie behind each of these, this activity also leads to enormous socio-economic costs. The Council of State points out that it must be the public pillar of the process of repatriation and that the limits of the end of volunteering and of public responsibility must not become liquid. I allow myself to nuance this a little bit: we need volunteers who can do work that is not as easy to do by public servants; non-professional people who set up with commitment, humanity and solidarity. Of course, it makes no sense whether the public should pay this non-professional effort in full. Here the public task will be to provide support to ensure that it is possible to maintain just a voluntary unpaid exposure. We also have professionally competent environments in non-commercial organisations and foundations that can act as spearheads to develop new and better services. Here I am really the most concerned that good offers are actually not being financed, so we risk missing good offers that could have helped this group, and that could have given us lessons that the public could use. It's when life is difficult that it's important to think new, but it's not going to rock the public that's going to have the primary responsibility. It is obvious that cooperation is needed between criminal services, municipalities, police, the House Bank, psychiatry and other health services — and the voluntary sector. Oktay Dahl draws up Networks after reconciliation, which are operated by Red Cross. WayBack was mentioned. It gives me the opportunity to mention the project FRI, which is run by the Church's Bymition in Drammen and Tønsberg. Through the FRI, the detached cabin and a community are provided by other participants — volunteers, fathers and employees. After a time in the training home, or directly after the settlement, they will be able to move to their own apartments. In addition, the released offer of activities or paid employment. They work closely with Nav. Among several projects, this is an innovative social policy work in an area where we may have to admit that public – both state and municipality – have neglected. Motivation work is already under way in prison, usually through former prisoners involved in the project. The project has met locally with all possible goodwill among policy-makers and professional actors in the public utility sector, and not least in the business community. Nevertheless, it is threatened that local politicians – from the Oktay Dahl Party – do not give priority to this in their budgets. My answer then is not that the state should go into and solve the problems where the municipality will not prioritize, sail if I am concerned that it is important for the state to promote the development of methodology that should be used in many places in the country. But this interpellation provides an opportunity to focus on how important it is for everyone – both the state and the municipality – to facilitate the reversal of this vicious circle of repeat crime. These are often people who are affected by a heavy social heritage, with growing-up conditions that have not given them so many opportunities. Some and each of us might well recognize this and remember from our own growing-up people we went to school with, but who fell out early in school, who were sitting in the woods with the baptism while the rest of us went to the hour. And then we could have seen them in their short release periods, and then it's great to be able to meet some of these people on the street today, talk to them and hear that crime and rush are actually a time gone. It's possible, but to get this done, it challenges our solidarity at all levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1868	Several laymen from Norwegian prisons have compared their situation to being a refugee, or to coming from another planet. This is a situation that is difficult for many of us to get involved in. It makes it all the more important to listen to the experiences of those out there. The reasons for previous detentions from prison and the future as difficult may be many. Some have been screened for so long from society that the world out there has changed a lot. Some who may have been given peace during reconciliation must once again, by letting go, stick to old environment and temptations. Another known reason why the transition to life out there may be difficult is that after a longer stay in prison, there is a risk of being ‘Prisonised’, which it is so nice to call it. It is about adapting life and behaviour to the deterrent environment and the regime that is in prison. These are stories we hear from past insertion, and we have to take this seriously. There is a lot of talk in the justice debate today about criminalisation, punishment, police resources and the fight against drugs. All these are important topics of discussion, but they also take so much space that another important debate can drown a little at a time. And then I'm talking about this very debate that we have today, about how we ensure that people can come back to society after a break in prison. I think it's very good that the interpellant addresses this very topic. If you go into the research literature in this area, you can see some clear trends. One of them is that many of those in prison have drug crime as part of their sentence. Another trend is that the large number of people in prison also have a drug problem and/or a mental disorder. There are also other problems they need help to solve, which means that we need to focus on social measures. The Norwegian prison population must be given an opportunity to deal with problems while they are in prison. It can be drug abuse, mental abuse or health care of both a physical and a mental nature, and getting education and professional practice is very useful in creating a better future. We all understand that. All these are measures that this government has increased its focus in soning. In addition, it is important that we prepare and provide them with the necessary travel equipment to handle the world as best they can when they come out. The follow-up device must be clear when released. A dwelling should preferably be there, ready to move into. There must be a work or an activity that employs one, with an associated positive environment to become a part of. As much as possible must be clear before the insertion is dropped. Here we still have a way to go. But even if we have a way to go, and that this isn't easy to get in place, there's a lot of work done. I am among others very pleased with the efforts made by this government for alternative forms of reconciliation. The strong increase in the use of interlink zone is such a measure, which has a major impact in terms of successful return. It is also positive when the Council of State refers to rapid changes aimed at making it easier to get a debt regime for convicted persons in a rehabilitation situation. Finally, I want to commend all volunteers out there who are making an effort to help put back into society. I would also like to clarify the importance of good voluntary support schemes in this area. We rely on their help to be able to close with a return.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1885	I want to thank you for the debate, because I think it is important to have such a debate. There are some values we have in common, but we're not going to take those values for granted, because we're a small, rich country, and then it's easier to have – I was saying – a little bit of overbearing with a lot of things. At the moment that we may not be quite so rich anymore, we know that hot, prejudiced against minorities and those who are not exactly the most popular people in the world, namely people convicted of crime, follow the economic cycle quickly. So it's important that we can stick to something that's common to all parties. I agree with the Council of State that a lot is happening, and in some areas, of course, there is a positive development. We've made a lot of progress. Just the fact that we have a debate where all parties agree on some of these questions -- it wasn't like that a few decades ago. We have to be honest with each other that we have a common value base. I also agree that more money does not solve everything; we have to spend it as best we can. Therefore, it is important that we get even more research — that is to say, right — on what is happening in criminal matters, and on what can have a demonstrable effect. And that applies not least to the volunteers as well. For there are measures that have a good intention, which are called ‘voluntary’, and so dare politicians almost not to verify the money they receive, of fear of becoming unpopular, even though that measure may not be the best in the world. Now I don't mention anyone, but I've written someone behind my ear that I think might also be the Council of State thinking about. That is a reason why we had a review of grant schemes etc. to ensure that the money is used as best as possible. Then I want to go back to what I said in my previous post: What is competence? And what is prevention? I have a lot of pretty well-known people who have had drug problems and have been child protection children and ex-criminals, and who are now actually spending most of their time trying to help others. But what all of these tell me is that it's not exactly an easy job to be ex-criminal, ex-child protection, or ex-busy in front of the big public systems. The pretty many of them tell me, is that even if you have a paper, even though you are officially recognized as a public helper who is going to have competence and could most of it, it seems to a lot of them they meet, really don't understand any of what they say, and can't do much about their situation -- no matter how long education they have, and no matter how many years they've worked. Then I think no matter what ideological position you have, we have to make the big public systems work better. And that's where the volunteers come in, for the things at micro level to understand the needs and problems of each person, the problems that many have experienced in the eternal dance of the great public systems that haven't taken them seriously no matter how many they have met. So that challenge is at stake, and I hope for good interaction with the Council of State, possibly ex-sitting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1898	This debate is important, and I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising the question. I think it's a remarkable consensus we now have on how to work with the criminal services to get a punishment that works. This Council of States was delighted to do the preparatory work on the first criminal service notification, which came in 1998, and is now also pleased to follow up on the 2008 communication. We see that we have to work systematically to avoid also institutionalization through the actual compensation. Dealing with everyday life is too many prisoners demanding, and it becomes no less demanding after release. It can be related to addiction, work, economics, housing and also social life. That's exactly why this is the way we've organized our repatriation work, so important. Strong cooperation between public authorities is needed and a good network with voluntary organisations is needed. I had almost said that there are tasks here for everyone. I also feel that the way we have organized ourselves now makes it possible for volunteers to also make good efforts with good effect. I am particularly pleased, because this cooperation is very central to us, and we are in a privileged situation when we evaluate the many applications that come in. It's good suggestions for how to strengthen and improve an effort that we see getting better year after year, and that therefore we get a lot of money left for the money set aside for commitment, voluntary effort. As I said, the amounts have increased year by year in recent years, and I also see that there is room for further increase. The public systems have to work better, says the interpellant, and I can agree with that. At the same time, I'm glad that they're now far better than just a few years ago, and we're going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1908	So the debate is on case No. Eight is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1922	I Prop. 77 S for 2012–2013 on changes in the 2013 State Budget under the Ministry of Justice and Security, which deals with measures to strengthen social security and police preparedness, two chapters deal with the Directorate of Emergency Communications, namely Chapters 456 and 3456. Emergency networks are one of the largest investments in social security and preparedness undertaken in Norway, and the matter has been debated on several occasions in this Chamber in connection with state budgets, interpellations and not least when we dealt with Prop. 100 S for 2010–2011 in June 2011. I am not going to deal with all the elements that deal with this, but I am only going to focus on what this matter is about: briefly, it is now proposed that the voluntary rescue services organisations become users of the emergency networks, and that the state covers the initial investments in user equipment and the costs associated with the operation of the solutions and the subscription fees. This will cost 5.2 million in 2013. kr. With national emergency nets, the total cost for volunteers is estimated at NOK 51.7 million. For the treatment of Prop. 100 S in 2011 was an overall committee very concerned about this matter. It was underlined both in committee comments and in the debate that the voluntary emergency and emergency services organisations should be included as soon as possible. That is why it is a unanimous committee which today is very pleased that this matter is now most likely to receive a majority in the vote later today. The voluntary organisations make an important effort for society with limited resources, many of which have warned that they cannot use Emergency networks without such support as is now proposed. Such a decision means that the economy is no longer a barrier to increasing the social benefits of the Emergency Network, and more users provide greater security for the whole of society. Red Cross, Norwegian People's Aid, Norwegian Rescue Dogs and the Rescue Company's Marine Corps have participated in a trial project that has been very positive since the spring of 2011. It was used during the ski World Championship in Holmenkollen, it worked well on 22 July 2011 and in memory markings in retrospect, and in many searches for missing persons. Now all of these will have to keep the emergency equipment they have had to borrow during this trial period, approx. 140 portable radios, and in addition, the Emergency Communications Directorate will be able to initiate the process of providing several Emergency Radios to the volunteer organisations involved in the rescue services in the rest of the country. It is also gratifying that more people now have the opportunity to take part in the progress of Emergency Networks in emergency communication in Norway, which will facilitate the coordination of voluntary organisations and cooperation with other actors in major events. The Committee has noted that the rescue company has requested access in the Emergency Network on the same channel as is used for the emergency budgets jointly. It is possible that the rescue company should enter the same channel as the lifeboats. The Committee is aware that emergency situations are skeptical, but we nevertheless believe that this should be assessed. The rescue company is responsible for matters at sea and is the first voluntary organisation to enter the Emergency Network on a permanent basis. It is therefore appropriate to start a work assessing how and on which channels the Rescue Company is to enter into the Emergency Network Channel Configuration. For the Committee, it is important that this is properly treated, and we therefore ask the Ministry to start a process to get this evaluated. I hereby propose the unanimous recommendation of the Committee on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1945	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1959	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1968	I want to start by thanking the Committee for a good cooperation, and for having managed to agree on several points in the matter. I would also like to point out that although this case may not have been dealt with in the large national media, nor has it become the great ‘snackle’ out in ordinary people, it is an important matter that takes into account many aspects that will affect everyone, most of them – if not all of the inhabitants of Norway. Two consultation rounds have been held, and there has been a great deal of involvement with over 60 consultation responses in the first round and 27 in the second round, which clearly shows great commitment, and perhaps especially in the industry. As I said earlier in my post, the committee has worked well. With regard to the large lines, there is a great deal of consensus in the committee. But on some points, there's a little bit of disagreement, which I would like to briefly explain. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party propose to ask the Government to draw up guidelines on the security of goods and services supplied to critical digital infrastructure, which are largely coordinated with the defence's requirements for communications networks and communications equipment. With regard to the FRA Act, I must first say that I am very satisfied that the Committee is also concerned about the access that the law provides to the police and intelligence service of other authorities to see the content of e.g. e-mails and telecommunications of Norwegian citizens. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party will go further than the Committee. We suggest that the government address this issue with the Swedish authorities. The aim must be to ensure that such monitoring and storage of Norwegian citizens' e-mails in Sweden are no longer allowed, and that Norwegian citizens are guaranteed the same privacy in Sweden as Swedish citizens. Another area where there is some disagreement concerns the question of the use of cookies. Here the parties Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party will assume that it is sufficient to provide a general information on cookies, without details on specific capsules. Then there is disagreement in the Committee on National Burial Regulations. Government parties point out that new digging regulations are being developed and that they assume that they will contribute to a more similar practice between municipalities. The members of the Committee from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party indicate that it has been promised for several years that new digging regulations will be in place. The Progress Party believes that it is now time to get these regulations in place. As the municipalities around interpret this, this leads to very different practices. You have municipalities that have regulations that make it so expensive that not a single company can afford to install broadband or fibre cables, while others have regulations that make it very easy to get the cables out. The Right Party of the Christian Peoples and the Party of the Advancement therefore proposes: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up national digging regulations as soon as possible in line with the input from the ICT industry.’ In the case of § 12 on expropriation, there is an area where there is some disagreement. The majority of the Committee considers that the proposed text should be in place, while the members of the Committee from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Party for Progress want a change to allow the mobility of broadband cables and fibres to be treated in the same way as when moving, for example: power lines, street lights or any other cable in respect of costs associated with movement. Finally, I would like to point out that the Consumer Council has made a recording in connection with the fact that the commitment period is set at a maximum of 12 months at the time of the agreement, but that it is open that in exceptional cases it can be opened to extend this limit to 24 months. Here I would like to point out that it is important that this needs to be interpreted very strictly. In order to be able to assess 24 months, the assumption is that it will serve the customer. I also believe that it is very clear in the proposition. I don't see the big problem, but since some people point out that this is an important thing that you should take up from this pulpit, I want to do it. But I believe that the proposition has made it very clear that this is quite exceptional, and that the prerequisite for extending to 24 months is when it is for the customer’s best – not for the company’s best. I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party is either promoting with others or alone. I hope that as much as possible can join them, and that someone from the position could join in and support several of the proposals for which unfortunately there does not seem to be a majority, among other things. as regards the FRA Act and to have a large and good dialogue with Swedish authorities. It should be intensified, because it is totally unsustainable that the Swedish authorities provide police and intelligence services with full access to check the content of e-mails sent by Norwegian citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e1997	Electronic communications or echoes, which we use in this context, are important to most of us in order to make everyday life work. It's about the usual phone call with the mobile phone to agree who's going home from work on a trip. It's about the text message to the son or daughter with a reminder about the handball training, about the e-mail that needs to be sent before four o'clock, about checking Facebook for the last updates, about posting a two or downloading movies on the tablet. But it can also be about using new welfare technologies, so that we can stay at home longer when we get old. Electronic infrastructure is becoming more and more important to us, and the ecosystem is in great development both technologically and in terms of the number of providers of electronic services. The purpose of the eco-nomy law is to ensure good, reasonable and forward-looking electronic communications services to users throughout the country. This shall be done through the efficient use of societal resources by facilitating sustainable competition and stimulating business development and innovation. Broadband is an important part of the electronic infrastructure. Although Norway is at the top of the world in terms of broadband deployment and use, we in the Workers' Party are concerned that more people will be able to access wider broadband. This is particularly important for business. In order to find a good balance between the interests of the cable owners and the weighers in the construction of an eco-system, the department is in the process of promoting the much-mentioned digging regulations. This is a regulation that has been worked on for a long time and on which the industry has waited a long time. On our side, it is assumed that this regulation will help to resolve the conflicts that have arisen and that it will also help to eliminate the unfairness that the industry considers to be the obligation to move within the ecosystem. The security of the network and services is important. Security is both about a robust infrastructure and about the protection of privacy. This proposition rejects changes that will contribute to strengthening the stability of networks and services. The obligation of professional secrecy is also proposed. The fact that the law is now being amended so that users are informed if Norwegian internal communication is routed outside the country's borders and what consequences this can have enables us, as consumers, to choose another provider. In particular, the Swedish FRA Act allows traffic routing via Sweden to be a challenge to privacy. The proposal proposes to legislate a general rule on the maximum period of commitment for contracts between the provider and the end user of 12 months. This is a new provision designed to strengthen the position of consumers. Long binding prevents effective competition in the retail market. Therefore, it is important for us to clarify that when a rule of exception is proposed that allows for a binding period of 24 months in exceptional cases, this applies to exceptional cases. I want to finish where I started – pointing out that electronic communications are important to most of us. The proposals contained in this proposition for changes to the eco-nomy law address the changes that have occurred in this market in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2014	I want to start by thanking the case manager for an unusual interest in reaching an agreement. It is known that consensus is not exactly what the Progress Party prefers. On the contrary, a person wants to disagree a lot. In this case, however, I find that the case spokesperson has tried to gather the troops as much as possible. That's good. I have some comments when it comes to the proposals, including: proposal No 2nd@item: inlistbox One is talking about bringing down the costs in general in relation to the problem of the representative from Hoksrud. But then a person would like to impose requirements that the defense has in connection with communication and communication systems. In case it got multiples, it would lead to quite a large increase in costs for the one it had to pay. I think it is a little strange that one will go to work so strictly when one knows that it will increase costs and thus poorer supply. So the law of the FRA applies in Sweden, which I fully agree with the representative that is problematic. We have not discussed the DLD since the Data Storage Directive. The Right Party and the Labour Party ran it through, against the will of all other parties. Our problem is that we don't control Sweden. I'm not sure Hoksrud wants it, but at least it's not that the red-green government has the control there. There's something of the dilemma here. The representative Hoksrud knows that we have tried to have conversations with Swedish government powers about this FRA law, but one did not come in any way, because it is Sweden itself that decides its own laws. We just have to accept that. But I am not in doubt that the Minister for Transport has and wants to have a dialogue on this issue in the future. When it comes to this with the cookies, which became a topic at the bottom of the discussion in the committee, I feel that this now has the intention of strengthening privacy. Thus, all of us DLD opponents are very pleased that one sees these developments from the Minister of Transport. When the digging instructions are used, a comma will be returned to it. Of course, there are some complicated assessments that you have to make, but overall, I believe that it is important that we get solutions for laying the cable along and in the way that both the road is good – not least the Progress Party is interested in having a good path – and that we get an infrastructure for broadband and cables that makes us get a fast extension. So there's no rent that you've had before from the State Road Administration's side, but more of an obligation to move, which will also lead to better solutions. That's what we're all busy about. Finally, we in SV experience that the echomova, as it has been presented, and as we have discussed it in the committee and here now, have a good balance in relation to business interests and in relation to privacy interests – perhaps with the exception of what is attached to Swedish legislation, which we cannot do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2029	It's not always so easy to see what's going on when you have a little bit of a bad vision. My colleague and I sat in the hall, looked on the screen and saw the «Ekomlaw», and we found some that it looked like it said «Ekornlaw». It reminded me of the first time I heard about the raw fish law. I wondered why one in all the world had to have a own right for predatory fish. This is how it can happen when you look wrong or when you hear wrong. Electronic communications have played an important role in Norwegian society for decades. The development of communication has made us almost always available – and online. Communication today is more than just phone calls. This has led to the fact that, a few years ago, it was just a telecommunications network. Now, it is also necessary to handle large amounts of data that allow us to communicate with each other on different platforms. This requires that we stick to developments and constantly upgrade the infrastructure in order to meet new challenges. This means that there is a need for changes and adjustments to the framework both nationally and internationally, which is the reason for this change in the eco-innovation. I think it is right to remind all of us that the purpose of the eco-mlove is to ensure that users throughout the country are good, reasonable and forward-looking electronic communications services by using their resources effectively, facilitating sustainable competition and stimulating business development and innovation. Despite the fact that competition operates well in an increasing number of electronic communications sub-markets, there is still a need for a policy to promote the development of networks and electronic communications services here to countries. Widebands and the development of faster and faster networks until end users are on the high political agenda in Norway. For the Central Party, it is important that this development takes place throughout the country. There is still a need to pursue an active policy to develop faster broadband, while encouraging citizens to use broadband services. Another determining factor is security and preparedness. In Norway, we have very good quality on our web, and there is a high uptime in the telecommunications and data networks. Still, we've seen that the security of the night hasn't always been good enough. Natural disasters, exceptional events and accidents have shown that we are dependent on well-functioning telecommunications. It is therefore an important factor in the law that now takes height to link the security of the ecosystem and services up to a defence standard. The privacy of the individual is strong in Norway. There is no good luck in developing the telecommunications and data companies operating in Norway, sending information through other countries, and that these countries have the opportunity to monitor, intercept and check the content of Norwegian citizens’ e-mails. This is the Center Party very critical of it. The Committee refers to the ministry's statement that Norwegian citizens have to be informed about Norwegian internal communications via some telecommunications and data carriers being routed beyond Norwegian borders, and that the user should know what the consequences might be, so that one can choose another telecommunications provider.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2053	The left is not represented in the committee, so we see that it is a little extra important to make some comments on the comments submitted by the committee. The Ekom law is quite a fresh law. It describes an area that is in decline. It is such a great development that many of today's issues barely existed ten years ago, when the eco-ms were created. In addition, there are questions that intervene very heavily in the everyday life of many of us, and many are concerned about and engaged in. The exposure around the Data Storage Directive showed that people have a high level of involvement around their own privacy – and the intervention we have in it. The number of hearing replies also shows a high level of involvement in the case. The point is that there are great demands on us as politicians, and it places great demands on a dynamic market to be regulated. We all remember the last time we had a major review of the copyright law. There were few on Stortinget who had heard that music could be delivered in MP3 or who knew what an iPod was. Now I think that's pretty general knowledge. The proposition outlines a number of policy challenges on the ecosystem market, some of which are well discussed in the proposition. There are two things I want to raise. The first is net neutrality. The whole point and thinking behind online neutrality is to ensure the most open and non-discriminatory Internet – a fully free communication platform. The left's commitment to online neutrality is also linked to our belief in freedom of expression as a starting point for communication. I think it is positive that we have received guidelines for the Post and Telecommunications Authority on online neutrality. They seem to work reasonably well, but we believe that we should also strongly assess the legalisation of these principles. The Left has made provision for this, and I hope that the Council of State will comment on it in its post afterwards. The second point is the protection of privacy and communication — or what is correctly referred to in the proposal as ‘monitoring by the authorities of foreign countries’. The Swedish FRA Act has been debated in this Chamber. The left has picked it up several times – and it probably won't be the last time. The position of the left to the FRA Act should be known to most. It is a serious problem that our neighbouring country takes on the freedom to monitor Norwegian citizens as they will. Sweden breaks with confidence between countries when sharing a single market. This shows that – visible – you don’t care that data traffic is also part of our personal communication. Proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party, in the setting, about taking up the FRA Act with Sweden, is good. It should have been done from day one. I am a little surprised that several parties do not support the proposal. However, the proposed amendments to Sections 2 to 9 of the Act are a step in the right direction. Due to the FRA Act, Norwegian network traffic should actually be routed outside Sweden, such as proposal No. 5 imply. It is impracticable as of today – the capacity is probably not large enough to do so. But as serious as the problem is, Norwegian citizens can be monitored without Norwegian authorities knowing it, without the legal system involved, and that information can also be passed on to other kingdoms, the Left would like to see a rollout of cables on a large scale, for example. to Denmark. It is a dramatic measure, but the situation today is untenable if we believe that the protection of Norwegian citizens is important and that it should be strong. Some words in the proposition confirm it several places. The left expects the government to follow these words in the utmost consequence with action, the sail of the red-green history in the privacy field does not offer particular confidence. Finally, I would just like to say that we will vote in favour of the No. 1 to 5, in particular the proposals Nos 1 to 5, 4 and 5 are important for the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2081	Then the president took note of the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2084	The ECom law is an important law to safeguard the security and preparedness perspective of a social development where more and more of both communication and information in society are digital. At the same time, we all know that the digital integrity of any society is under increasing pressure. Heavy actors are looking to commit crime in the digital space. There's also a glitch in the digital space, i.e. hacking. It's also national interests to get behind the security structures to get what I want to call community-critical information. These are actors who have a lot of resources, expertise and strong self-interest in just using resources to extract information from countries they may be in conflict with or from which they are interested in decision-making information. Therefore, it is of national interest and of great national importance that we do what we can to ensure the integrity of our national networks — including critical digital infrastructure. There's the ecoms have an important role to play, just to build the necessary barriers. In that perspective, the Storting discussed this last autumn. At the time, it was problematic about Telenor and NetCom purchasing Chinese components for the core of their mobile networks in 2010. In this respect, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs wrote to the Minister of Justice and asked her to explain the safety assessments made by her ministry in connection with these acquisitions. The letter sent back to the Control and Constitutional Committee explains quite well that the government has not actually assessed this, because the law does not give rise to this. I quote from the letter from the Minister of Justice dated 13 November 2012: ‘In 2010, the NSM assessed whether the Safety Act and the Electronic Communications Act had mechanisms to reduce risks as described. [[...]] The NSM then concluded that there was a risk but that none of the legislation was applicable.’ That was in 2010. This letter was written in 2012. Now we're in 2013, and we have the echom law in front of us to assess. We have an opportunity to address just some of the NSM problems. There is a proposal from the opposition, from the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right, on greater equality between military and civil network requirements for goods and services. Unfortunately, that proposal is likely to be voted down at this meeting today. My questions to the Minister for Transport are: To what extent has the Ministry of Transport been aware of the NSM's assessment at this point, and why do you not want to address it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2096	Electronic communication means more to society than ever before. I would like to thank you for the work done in the Committee on this legislative proposal. It is important that there is agreement on the overall objectives of regulation and also that there is unanimity on most of the amendments proposed in the proposal. Regulatory developments in this area are likely to take place on an ongoing basis in the years to come, as developments are progressing so rapidly that we need to update legislation at regular intervals in order to ensure privacy considerations, but also other legislation that is important to facilitate the commercial side of development. As the Committee points out, we have very good quality and high uptime in the ecosystems in Norway. In order to contribute to the improvement of infrastructure, it is important, as the Committee also agrees, to introduce a new standard of soundness for eco-networks and services. It will also facilitate business and value creation and the need for people to communicate continuously through, among other things. social media. Let me comment on a few things that the committee, and also several of the speakers in the Chamber today, have been concerned about. The minority has proposed that the requirements for goods and services supplied to critical digital infrastructure be coordinated with the Defence’s requirements for communication networks and interconnector systems. It is a proposal that, in the government's view, it would not be commercially sound to impose on civil operators, for example: the robustness and personnel control requirements of the Defence. It can be very costly and, in my opinion, hardly costable for an industry that is also involved in the commercial sector. Many have been involved in the FRA Act, and it is important. The personal interest of the sector is important. I have noticed that the Committee is critical of the fact that providers in Norway are sending information through other countries, thereby opening up the surveillance of foreign authorities. The present proposal allows for a regulation to ensure that the user is provided with information about Norwegian internal communications routed out of the country. It's a prescription home that will be followed up by the ministry. I understand the minority's wish to be exempted from Swedish FRA legislation for Norwegian internal communications. The FRA Act has been discussed with the Swedish authorities. They want to stop threats to Swedish security regardless of the nationality of the suspect, and they also indicate that there are no technical solutions to sort out internal Norwegian traffic. I think we need to recognise that the possibility of obtaining an impact on such a claim through Swedish legislative changes or via Swedish authorities is very small. Let me also mention the consideration behind the proposal for a change in the provision of cookies, so-called cookies: it is to give users better control over their personal data. The purpose of the change is also to strengthen privacy there. The proposal will lead to an increased requirement for information in order to allow users to exercise their rights. It is proposed to impose strict requirements on the information to be received by the end-user, but no requirement is proposed for the user to consent to each use of that type of cookie. In my opinion, the proposal has become a well-balanced proposal that takes into account both business interests and privacy. The question of the so-called digging regulation – about cables in and along the road – is also raised by many. I assume that there is a consensus that one must try to find good solutions for the installation of cables in and along the road. In the work on new regulations under the Road Act, the Swedish Road Administration has abandoned a proposal they have previously had on annual rentals. Looking now at proposals that the Ministry of Transport is responsible for facilitating further progress, one will assume that SINTEF has just carried out on behalf of the Ministry, where an attempt is made to balance the input from both the ICT industry and the road authorities on that type of regulation. One aims at the adoption of the regulation as soon as possible. It should also have an influence on the regulation of the rest of the road network, i.e. the highways. Finally, let me address a small question that the rapporteur mentioned. I can confirm that in the case of an extended 24 month binding period, there is an exceptional helmet that will be interpreted very strictly and that will only be used exceptionally and for the best of the customer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2119	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2122	I was wondering if the Council of State could explain a little bit about how much dialogue there has been with the Swedish authorities about the FRA Act. The previous Minister of Transport promised in a debate just before she left, that she would take the initiative with Swedish authorities. We'd rather not be able to do anything. Swedish citizens have a completely different right than that. Norwegian citizens have – when intelligence and police can go in and monitor and retrieve information about Norwegian citizens. At least we should have the same rights as Swedish citizens. This is something that the Swedish Government should be able to work with to the Swedish authorities, to get it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2131	I have not had specific meetings with my colleague about the subject – I will admit that – but there has been an ongoing dialogue between the Norwegian and Swedish authorities. It is probably our position – based on this dialogue – that the Swedish have nothing against continuing a dialogue, but that it is very unlikely that it is possible to move the Swedish views on this matter. In the case of transit traffic, the Swedish authorities simply do not agree with the Norwegian position, namely that one should not be able to monitor traffic going from Norway via Sweden to another country. They are of the opinion that we must be able to accept this, and that this is subject to judicial review. Internal communication is of the opinion that it is very difficult to exempt. But here we have added a regulatory home that gives the user the opportunity to know if the telecommunications operator has that kind of routing of internal traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2140	Two things: How long has the ministry been investigating burial regulations? And when, on the basis of the objective, will it come into force? This is a regulation that has been in demand of ICT industries for a long time and which is important for the development of broadband. The other applies to cookies, cookies. On questions sent by the Progress Party through the Committee, the State Council and the Ministry have moved a little with regard to the fact that each website accepts common reference to a common website as regards the use of cookies themselves. But at the same time, you put your foot down in terms of detail – you need detailed information about specific capsules. Then a little bit of the gain goes into the spin. I'm asking the Council of State to review this again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2147	I can't say exactly how long the question of the burial order has been under consideration, but the investigation of this question, which Sintef has done on behalf of the ministry, has been sent to the hearing. The hearing was finished a month ago. From the consultation and from the results of the report, the Ministry intends to promote the regulation during the period of ageing we now have. When it comes to the question of cookies, I acknowledge that this is not a completely simple balance. One must be able to balance the interests of those who want to use that type of cookies and privacy. We in the Department seem to have a reasonable balance that no consent is required every time the type of cookies is used, but that one must inform the user of the purpose of these types of cookies, what information is being processed and what purpose it should be. If not, one will not be able to respect privacy concerns related to this either.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2154	I try what I tried to do in the post – that is not unexpected. Today, we have a regulation for the Post and Telecommunications Authority on online neutrality, which we believe is good. But we would have liked this to have been legal, and not just a prescription. What's the Council's comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2161	I just want to say that when the representative of the Left believes that the regulation is good and that the role of the Postal and Telecommunications Authority in this respect is important, we agree on that – and that the issue of network neutrality is important. I don't want to reject legal regulation later, but it's a little dependent on how the regulation works. If one has regulated by regulation, works well and one does not see any unexpected or negative aspects of it, one can well regulate by regulation. But if this gets some unfortunate results, we should be able to see if one should give it an even stronger legal protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2168	Then I'll ask you another thing. An opportunity for Norwegian suppliers to use privacy as a competitive advantage – by informing whether it is possible to route things via Sweden or through other routes – is a good idea. My question is: does the Council of State think that this will be used as a competitive advantage, or will this become so difficult to use as an advantage that the operators will not do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2175	It is, in fact, a little difficult to answer if the operators would consider this a possible competitive advantage, if they would use it that way. In the case of the type of internal communications routed through a third country — in this case often Sweden — it is important for us that users are informed and that they can make qualified choices based on the information they receive. If the providers are going to look at it as a competitive disadvantage or advantage, I think the time will show.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2182	My question is a little bit a continuation of Trine Skei Grande's questions about routing and about things going through Sweden. When I have been in dialogue with a part of the ICT industry, including: with ICT-Norway, they say that it is very difficult to assure themselves that things do not go via Sweden even when it comes to internal communications in Norway, even for companies like Telenor and others. So I want to challenge the Council of State on the following: How can all customers be convinced that it will not go through Sweden – when the industry itself says that it can be quite difficult to do this? Now you say you should know in advance, but it may be a problem – because the information runs around in the air and flies quickly across the border and back again. I would very much like to know how the Council of State intends to follow this up, so that no one risks going through Sweden if you have clearly stated that you do not want to, and use a telecommunications provider who has said that you should not.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2189	I recognise that this is not an entirely unproblematic issue, but I think it is important that we now propose that the type of information should be provided by the echo operators to the users. This is, to a large extent, a question of trust, that the providers do not offer anything that is not in line with what we have put up in the proposition. In my opinion, it would be a misuse of trust if they said one thing – and chose to do something else. It is largely up to the industry to fulfil the information obligation that they are required to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2197	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2214	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2223	The proposed amendment to the Road Traffic Act will open in order to allow the Ministry of Transport to determine that vehicles with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3500 kg shall be equipped with electronic tags for running on the public road network. Furthermore, it is open for the Ministry to determine the area of activity to be covered and the groups of vehicles to be covered by the supply. The National Audit Office’s effectiveness analysis considers that the most important factor for toll companies’ operating costs is the proportion of vehicles using electronic chips. Toll companies do not only have high costs associated with the billing of tolls to owners who have not subscribed. Losses on receivables are also largely linked to running gear without an electronic chip. The 2011 accounting figure shows that the loss on receivables for 43 companies was 20.7 pst. That's 172 million. kr. There can be no doubt that the scheme will be an important measure to promote competition on a level playing field between Norwegian and foreign transport industries. The legislative proposal has been being heard by more than 200 bodies, and the hearing bodies that have given the floor have essentially taken a positive view of the proposal. The legislative proposal would allow the Ministry, by way of instructions, to provide for electronic tags for vehicles over 3500 kg and then, in the first instance, restricted to vehicles used for the transport of foodstuffs. The self alignment and scope must be clarified more closely in connection with the public hearing of the occupants. Many of the hearing authorities have been concerned that the control is organised as part of the control that is otherwise on the public road network. The most important thing here must be that the control has a scale and that the sanctions have a size that makes it impossible to run without the required chips. The introduction must aim at ensuring that the scheme applies equally to all road users who are subject to the obligation, irrespective of nationality, so that the scheme does not, in practice, appear discriminatory. This is not a toll case, but it's still a toll case. Even if the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have their own additional comments, for which I assume that they themselves are going to do more, it is unusual – but nevertheless happy for me as the case-speaker – to present a coherent attitude from the Committee on Transport and Communications in a matter of tolls. This is a matter that is good enough and important in itself to achieve a more cost-effective tolling system, but also in particular in view of the conditions under which transport industries compete. In conclusion, however, I would also like to point out that we have to go further – as the NTP proposal itself does – by introducing the mandatory AutoPASS chip into all vehicles and as a means of payment on our national road journeys.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2244	After hearing the previous speeches, I think it was good that I took the floor, because this is not a toll case, and this does not mean that the Progress Party is for tolls. What this case is actually about is requiring mandatory bombing in all vehicles over 3.5 tonnes. What is actually in the proposition – which is very common across the whole industry – and the feedback we get is that in many cases the collection of traffic payments from non-resident vehicles is very demanding. In practice, many people do not pay. There is a distortion of competition between Norwegian and foreign trade. The Progress Party is against the financing of public roads with tolls and against tolls where the purpose is not only to build public roads paid by the drivers but also to obtain revenues for purposes other than roads. However, when all lots other than the Advance Party adopt the use of toll financing, the Progress Party agrees that it must ensure that all pay. It must be non-discriminatory when passing the tolling stations, therefore the Progress Party is voting for the amendments to the Road Traffic Act. The Contracting Party is concerned that this is a Powers Act to be practised by regulation. I refer to answers from the Ministry of Transport to the questions asked by the Progress Party in the matter, also on the use of a regulation. The Contracting Party shall base its vote in favour of the proposal in this case on the fact that there is no regulatory opening of the application for a bill of payment in all vehicles without a legislative decision in the Stortinget. It's important. The Progress Party has noted that new NTPs in 2014-2023 are opening up to this effect. On page 97, it says: ‘The Ministry of Transport will begin to assess the economic and administrative consequences of a tile directive for all vehicles when the heavy-duty vehicle scheme is dealt with by the Stortinget. Further consideration is given to the extension of the tile requirement when the necessary clarifications on anonymity are available.» This reveals that this government is looking for more transport tax and sees toll financing as a permanent and further expanded source of funding for all types of transport measures. Should the voters be in doubt: this is another reason to change the government for the harvest. The Progress Party has asked questions about the arrangements in place in European countries that are naturally comparable. The department's letter of reply is attached to the setting. Both Switzerland and the EU countries of Austria have arrangements whereby non-resident wagon trains pay for the number of kilometres travelled. We want to investigate a similar scheme in Norway, where it is paid for foreign trailers, the use of the road network in general, and not just to ensure payment when passing Norwegian toll stations. Such a scheme would be even better to ensure a level playing field in Norway between Norwegian and non-resident carriers, and it would also remove much of the problem that is now being faced with cabotage and foreign carriers competing in Norwegian transport. It would be a much, much better system and a much, much better measure than what we are now discussing, but we believe, as I said, that the principle of non-discrimination is important. It is important for the Norwegian transport industry and for the Norwegian industry that there is as much as possible a level playing field. It is not with the measures the government has put up with about this with cabotage and the problems within it, but at least this is something the industry has asked for and is a small step in the right direction. If you really were to take this seriously, you would have done as other countries, that is, to make sure that when you use our road network, those who come from abroad also have to take their share, and then, as I said, you could get rid of much of the problem we now experience about cabotage — or illegal cabotage. In fact, nothing is called legal or illegal cabotage because cabotage is a derogation from the Directive. That is why we in the Progress Party believe that these are things you have to look at and that I expect the government to come back to. Governments have received many demands from, among others: The truck company, as she has said she will come back to later. I think there are completely different measures that will be much better. So this doesn't mean that the Progress Party has become anything more for tolls or toll stations. We're going to fight hard against it both on the inside and on the outside as long as we're in Stortinget, because we think it's nothing but an extra tax, an extra tax government seems to be able to move in from the purchasing power of ordinary people and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2264	I understand that the progress part wears here, so they are to install a piece that has only one purpose, easy to skin trucks and business on the road. So one is against doing this, but one is for mounting the device. Yes, yes, one should listen a lot to the Size of the Progress Party. One also guarantees that when the industry has installed this piece and the Progress Party will be in government, then an end will cease to demand money from that piece. I understood that the Progress Party now guaranteed that the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left will stop demanding tolls about the Progress Party coming into government with those parties. The other parties have all voted in favour of the toll projects. Now is the step-by-step game to have the piece to collect the tolls. What's next? We're slipping and looking forward to our continuation. Now this applies only to transport of more than 3500 kg by industry. It should also apply to passenger transport, as is now the case in the national transport plan, because then we could easily ensure that the Progress Party did not let the money go to the administration of the toll companies, but to the construction of roads. As is the case today, the toll run of the representative Hoksrud is invoiced, thereby driving up administrative costs, so that it actually becomes less suitable for road construction with the behaviour of the traffic spokesperson in the Progress Party. It is alarming that one of Hoksrud's side wants to spend money on increasing red tape and paper solutions. The case spokesperson has presented the case in a good way. The case spokesperson, me and more, but especially the case spokesperson, has really been standing there for a long time to get this case out, not least against the ferry links we have in the West. So now we're on. That's what I think. We shall thank the case-speaker for the commitment he has had in this matter, but of course also the red-green government, which has finally managed to get through in this matter we have been waiting for a long time. Finally, we are pleased that Hoksrud's piece is in place, so that the money can go to road construction and not to administrative expenses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2277	First a little comment to the representative Bård Hoksrud's post, where he refers to the many reasons there is to get a new government to the fall. I would like to remind you that although his party is called the Progress Party, progress always implies change, but change does not always mean progress! Norwegian transport is an important industry for many places in the country. From the north to the south, trucks carry goods over shorter and longer distances, from the producer to the buyer both within the country and abroad. In the last few years, competition has stalled, and it's more than good. Competition is preferable on a level playing field, but competition does not take place on a level playing field when heavy foreign vehicles come with cheap and bad tyres and do not pay the tolls that Norwegian vehicles have to pay. Experience has shown that the collection of tolls from foreign vehicles has been particularly demanding for the toll companies, including toll companies. prevents national rules of foreign authorities from accessing the relevant register. In addition, it is often inconvenient to apply for a post-traffic payment. This means that some heavy goods transporters abroad had to pay tolls and could operate at lower operating costs than Norwegian carriers. The manner in which toll collection is carried out can thus lead to an unfortunate distortion of competition between Norwegian and foreign industry. There will be a system of mandatory use of electronic toll rings for Norwegian road charging systems for vehicles over 3 500 kg, and that is excellent. The transport industry has requested this in order to ensure that all owners of heavy goods vehicles pay tolls, thus preventing distortions of competition from those who do not have tolls. This new approach will help to ensure that competition between Norwegian and foreign transport industries takes place on more equal terms, and it is good for our transport industries and jobs to relate to this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2294	The drivers are involved in financing a large part of road development in Norway. It is very important that the drivers can have confidence in the tolling system. The collection must be reliable and efficient. As much money as possible has to go to work and as much as possible to the administration. The Riksrevision Report, Document 3:5 for 2012–2013, concluded that the toll collection target has not been met in recent years. The National Audit Office also points out that the Ministry of Transport has played a very important role. There has been little steering signal in this area, and the National Audit Office also points out that there have been weaknesses in the follow-up of the Toll Companies by the State Road Service. The government has taken the criticism seriously – that’s good. And it is good that the department will take a clearer responsibility for governance and follow-up. But central to the Riksrevision report was also this with costs related to the non-use of bombs. Lack of use of chips in automated installations incurs significant costs. It is therefore necessary to take measures to ensure that more road users use a piece. There are major losses as a result of road users not paying their passages. In 2011, this amounted to a total of 172 million. kr for the companies. The Christian People's Party believes that the legislative proposal under consideration here today, on mandatory toll bar for all vehicles over 3,500 kg, is a good measure, and we support the proposal. It's a step in the right direction, but at the same time, the Christian People's Party has several times in the past decided that it should be mandatory with tiles also on lighter vehicles. The introduction of a mandatory piece for all vehicles could both facilitate the collection of tolls by road users and reduce the cost of toll companies. However, in addition to this, it will also be possible to make it possible for toll collection in cities to be differentiated from individual vehicle pollution. Such an extension of the obligation to apply to all vehicles requires, of course, that a good data protection system has been put in place and that there are good alternatives with track-free solutions. The important thing now is to improve the system. It will ensure that more of the tolls actually go to a new path. We want to minimise the problem of foreign drivers who do not make up for themselves. The Christian People's Party therefore supports this proposal. It's a step in the right direction – we're waiting for step no. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2315	It is gratifying that the Storting now unanimously joins in the adoption of a decision supporting this bill, which will allow for a system of mandatory use of electronic chips for vehicles above 3500 kg. This is a bill that means simplification. It is a legislative proposal that means more efficiency, and it is a legislative proposal that ensures that you avoid toll collection leading to distortions of competition between national transport and foreign transport, especially in professional traffic. Substantial work is being done on the question of improving the efficiency of toll companies’ efforts to reduce the administrative costs of toll collection and to ensure that all those using the road pay the road when it is toll collection. For several years, the Directorate of Roads has been working on instruments to stimulate the voluntary use of tolls. However, during the investigation and consultation of the legislative proposal, it became clear that this measure imposing the use of heavy-duty tolls is an important step that needs to be taken in order to raise the percentage of tolls. It is expected that, in particular, the toll collection for foreign vehicles will be facilitated and that the toll companies will increasingly ensure the payment of these vehicles. There is no secret that it has often been a demanding, costly and difficult job to obtain payment from part of these vehicles. The investigation of the legislative proposal has also estimated that the annual toll revenue of toll companies will increase significantly as a result of the scheme and that the funds can be more used to fund the road. The effectiveness of the tolling system is a priority objective of the national transport plan, which was presented earlier this month, and is, as I said, a measure to ensure that more of the money actually goes to the tolling financing of the projects. It also makes the system more fair. This, I think, is also important to ensure the legitimacy of the tolling system in society over the years to come. This proposal is one of several key elements which are part of the government's further work on simplification and efficiency on the toll side. The second question that we are also working on is the question of getting fewer toll companies in Norway, and also the question of mandatory toll barriers for everyone. It is true that the National Audit Office’s report on toll management, presented last December, strongly supports the use of these types of measures. There it was, among other things. concluded that the use of toll bar is the factor which could have the greatest impact on the efficiency of the toll bar toll bar. The Ministry attaches great importance to following up the advice given in this report. I also see it as very important that the industry has to a large extent been a driver in order to put in place a system that we are dealing with today. Let me say a little bit about the further regulatory work and the entry into force of the scheme. Regulations shall be laid down concerning the system, which will also specify which vehicles are to be imposed on the use of toll blocks, the scope of the proposal and other provisions relating to the system, such as: fee for infringements, etc. As mentioned in the proposal, it is proposed that the mandatory requirement should cover as many vehicles as possible over 3500 kg which are used in commercial activities, as has been stated in the consultation of the legislative proposal by the vast majority of the hearing bodies. The treatment of the draft regulation is in its final phase and it is expected that the regulation may be sent to the public hearing within a relatively short period of time. The regulation is of the type subject to an EEA consultation and therefore it must be submitted to ESA by the deadline of three months for its opinion. However, the Ministry plans to implement the EEA consultation in parallel with the public consultation in Norway in order to save some time. The Directorate-General for Road Transport is otherwise working on technical solutions for the control system and piece distribution and other administrative work that must be done before the scheme can enter into force, with the aim of ensuring that this is done as soon as possible after the regulations have been laid down. With this proposal, the government prioritises implementing measures to increase the efficiency of toll collection and toll revenue from heavy-duty vehicles. The unanimous recommendation of the Legislative Committee also shows that the Storting regards this as a very important work. I very much appreciate the prompt treatment made by the legislative proposal in the committee. It also allows the Ministry to continue its work on the implementation of the scheme with a view to its implementation as rapidly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2336	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2339	I sat and laughed and laughed well when I listened to the representative Langeland and his posts on the Progress Party. It is clear that he has not got a lot of what I said in this debate, and what I have said in other toll debates. In the previous case, SV was very concerned with privacy, and in this case, they are not so concerned about privacy anymore, even if it is said that now, when it is to be introduced into all cars, you should consider the possibility of getting an anonymisation. But it's interesting how to get an anonymization, when we hear that the Christian People's Party says they want to have differentiated toll charges based, for example. the environmental cost of the car. How are you going to be able to have it anonymized, if you're going to think about it? We know that there's one thing that's safe, so every time you add a new criterion, the administration costs are right in the weather. That's when it gets dirty. It's just to look at Grenland, where the political majority wants to introduce a toll around the municipalities of Skien, Porsgrund and Bamble. The collection costs are going to be up to 100 million. kr because you put in a lot of criteria and plan a number of toll stations to pop up like toad hats around the municipalities. I think it is nice that the representative Langeland also cares about Hoksrud's costs when he pays by passing and does not have a bomb in his car. I do this because I think privacy is an important matter, and we record that other public authorities are picking up this information and using it for completely different things than they were supposed to when they were collected. So I also think it's interesting that everyone is so very busy putting this in place for all the drivers. I think the real thing here is that the government in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023 says that you want to reduce the discount scheme by having a bomb block in the car to 10 pst. Then it is not very interesting to have a bomb bar in the car anymore. So I think this is just to skin the drivers even more – make sure that the state can continue to extra-tax ordinary drivers who are driving around on our road network and are dependent on the car. That's the majority's motivation for now wanting to introduce mandatory pieces in all cars, because there's no longer any intuition when the discount goes down from maybe 50 and 40 pst, as it is in many toll companies, to 10 pst. when you have a bomb bar in the car. I think maybe those are the most important arguments here, not that you're necessarily so concerned with the others. It is a pleasure to see that you are concerned with reducing administrative costs, but the interest costs are high for Norwegian toll companies, so you should remove both parts and let the state take responsibility and finance according to. the road law for which they are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2350	I have nothing against Hoksrud's whining and moaning. I appreciate the fact that you have some fun in the storeroom, and right now I thought I did. For now I hear that the representative Hoksrud does not comment on what I stressed in my post, namely that he, with his behaviour in the bombing system in Norway, is driving up the administrative costs and thus driving down the investments in the way. So the lead figure of the party is a person who increases the administrative costs of the Norwegian bombers, which thus gives less road construction in Norway. The representative, Hoksrud, did not comment. So I thought it was interesting that the Progress Party would participate in one – for them – huge misinvestment. This piece, in which the Progress Party thinks one should invest for all cars over 3,500 kg – and in all other cars at some point – it should never be used. It is only to be mounted, but never to be used. Investing in a piece that is not to be used for anything will have to be a waste of resources for private and commercial drivers. ‘We are renewing Norway!’ Many of the things that have led to road accidents have gone down, including: record of speed between photoboxes, is the step-by-step because one can then register. That's one way to think about it, but another way to think about it is that it actually leads to reduced speed and less traffic accidents. That aspect is missing from my argument at the Progress Party when it comes to road safety. So this is also, as truck owners and others have been involved, a big point when it comes to obtaining the money from foreign commercial transport, which was also emphasised by the case-speaker. We don't disagree. But it is strange that those who are claimed to be the car's leading spokesperson in Stortinget, will now ask Norwegian drivers to invest in a piece that can be used to collect tolls, but that for the Progress Party will only stand in the window as a symbol of an error investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2362	It's certainly a little early to thank you for a good debate. There may be more here, but so far: Thank you! I thought it was very interesting the perspective that the representative Hemdal drew up, if – not only for certain – this was extended to be a mandatory piece in all vehicles, and the possibilities that then lie there, among other things. to differentiate when emissions are involved. You can do the same thing when it's time on the clock, so there'll be possibilities here. It's not necessarily to make it more expensive for people, but to make it more reasonable for those who consume at least. I've been a little hurt to say something negative about Hoksrud, because that's one thing that we agree with, and we're going to do the same. However, I have noticed that he says that the administrative costs are shooting in the weather. That's not what they do. We're going to get the costs down, and we're going to use, as the Council of State has made a very good point, more of the resources received to build roads and to pay down the loans that are. When the representative Hoksrud says that the government was looking for a transport tax when, in the NTP proposal, they announced a piece of work in all the cars, I just have to make sure that in the Transport and Communications Committee, all the parties in the last round of the budget wanted a mandatory piece in all the running gear, except the Progress Party. Only the loss of claims, what we have said here, is at 172 million. kr. So I also have to say that privacy is important, but when you're going to be so principled on privacy, I don't really get it to vote when the Progress Party here is involved in establishing a truck driver scheme, and then you won't have it for those who run smaller cars. Should there be a difference between the privacy you want, depending on how heavy a car is running? It doesn't rhyme completely. But in general, I'm very happy with the representative Bård Hoksrud today, because we're going to smoke the same way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2377	Yes, in this case of tolls, we shall all vote equally. We're able to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. One is that with this scheme, we ensure that non-resident vehicles arriving in Norway and operating transport have to pay in the same way as all Norwegian registered persons do when operating in Norway. It is a principle of non-discrimination. That is the concern of the Progress Party, which is why we are voting in favour of this system. The second thought, which we still have clearly in our head, is also in a note in the setting. It is that we are opposed to extra transport taxes, as it is carried out by this government through an increasing number of tolls and toll projects across the whole country. Over the eight years of red-green government soon to end, extra transport taxes are approaching 130 billion. kr. Then it becomes a little strange to hear the representative from Langeland, who is concerned about whether the representative Hoksrud has a piece or not. This government has imposed on Norwegian road users a transport tax that is really unfair and which really amounts to a large amount. Of the nearly 130 billion. kr is worth noting that most of the supplementary bill, which does not go to the road construction of the 130 billion. kr – it's over 30 billion. NOK – interest is payable, and between 3 and 4 to 5 billion. NOK goes to the collection costs. It's expensive enough, in and out, but it's the financing costs that this government fairly roughly serves to the drivers as well as the contribution to the investment costs that make a big bill. We are concerned with non-discrimination when Norwegian carriers come to Norway. We are committed to the fight against the disadvantages of cabotage, which must be carried out. There is a cleaning work to do, and part of the cleaning work is in this case, namely equal treatment. We assume that the representative Langeland is just as eager as the Progress Party after getting rid of the disadvantages of cabotage, because there are some disadvantages. Then we are concerned – also mentioned in the comment – to ask the Council of State to look at a system that allows non-resident carriers, when they come to Norway, to pay for their total use, i.e. distance out, as we perceive they are doing in other countries. We should also look at this in Norway in order to achieve further non-discrimination between Norwegian and non-resident carriers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2388	The representative Hallgeir H. Langeland has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2391	Yes, this has been a very interesting debate based on something that is very reasonable, easy to make sure that the tolls you charge, the most likely goes to what you should build and not to administer it. It is quite right, as Mr. Sortevik says, that a lot of tolls are demanded in Norway, and for the Progress Party too much, as I have interpreted them in the years we have debated this with Sortevik and Hoksrud. If we're going to interpret what's happening today politically, where the Progress Party now participates in an investment in a piece that's not to be used, I think it stems from the following reasoning: The Progress Party is betting on coming to government in the fall, they realize that all but they're for tolls. That means they've already lost the case, so they're agreeing to invest in the pieces they're going to collect the money with themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2400	I have a speaking time of 3 minutes, but I don't need that. The representative of Sortevik is just going to say that the adventure that we now heard from the representative of Langeland is and becomes an adventure and has no reality in itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2405	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2419	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Rudihagen – for the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2430	I'm not the spokesman for the case, but I'm going to act as the dictator because the dictator is not here right now. Industry and power are two debates that hang close together. It is not possible to separate the energy debate from the debate on the development of Norwegian industry. It is also a joint committee which acknowledges that industry's power needs are a problem. It's important to be clear. Good and stable access to power is crucial for industry. That is why I am pleased that, through the production of increasingly renewable energy and security of supply, we have made it possible to do so. By way of exception: We have set up the CO2 compensation scheme for the Norwegian power-consuming industry. With the measures taken and implemented by the government, we have arranged for a commitment to industry in Norway. This document, Document 8:31 S, about the industry's power availability addresses important questions that we work on continuously. Here I will also refer to the Council of State's letter, where he writes that the government is working on a matter of industry's power regardless of this proposal. Ownership for power is an important debate in Norway. The majority has regularly debated the ownership of Norwegian power plants since the introduction of the right to return. In the past, we also had a partly heated discussion about ownership of Norwegian power plants based on the proposal of the Right Programme Committee. There is therefore another reason why this proposal is interesting. Here, both the Right Party and the Progress Party have been in favour of the government's view on the question of who will own the power. It's a whole revolution of dimensions. It is said to see if the national meeting in the Right accepts this change in policy. After ESA passed its judgment on the Norwegian right of return, we have operated on the so-called consolidation model, which means that only the public can own large parts of the water power plants. The possibility for private individuals to own up to one-third has led the shareholder agreement to ensure effective public control of the company. I think this is a good model, which ensures what has been an important pillar of Norwegian energy policy, that natural resources belong to the people, and that the management of these are under public control. For the Workers' Party, this is a central element of energy policy. Within this regime, we must work to protect the interests of industry. We have facilitated long-term power agreements through the guarantee scheme, and we see that several companies have concluded agreements with State power. We have set the stage for a large-scale deployment of renewable energy through the Electricity Certificate Schemes. Most of the analyses show that we will have a surplus of power in time. It benefits the industry. With the support of Enova, we are facilitating a shift in industry that strengthens competitiveness and reduces industry's energy consumption. Among other things, Elkem Salten has received over 300 million. kr i support for energy efficiency measures. Finnjord is another example. The Labour Party has supported us and will still be an industrial party. Further development of industry and industrial framework conditions is important. The opposition here points to a theme that is particularly important in Norway, and I would like to refer again to the Council of State's letter stating that this is a particular issue that the government is dealing with. I include the proposal from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2456	The representative of Torstein Rudihagen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2459	The progress party points to the importance of remembering that Norwegian industry has long traditions as a power producer. It is also important to remember that the history of Norwegian hydropower runs parallel to the history of Norwegian industrial development. It was the hydropower that was the state. The available hydropower was the driving force of industrial blooming in Norway. In the beginning, the companies had to be built close to the footfalls, but after some time, the development was so good that the flow could be channeled into wires from the production site to where the factories were built. With the help of non-resident capital, large enterprises built their own power plants in Norway. As you know, this was abolished by the government in 2008. Since that time it's almost 100 pst. of the power plants owned by the public. This has resulted in the closure of enterprises, while others have moved abroad. This emigration goes under the term ‘carbon leakage’. The Progress Party will ensure national control of energy resources. This is done to ensure that jobs, head offices and R & D departments remain in Norway. Norwegian industry has been expanding and managing a number of hydropower plants in a very good way for over 100 years. It has helped to develop and secure jobs, housing and value creation around the country. In order to ensure foreseeable power supply to industry, the Progress Party will increase the lease of power plants from 15 to 30 years. It will increase the possibility for businesses to plan, build and operate their facilities for a satisfactory period of time. Industrial partners of power plants must be able to draw electricity from production corresponding to their ownership. This requires a change in the law. The Progress Party believes that official control of hydropower resources is important, in particular to ensure that the revenues from our natural resources benefit the community. The Progress Party therefore supports the so-called consolidation model, with national ownership of the exploitation of hydropower resources, and uses it in the foreseeable future. With the situation we are experiencing today, with a two-fold share of the Norwegian economy between the part of the petroleum industry and other competitive industries, it is particularly important to ensure good and predictable framework conditions for the traditional export industry, including the powerful industry. In 2008, when the Stortingen removed the industry’s ability to meet its own power needs, Norwegian industry’s competitive advantage and predictability were also reduced. The Party is committed to providing Norwegian industry with good framework conditions for competitiveness also in the international context. Then it is important to go from party speeches to action and show that the power needs of the industry are taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2478	Norway's industrial history and Norway's energy history are closely linked. The expansion of hydropower formed the basis for large industrial establishments in several places in Norway. In the beginning, this happened almost the power source, that is. the foot traps, because the force could not be transported over long distances. Several communities, such as Rjukan and Årdal, to name a few, have developed precisely because of this context, and over the years we have gained a lot of knowledge and competence related to building industry, jobs and values for both community and state based on the hydropower and industry link. The right is concerned with further developing and strengthening the Norwegian industry. There are many good reasons for this – mainly in order to secure jobs. All jobs are important, but it is clear that the relative importance of these industrial workplaces in particular small communities in District Norway is particularly significant. Secondly, Norway has gradually become very dependent on the activity of oil and gas on Norwegian soil, both financially and industrially. This development and this level of activity are good and bring great values back to society, but there is always a danger to be dependent on one factor or one industry. It makes us vulnerable. The power-processing industry represents jobs that are not directly dependent on oil, and it is therefore important to strengthen the growth potential of this type of industry in Norway. Thirdly, power-processing industries have long traditions in Norway, and we have built up high skills related to this industry, which it is important to use and build on in the future. Fourth, Norway and the Nordic countries are moving towards large-scale power surpluses, and the power-generating industry is an important major energy user, and, in order to maintain and strengthen the demand side, it is important to facilitate further development and growth among existing actors and, hopefully, also provide the basis for new industrial start-ups. The power-processing industry is global and its final products are traded in a global market at global prices. Global developments have many uncertainties and factors beyond the control of each industrial enterprise. Then it becomes particularly important to ensure profitability that companies have control of costs. For power-processing industries, the power price is a large part of the cost picture, and it has been and is an advantage for those who themselves have power generation, that they control both power supply and price. This gives predictability. The right has been committed to maintaining this predictability and the security of its own power supply in the Norwegian industry. This is also the background to the fact that, together with the other non-socialist parties in Stortinget, we have chosen to promote this proposal for a representative, in which we ask the government to move forward with an assessment of how today's industrial owners of hydropower, which, after the consolidation model, will not be allowed to extend their concession period, as well as other industries, can meet their needs for foreseeable power availability. We have outlined two alternative solutions. One is to extend the possibility of renting power plants from today's 15 to 30 years; the other is to give industrial owners of power plants the opportunity to take their share of ownership in terms of power and not just be a financial owner that takes dividends in terms of money. The letter from the Minister of Oil and Energy to the Energy and Environment Committee on the occasion of this proposal for a representative expresses a strong consensus that the government should organise good framework conditions for the power-intensive industry in Norway and that the department assesses the possibility of adjustments in today's legislation. These are positive signals that I hope will result in changes that safeguard and strengthen industry's interests and opportunities to further develop and grow in Norway. The right considers that official control of hydropower resources is important and that the revenue from our common resources benefits the community. It is good when this starting point can be reconciled with providing industry with foreseeable power availability and predictability of the main cost component of their production, namely the power price. A Joint Committee underlines the importance of a continuing strong search for industry’s power supply within the framework of public ownership and control of power resources. It's urgent to clarify these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2504	I refer you to the review by Mr Rudihagen on behalf of the rapporteur. For SV, it is important to give industry access to sufficient power, to predictable and good prices. Many such agreements have been concluded for the benefit of both industry and energy producers. At the same time, it is important for us to defend public control and ownership of natural resources – as hydropower is. It's supposed to be the people's property. We're not willing to deal with it. It is important to say when we now experience attacks on the right-hand side of just property over natural resources. In the opinion of the SV, long-term rental conditions of power plants would undermine this policy and illogical the relationship where the industry would be the buyer of electricity and not the producer. The EEA Agreement limits the scope for action for industry, but I would like to mention that long-term contracts have been concluded and that a system of CO2 compensation has been put in place, which means that we still have some room for action. Industry will have obvious benefits from the major expansion of renewable energy. SV wants to facilitate the Norwegian further processing of our large power resources – in the form of industrial products that the world needs, such as: aluminium. There is no environmental benefit in moving such an industry to countries where electricity is not renewable as with us. Just industrial conversion has been the most successful part of Norwegian climate policy, with emissions now in fact reduced by 40pst since 2006. in relation to 1990, while the value creation has increased by a total of 50 pst. One contributor here has been Enova, who through its other activities has also contributed to making a lot of energy available through energy saving measures. It's a little funny that this is one of the proposers, namely the Progress Party, will cut by 1 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2522	In the Centre Party, we are very concerned about ensuring that businesses in general — and the power-processing industry in particular — are well-equipped and able to manage and manage costs. These are important jobs for our business. These are important jobs for very many district communities around the country, and many places make it a corner business in society. In this industry, we have soon built 100 years of experience and knowledge that have generated values in addition to production itself, and built competences throughout the country. There is good reason to be proud of our industry – both through history and in the notes. We know that good access to power is an assurance that this success story will continue. That's why the Center Party, both at large and in government, has been actively working to achieve this goal. One has had a wide bet, one has got a scheme of green certificates that brings a lot of new power into the market over the coming years, which is important for both access and price. Ein has invested heavily through Enova, and in this way has both generated new energy and driven energy efficiency improvement. One has made new demands for construction, and one has also focused on projects in the industry that have helped the industrial companies that have chosen to invest in these projects, but also on the whole for more power into the market, which is also important for the price. Then there is a bet – and will continue to bet – on infrastructure. There is a need for a network to bring this force to consumers, and that is how new networks also allow for new production that guarantees power availability. So a good power grid is very important to both generate new power and to ensure access and price. And at the same time, it's important for the Center Party to turn the community's ownership into the big power plants. There, the red-green government and the Storting made an important step back in 2008, precisely to turn the community's ownership into power. If I understood the representative Skumsvoll correctly, he meant that it had led to what he called the closure and deflagration of large parts of Norwegian industry, and he called it ‘carbon leakage’. I have a little difficulty in understanding the context if it is that access to renewable energy, which we know has just been important to sustain the industry in Norway, is the background for industrial relocation due to carbon leakage. I would have liked to have deepened that position somewhat. The regime we have today does not prevent anything from investing in long-term contracts for the purchase of power. We also see that there is now a greater willingness to invest in Norwegian industry based on just this natural wealth that we have. On the part of the Centre Party, we will continue to be constructive in order to ensure that industry has good access to power within the framework of the Community ownership objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2535	This is a matter with many posts with historical sus all over it. It's great that we can stress the importance of hydropower, the importance of industry and the importance of how resources are managed, and what it has to say for both our society and our businesses. But what I also think is important in the matter, and which is quite historic, is at least the certainty that all the parties on the Stortinget clearly say from the fact that one assumes that there should be official control of the water resources – that is, the so-called consolidation model should form the basis of the foreseeable future. I think it's good to take it with me, and that's why I'm not – as the SV representative suggests – concerned that the important resources to benefit the community should go to private hands. But for the Christian People's Party, it has been important in this matter to work so that we can be sure that the industry has access to the power that they need, that they can have the competitive advantages that they have today, and that they can have predictability over just the reasonable force. The history of the case actually shows that there has been a rather large consensus around the way things are done, because there were demands from ESA that led to changes in 2008. When one opens up that one third could be owned by private individuals, one already sees in the debate here that one really wants to create the best possible system to ensure that the industry can have access to the power. When I read the letter from the Council of State, I am very pleased to note that the Council of State stresses that he is already working on similar things to what we from the opposition have proposed in the proposal for a representative. Then I also see that in the representative proposal from the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party we write and quote Svein Sundsbø, Director of Industrial Policy in Norwegian Industry. One can't say that he is now, but what he says is the greater reason to listen to the council. For Sundsbø, we stress that 15 years is too little predictability for industry, and he wants more long-term power contracts. The opposition's proposal today is precisely about how to ensure that predictability is best achieved, and we are asking for a case. Actually, I wish it was a proposal that the government parties could vote in favour of. At the same time, I am aware of the way in which the government parties have chosen to deal with proposals during these periods, so I should not expect them to vote in favour, but I expect the attitude of the Labour Party in the programme, the attitude shown here in the Chamber, to be reflected in what comes from the Council of State. But while we and the political adviser in the OED point out that long-termity in the power contracts is important, I think one should also take on board that industry gives clear feedback that it is also a challenge to get the right price set on such long-term contracts, and that therefore they signal that they have a desire to make dividends in the form of in kind, in the form of power. I believe that, as we outline it, and as another alternative, an important suggestion to listen to, because the main point is that you should be able to keep official control of the resources while at the same time giving companies the opportunity to take advantage of dividends and ensure predictability, ensuring the competitive advantage they have. Finally, I just want to send a call and a challenge to the Council of State, because I think we agree on the way forward, and that it is important to ensure industry access to power. When one so far suggests that things are happening, I'm excited to hear from the Council of State how that work is working, and whether we can wait for a case and a change proposal to the Stortinget during the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2552	Let me just start with a historical remark. Yesterday, the government council, a staging representative and lawyer Johan Castberg got his own oil field in the north. He is, among other things, the father of concession laws, and they were introduced, as they are known, about 100 years ago in this hall. It was not after cheering and applause from the right side, nor has it been since. There is a long line of conflict in Norwegian politics that is about who is to have ownership of the hydropower, what values it represents, and what values it is to create, and the Christian People's Party is, to put it that way, now choosing an alliance partner who has always been on the wrong side of that line. The government is concerned with good framework conditions for the power-intensive industry in Norway. A good power market and secure power supply are, as we all know, a crucial element in this context. In my letter to the Committee of 15 February this year, I informed that the Ministry was considering the possibilities for changes in the law to meet the needs of industry. These assessments were initiated independently of the currently pending draft representative. I assume that the main principle of managing the country's hydropower resources remains a strong public ownership at state, county and municipal level. I therefore note with great satisfaction that the proposers express support for the current system, based on the consolidation model of public ownership of the hydropower resources. Based on some of the opposition's performances last autumn, this does not seem obvious. In the further work, I take with me this broad political consensus on the consolidation model as a basis for future management of Norwegian hydropower resources. The government has taken many steps to secure the industry's power supply and power supply on good terms. This has been done at the same time as taking into account public ownership of hydropower. To mention some measures: Industrial companies which own hydroelectric power plants with fall-back conditions may freely sell the power plants to public owners before the fall-back takes place. Industry may retain up to 1/3 of its ownership to ensure a basis for continued activity. Under the current rules, such private partnership must be organised within a limited liability company. The government followed up the Swedish Grand Duchy Renting Act and adopted supplementary regulations by the summer of 2010. The framework conditions for the power-intensive industry are something government will at all times be concerned about and focus attention on. I therefore wish to welcome a debate and a change of words about that. At the same time, we have to recognise that the time has passed to establish special private ownership schemes for Norwegian companies, or the designation of power for industrial purposes. Such rules may soon prove to be contrary to our international obligations, with the serious consequences it may have. In the worst case, hasty proposals that really involve the reintroduction of private ownership, with related discrimination, place the principle of public ownership at risk of the country's hydropower resources. We must avoid this at all costs. After Norway lost its case in 2007, the government took the necessary action by adopting a provisional arrangement in August. We had thus secured the public ownership of the hydropower. The size was followed up in 2008 and later in 2009. Following the amendments to the laws, the EFTA Surveillance Authority has notified back that the applicable law on public ownership of hydropower resources is considered to be in conformity with the EEA Agreement. It's a great victory. In other words, what the government achieved after the case was brought before the EFTA Court is good reason to be proud of. Quite briefly about the proposals we are dealing with here: most of the hydropower production is organised in limited liability companies. We're now assessing what's been notified. There are some considerations that need to be taken into account, including: the maintenance of the basic interest rate charge. The hydroelectric renting system is designed to allow both public and private, domestic and foreign companies to enter into leases for up to 15 years. We also consider whether it should be possible to extend the period. If we find that possible, we'll come back to the Storing with an ordinary law on it, in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2588	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2592	From several disciplines and what one might call expert teams, it is claimed that by 2020 there will be a not insignificant surplus of power. It is estimated to be up to 30 TWh. That's 25 pst. of a normal year’s production here in Norway. It's hard for most people to see what this large amount of energy is going to use for. In order to get a reasonably correct answer to what should be done with a profit of 30 TWh, we in the Progress Party believe that an energy plan should be drawn up. I have to ask if the Council of State disagrees with this. I also have to ask – because I expect the answer yes – why the government is so opposed to creating an energy plan, so that you can see where the power is going. Because otherwise it can create an uproar.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2597	I think we're going to be careful about predicting a huge amount of power in the near future. I want to remind the representative Skumsvoll that no later than two years ago we had a very difficult force situation in Norway, and the questions that the department and I got were quite different from what we were going to do with the huge power surpluses, to say it carefully. So I believe that one of our greatest successes in recent years, founded by Eivind Reiten, is the conversion of the energy markets, where you have a free market that allocates resources. That means that making an energy plan where the Storting decides what to use the force for, if I understand Skumsvoll correctly, will be a very strange way of working. Of course, we are now working towards the offer page, and then the offer page will work itself out. If there are then nice prices on power, it will mean that the Norwegian powerful industry faces a very pleasant future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2602	We're impatient to find solutions for the industry, so I have a question that goes a little bit on the time aspect. It's whether we can expect something from the Council of State in this area during the spring. That's the one question. The second question is whether this option should be extended. The representative, Lars Egeland, said in his speech today that long-term rent will distort the government's policy, as I perceived him. My question is whether there is a statement that the Council of State is standing behind. Or is the Council of State open to consider also introducing the possibility of an extended lease term?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2609	The clock of harm I'm not going to promise any of the world's things from this pulpit, except that in the government we're going to evaluate this in the usual way. Then I have received another good advice from a former Right-State Council, Børge Brende, whom he has again received from Kåre Willoch. He said that you should never think out loud from the Storting Chair. I don't intend to do that in this case either. At the moment we have something to announce, it will be announced the Stortinget in the usual way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2616	I noticed that the Council of State said that he would evaluate this now, and that he wrote it, and that he would not answer the question to the representative Meling. But I would like to hear something, which I have so far challenged in my post as well, about how the process is, and how the matter is. I noticed that the Council of State replied to the representative, Skumsvoll, that he did not realize that there was any surplus of power, or that one should at least be careful to predict it. I'm tempted to ask: what makes the Council of State not see a surplus of power in 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2623	To take the first step: the process is, as I notified in my post and in a letter to the committee, that this is the initiative that the government has already taken, the issues that the government has up to date, and when the government has completed the work, which includes major, important issues, it will of course be announced in the ordinary way. Then it's up to the Storting itself to add up to a process that might turn into a law decision. But as I said, I promise I won't do this any more. What I can say is that this is something we're assessing, and at the moment that we're done with it, we'll possibly propose changes for the Storting. In the case of any power surplus or not, I simply pointed out that there is a part of Norwegian reality here that has changed significantly over the last two years. I think we should be careful to base two wet years on future forecasts. So I think we're going to know that we're growing a lot -- there's another million in 20 years, we're going to electrify parts of the base, Hydro reported a new large aluminium mill on Karmøy. [[President clubs]] Well, there's some terrrawatt here and some terrrawatt there, and maybe we have a power market in balance... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2630	Time's up!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2633	What we are dealing with now is to provide the industry with predictable power supplies. When we think about power supply here in Norway, there is largely electricity from renewable sources. But we sell huge amounts of gas that both Europe and the rest of the world want, and that they use, and we are happy about it. Those who use gas in most places expect and consider that there is no pollution from the gas being burned off. Alcoa planned a few years ago to build an aluminium mill near North Cape with 500 jobs where the Barents Sea gas was an energy carrier. We in the Progress Party are very concerned that gas should become a type of energy carrier used in Norway. Can the Council of State go in so that the industry will have more access to it and be allowed to use it until cleaning processes have been developed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2640	The government has nothing against the industry using gas directly in industrial processes – there is nothing wrong with it. These are the same framework conditions for this in Norway as you will find elsewhere in Europe. Then the government has established in line with both government statements that, in the case of the production of power from gas power plants, it must be purified for CO2.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2648	In the mention of the option to take advantage of dividends, the Council of State said in its speech that one of the challenges is issues related to rent taxes, which one of them is looking at. My question to the Council of State is whether there are also other challenges to this option that the Council of State might be able to give some punctuation here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2653	I can't do that on my own. I just announced that the consideration for basic interest tax is an important consideration to take care of. I expect that both the representative Meling and Stortinget will agree that resources subject to property tax should be subject to property tax, and that we should not facilitate a system that allows you to puncture our tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2659	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2664	Norwegian industry has long traditions as power producers. Today, we are handling an important issue for this industry and their ability to have careful access to power. Right? I think that public control of the water resources is important, and that the revenue from our common natural resources benefits the community. Both power plant taxation and concession-based schemes have played and play an important role in ensuring that the excess of hydropower generation also benefits the community. On the right, the consolidation model of the industrial concession law with national ownership supports the exploitation of water power resources. It is also stated in the comments of the Committee of the Right that the consolidation model is based on the ‘overarching future’. It's an important clarification to bring forward. Ensuring safe access to power for industry has been a very important matter for the Right. The majority recommendation of the Committee shows that at a time when almost all Norwegian hydropower will be in public ownership, there is a need to give industry good opportunities for careful access to power. In this case, two concrete measures have been identified to be further elaborated. One is to assess whether the industry can rent power plants from a public owner longer than today, for example. by extending today's maximum lease-out period from 15 to 30 years, thus making renting water power plants a real industrial alternative. Another option might be to give industrial power owners the possibility to take out their share of ownership in the form of power in the event of a change in company form requirements. An example of this may be the ownership of the responsible company in which, by agreement, provision is made for universal voting rules to be applicable in order to retain the majority control of the public operators. In my home country, Hydro’s facilities in Årdal and Høyanger are good examples of the fact that safe access to power has been a decisive factor in establishing and further developing companies that are important both locally, regionally and nationally. They are good examples of Norwegian hydropower's history running parallel to Norwegian industrial development, and the Right wants to facilitate this development. Rightly, industrial policy must be adapted to a time when almost all Norwegian hydropower production will be in public ownership. Therefore, we are also very pleased that we can present this matter to the Stortinget, and we expect the Council of State to continue working on a system that ensures industry access to secure power.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2683	I just want to make a few comments on what the representative, Mr. Egeland, said. I cannot understand the background for renting out power plants for 15 years, but not for 30 years. The logic of that is impossible to understand. I myself have 15 years in a leading position in that industry, and that is a very short period. To plan and build an aluminium mill, it can take eight to ten years. You barely get started before predictability with how much power costs disappears. That's why I would recommend the position to really evaluate this by 30 years, because it's not about giving ownership, it's about renting it out. We must all be interested in the fact that the power-generating industry remains in Norway. After all, today it is approx. 22,000 people directly employed in this industry. So it has meaning, not least for the districts, because these are often corner stone farms, and there may be relatively little other industry and large jobs. This is a matter that should be taken seriously. Don't be a parachutist and say, "No, 15 years last." We can't go any further, because then there's a risk of losing control. It's not at all. To the representative Sande, I would like to say that Hydro's aluminium mill in Qatar is a typical example of a Norwegian company that has moved out, and that is carbon leakage. Hydro is supplied with gas without any cleaning measures. That's the biggest example of emigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2690	This seemed to me to be an interesting and good debate, with some historical reflections as well. There is a lot in place, at least when talking about the theme of ownership of power resources in this country. When the right to return was introduced over 100 years ago, they actually had a two-day debate on it, and fortunately, some forward-looking politicians were perpetuating public ownership of the natural resources and watercourse resources – they were supposed to be in the hands of the people – in hard discussion and the fight against the right forces. This has not only been a debate of historical reluctance, but in many ways also a historic day, because I do not know if it has ever been so clearly expressed by all parties that one is now in favour of public ownership, public control and joining a consolidation model. One gets the deep hope that this isn't rhetoric one has added because one knows that his people's plurals want this, and that there are elections to the fall, but that the parties that are now in favour of this are also on this in the future. Another thing we're also very close to, is that everyone wants the best possible conditions for the power-consuming industry. The proposers have outlined two alternative ways to improve it. I should not go in and – as the Council of State said – think highly about it, whether it is for the benefit of the private owners or whether one should take out the power of dividends, or other options to extend the lease term. I can say that I am well aware that the national meeting of the Workers' Party has made a decision that one can see to be able to extend that lease period from 15 years to 30 years. Here, the Council of State and the Government will be allowed to make good payments, and that is why we have not agreed to reject the proposal in our position. We say that this should be annexed to the protocol, and that is a very traditional way of doing it, when we have in many ways some kind of agreement and intention with the proposal. We then allow the government to work on it, figure it out and come back to Stortinget on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2699	I agree with Mr Rudihagen that it has a good debate. I have two short comments. One is to the representative of Skumsvoll: I have no problem understanding the principle of carbon leakage, nor do I have any problem understanding that Norwegian industry has undergone changes in recent years, which has led to fewer industrial workplaces in our country. What I reacted to was the attempt to owe it to the changes that the government proposed and the Storting decided in 2008, which ensure the community's ownership of the power resources. It seemed to me to be too bad, and in that way Hydro's plant in Qatar is also a bad example, as it had a story that goes way back much further than that. On the other hand, the Progress Party shall be commended for joining the model adopted by the majority of the population at that time, which will guarantee the Community's ownership of these resources. It brings me to point number. 2, which also Torstein Rudihagen was inside. The Council of State now received a number of questions from the opposition in the debate, but in this debate it may be equally exciting to ask questions to the opposition – especially to the Right and the Advance Party. Perhaps they can think of why they have put away old thoughts when it comes to community ownership. Now, what makes a whole heart behind the model that's now going to apply? What is the duration of this? «Overview future» — how far is it? Is it the next period? Is it until the court's national meeting, that I know to discuss the matter? Does this mean that there will be no discussion of the power of ownership at the national meeting? What is the ‘overall future’? It seems to me that it is important to come up with this debate. As a party, it's often the way we adopt programs and policies, and then it's the current policy. It is not time-limited. It might have been interesting at the bottom of the debate to the right and the Progress Party say a little about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2708	The representative Henning Skumsvoll asked what the fundamental difference is between 15 years and 30 years. You could also ask, what is the difference in principle between 30 years and 40 years? Why are we even going to set any limit on rent? The point is that rent should be for a limited period, and no matter what number of years you operate on, the principle is that the rental ratio should be in such a way that it doesn't give a sense of possession, and thus undermine the public ownership of the base power. The main point is that there is no rent of power that is the means to give predictability to industry. It is precisely long-term contracts for the purchase by publicly owned power companies to provide long-term industrial predictability and predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2713	I take the floor at the invitation of the representative Sande to answer some questions. When the Council of State makes a history description of the Right's position on these questions, I do not agree with that description. What is important here is to distinguish between what goes on official control and what goes on public ownership. The right has been engaged in the official control of hydropower resources. The disagreement has probably not been as big as anyone might want to produce it as it is. With regard to the fact that we are now laying the consolidation model on the ground in the foreseeable future, it is for us the current policy. We are pleased that we are now united in this matter on the non-social side, because it gives predictability to the different actors. The hearing shall discuss this issue. There are two of the members of the Programme Committee who take one of them in terms of what we are basing today on the Stortinget. I don't think there's anything that's going to get a majority at the Right National Meeting, so the representative Sande and others can safely assume that this is what we're making of our policy in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2722	The representative Henning Skumsvoll has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2725	I would like to say to the representative of Egeland that there is a significant difference between 15 and 30 years in time. Here we are talking about a long-term industry. If the industry hires the power company, they can produce the power much cheaper than those companies do. It provides predictability for the industry to be able to survive. If not, most of the powerful industry will disappear in 10 to 20 years. With regard to this with the foreseeable future, it is clear that it applies until a new decision is taken. And it's not just the Progress Party, it's the Center Party and all the other parties. A decision shall apply only until a new decision has lifted it. But I hope that the consensus you reached will last for a long, long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2732	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2738	The size should vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2746	In the course of the debate, a total of ten proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–5, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 6 and 7, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 8 and 9, by Per Arne Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 10, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Ten from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government requests the setting up of a Commission to evaluate health management with a view to removing unnecessary reporting and reducing red tape.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2776	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for increased appropriations for the purchase of free capacity by private healthcare providers to bring down today’s health cows.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2791	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the 2013 revised national budget, to present an obligatory plan for the introduction of a national health ICT system that helps to improve internal communication, information flows between hospitals and improved patient safety.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2808	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 7 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to start work on developing a new authorisation system for private institutions and specialist healthcare services that better ensures quality and patient safety.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2823	There is a vote on proposal No. 6 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads: ‘The government is asking the government to promote a thorough review of today’s DRG system in order to correct any bias.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2840	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party and the Christian Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to draw up an annual report on quality and patient safety for the patient and user ombudsman in the light of the national supervision of the Health Authority.’ Proposal No. 5 reads: ‘The government asks the Government to establish a notification system for deviations for the municipal health service.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2862	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to set a time limit within which health establishments must be ISO certified and to require procedures for carrying out safety and vulnerability analyses.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought by the government to set up a permanent Commission for Health Investigation, on the basis of a model drawn up by the State's Committee on Disasters in the transport sector.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to promote its own case for strengthening the medical care system, including new national leadership on content and quality.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2907	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, by Kari Kjønaas Kjos, on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2947	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Act No. 2 June 1989 No. 27 on the marketing of alcoholic beverages n.e.c. Paragraphs 3 to 4 of the third paragraph shall be replaced by the following: Sales by the AS Vinmonopolet shall be prohibited on Sundays and public holidays, 1 and 17 May.» The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e2979	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e3190	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e3200	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e3636	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e3646	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e3798	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 4 and 5, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e3808	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5 from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Swedish authorities to bring up the FRA Act with the Swedish authorities so that monitoring and storage of e-mail and telecommunications by Norwegian citizens in Sweden will no longer become legal in Sweden and that the same data protection is provided in Sweden for Norwegian citizens’ information stored and/or used in Sweden by Swedish citizens for their information.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to look at and come back to Stortinget with proposals for solutions that prevent information and communication from Norwegian citizens being routed via countries which have laws that allow authorities to check the telecommunications and e-mail content of individuals.’ The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e3833	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘the fourth subparagraph of 12-3 shall be replaced by the following: the owner or person entitled to use which is not a State or local authority body may require that electronic communications networks and electronic communications equipment be moved or removed from the property if this is necessary for the appropriate use of the property or the right of use. In the event of non-agreement, the requirement shall be determined by judgement. The same shall apply to any claim for reimbursement of remuneration received after the third subparagraph in respect of removal or removal requirements.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for guidelines on the security of goods and services supplied to critical digital infrastructure, which are largely coordinated with the defence’s requirements for communications networks and communication systems.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up national digging regulations as soon as possible in line with the input from the ICT industry.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e3856	The left has announced support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e5264	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e5274	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e5315	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e5325	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e5333	During the debate, Mr Rudihagen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:31 S [[2012-2013]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e5348	The left has indicated support for the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e5624	The representative, Mrs Skei Grande, has asked for the floor to speak on referral No. 291.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e5627	We would like to express our disagreement with the presidency's assessment of our case. We've treated five years of teacher training many times in the past. What has happened since the throne debate, when that proposal was up, is that almost all the parties in this room have said that they are for a five-year teacher training. So the question is, when are we going to phase it in, and how are we going to phase it in? There is a broad political consensus that you need it. That's the question in Document No. the 8th proposal – not whether to introduce it, but when to introduce it. We disagree with the presidency's assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e5632	The Presidency has decided on this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. First Vice-President Øyvind Korsberg has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e5637	It is absolutely right that the presidency has made a decision in this matter and in two other matters that experience the same fate – to use that expression. It is clear from Storting’s Rules of Procedure that these proposals should be rejected. I have also registered that the Left had not made any alternative proposal either, as we discussed the record instead. I think the presidency has made the right decision. The whole of the Storting has joined the presidency's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-23.ana.ud1980e5642	The President then considers that today's map has been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
