ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e35	Three permit applications are available: from 5 June to 7 June to take part in the Interparliamentary Union Assistance Conference in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, from the Group of the Progressive Party on the Sickness Allowance of Representative Peter N. Myhre from 5 June onwards and until further notice from the Workers' Group on the Sickness Allowance of Representative Wenche Olsen from 5 June until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first and second alternates of the Rogaland County, Terje Halleland and Marit Amundsen respectively, there are applications for waivers for meeting in the Stortinge under the leave of the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Province of Oslo: Sylvi Listhaug For the Rogaland County: Pål Morten Borgli For Eastfold County: Stein Erik Lauvås
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e88	Sylvi Listhaug, Pål Morten Borgli and Stein Erik Lauvås are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e100	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that Foreign Minister Espen Barth Eide and the Councils of State Rigmor Aasrud and Lisbeth Berg-Hansen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Gjermund Hagesetter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e107	The red-green parties have now had government power and the Ministry of Renewal for nearly eight years. Rigmor Aasrud has been the Minister of Renewal for half this time and has been responsible for the renewal of the public sector. While our neighbouring countries are renewing and red tape, many things go wrong in Norway. This is where bureaucracy flourishes. SSB figures show that 39 new bureaucrats are added every working day. The NRC could tell yesterday that the police are now spending more time than ever before on administration and reporting, and that this affects the fight against crime. Before the red-green ones took over, doctors in hospitals spent most of their time treating patients. Yesterday, Hege Güssing, president of the Medical Association, said that the leagues are now spending most of their working day on reporting and administration. Cows for hospitals grow, while health care businesses communicate with municipalities via old fax machines. X-ray image cannot be faxed, so they are sent by taxi. Annual operating expenditure in the departments and underlying agencies has increased by 53 billion. kr since 2005. The increase is more than NOK 10000 per capita in Norway. Apart from the fact that the Progress Party finally got a pass to remove the audit obligation for small businesses, most of the way has gone wrong. Is the Minister for Renewal, who is therefore responsible for renewal and red tape in Norway, pleased with the developments we have seen in this area in the last eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e120	The government has been committed to renewing and improving the public sector, including: through some major reforms such as Nav reform, child care reform and police reform, and a wide range of sectoral actions have also been undertaken to contribute to a more efficient public sector. Our government has invested in the public sector, and therefore there have been more employees both in the police, in health care and in the municipal sector to get good services. That is also why there are more than 700,000 single treatments in our hospitals now than just a few years ago. There is evidence that there is a lot that is good in hospitals as well. The most important thing the government has been working on in recent years is to get more digital solutions, so that it will be better for both the inhabitants and the flow between business and the public. There we have laid a good foundation, and there are many new services established within digital governance, so that we can use our resources to do control tasks, improve the services we have and develop many new services in public. Good digitisation projects have been launched in many different areas. The tax base and the Loan Fund are often mentioned in this context. But I would like to remind you that the vast majority of public agencies have done good digitisation projects that make people more comfortable with the public sector, and we are developing good offers. Today, both the Minister for Fisheries and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are in the Chamber. I would like to remind you of one measure which is quite topical in this way, and it is BarentsWatch, which helps us to better monitor and interact better in the maritime sector in North Norway and in the rest of Norway. This is a good example of how we have contributed to the renewal of the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e133	I note that the Minister of Renewal draws up the Nav reform as an example of the good work the government has done, and I just want to say that it is not all who are equally pleased with the Nav reform that the Minister of Renewal is. In fact, health cows are also growing. One of them is talking about digital solutions, and that's good and good, but it's still the way health professionals communicate with the municipalities via old fax machines, and X-rays are sent by taxi. So I could plan to get a little bit deeper from the Minister of Renewal if there's any plans in this area. Is there any idea when it comes to digital solutions in this area, so you don't fax to each other in 2013, and you don't send x-rays by taxi? Does anyone have any digital solutions on the stairs in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e140	Now health and the digital development of the health sector are under the responsibility of the Minister of Health and Welfare. But major improvements have been made in the health care system, including: through the establishment of Norsk Healthnet, which means that we now have a secure network where information can be sent between health companies and other healthcare providers. There will be successive solutions that can also be used by citizens, including: e-replicability login, and you have a good system of payment of props by obtaining an automatic free card. The establishment of a Norwegian core journal is also a good measure to enable citizens to find simpler solutions from the public. Then it's a big job to get the health care system to hang out with digital solutions. Most hospitals have schemes that are well-used and not necessarily related, but, among other things. by setting up a health network, we will have great improvements.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e147	Four follow-up questions are raised – first the representative Åge Starheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e150	When I entered the Stortinget in 2005 and entered the municipal committee, I was excited about what would happen to improvement and renewal within this field. I just have to say that on the same lines as most people and business, I've been very disappointed in what you've got. I hear the answer from the Council of State. It points to several fields where progress has been made. Now we can read from public statistics about just a lot of these fields, and we can also right from professionals that they have very critical comments on this. Even for agricultural bureaucrats, the number has increased, despite the dramatic decline in the number of farmers. My question then is: is it that a person uses this as a pure employment, in the hope that the official statistics on the unemployed will be lowered?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e159	I want to take a strong distance from running active employment measures through the state organisations we have. There are people who work a lot and follow up on what both the government and the government have decided, so we don't use public jobs in central government and in agricultural management in any way to take public employment measures. There are complex areas, there are many applications to be dealt with, and agricultural management is also among those who work a lot to find good, efficient and new digital solutions, so that work can be made even more efficient in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e166	Michael Tetzschner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e169	If you want to fight bureaucracy, it's often a good start to start at the top. What I'm looking for is the ministry's significant contribution to the red tape of central government. In fact, more than any previous government, this government has been committed to strengthening the PR side of the policy, selling its policy and working in a day-to-day media. This has led to an explosion in the number of political staff around the Council of State, and the signals from the department are that this is often subordinate to the party-politically independent professional environments in the departments. This is a development that concerns the Council of State, that it is more concerned about selling policies and not implementing decisions than actually implementing decisions, for example. understood in this hall?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e177	I agree that, of course, we should focus most strongly on implementing the policy that is determined, both in this room and internally in the government, but we are experiencing a completely different media everyday today. There are many more in the media to have information from our bureaucracy, and there are many more surfaces to be served. Among other things, I think it is important that the public sector is also good at being on social media and can participate in informing people through them. That makes us need more people to work on it as well. Then there has been no explosion in the departments. The largest explosion, if you can call it that, has been in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There we have established a service centre that is up 24 hours a day seven days a week to serve the Nordics who are abroad. It's a wild policy from the government side: I think it's been good, and I think it's welcomed by a lot of people who need that kind of service when it's needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e184	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e187	There are many factors that lead to an ever-increasing bureaucracy. Increased reporting requirements are some. We hear about hospitals where doctors spend more time on reports than on patients, about the police who are being read down by papers, about teachers who spend more and more time sending in forms and completing reports. At the same time, we see an increasing number of employees in the state and municipality sitting on the other side and accepting. They must examine these reports, the forms and the papers. Then the reports will be checked and reviewed – like two or three times. Much of the blame for this is that we politicians have. Many of the reports end up on the table for us politicians. I don't dare think about how many day works, perhaps annual works, with reports that have agreed to fill the percussions and shelves of the Council of State with figures and statistics. Repeatedly, this has been lifted, and you have been promised that we will do something about this. Can the Council of States tell me exactly in what areas she sees that improvements can be made?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e196	First, I want to say that the number of employees in the state bureaucracy, if we measure it against the number of employees in Norway, is constantly on about 30 pst. We have had a very large population growth in Norway. We've got more health professionals. We've got more people working in the police department. Then there will necessarily also have to be someone who is working to provide pay and systems for them. Then it's important, and I fully agree with the representative, Mr Becquerad, that we constantly have a critical look at what we expect from reporting, and whether we need all the reporting we have. That is why we have developed COSTRA for the municipal sector. That is why we are now developing StatRes for the State sector, so that we can get consistent reporting in the areas once a year and let go of so much detail regulation. I think that's one of the most important measures we can do, so we don't have to ask for new reports all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e203	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e206	Now it seemed that the Council’s approach to reporting is new reporting. There are very good intentions behind a lot of bureaucracy. It's not like someone's doing things that seem completely meaningless. Most of them have got a problem. But when you see everything in sum, you see that bureaucracy becomes too much for business, which is going to be related to the production of the goods and services they are going to sell. There's too much for the teachers, who should actually care about the teaching they're going to teach. There'll be too much for doctors and nurses. That is why the Left has proposed a rule board for business. We've been downplayed on that. This has worked well in very many other countries. We've suggested the same thing in school. We've been downplayed on that. We have proposed a commission within the hospitals that may have a general view of cleaning the rules. The government is downgrading everything. What are the proposals of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e211	I believe that if we are to get rid of unnecessary reporting, we must take sector by sector, and the Minister of Industry has done so. That's what the Minister of Finance is doing. We have now taken an initiative to look at what are citizen-oriented solutions and see if we can simplify more there. But basically, it's like being able to report together once, so we can get information from the reports that were made, and we're not asking for special reports when there's something we're asking about. I think that both we who are in the process, and we who are in the government, are going to be a little bit tougher to say that it is possible to find information in other ways than to ask for special reports. We can get better at that in the government, and I think together we might also have a little more liberality so that we don't know everything when we're going to shape our policy. But I believe that what we have done within StatRes is a good contribution. It has to be further developed, so that we get more consistent reporting in.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e220	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e223	As a well-known employer, the Employment Environment Act requires that procedures be drawn up in order to be able to receive internal warnings, including irregularities, maladministration and other. We are talking about the warning rules imposed on all employers. Even the smallest bakery company is required to document the rapid and active follow-up of such warnings. The Ministry of Renewal has successfully developed guidelines on how this should be followed up in the State and in the Government. We can read in the newspapers that an internal warning of alleged threat use in connection with the reorganisation of the Special Forces was received by the Minister of Defence personally in February and followed up in May — three months later. My question to the government council responsible for this legislation is as follows: How has the Council of State assured itself that the guidelines she has drawn up for alerts have been introduced in the departments of trade and that they are actually followed in everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e232	It is true that there are quite extensive rules for alerting in my ministry that will apply to the State sector and in the individual departments. When we implement and propose such guidelines, it is up to each department to ensure that they are implemented in its own organisation. As far as I'm aware, it's done in the Department of Defense as well. Then I understand that there has been a mistake, and that you have not followed the rules that were then established, completely, at one point in time. There are therefore established procedures in my department – quite extensive ones. I'm probably a little concerned that the routines can be a bit extensive when I look at the material that has been developed. Perhaps we should think and consider some simplifications also in that warning regime. But when it comes to alerting, it is important that you have good routines for it, so that both the alert is well taken into account and the alert applies. I believe we have established procedures, and I also understand that there were established procedures in the Ministry of Defence. With regard to the internal procedure there, it is the Minister of Defence who is responsible for it and has to answer for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e237	It is excellent that it is such that the Council of State can say with certainty that there are procedures in its own department. However, the question concerned whether she had made sure that it was properly implemented in the other departments and that it is also caught up in the day-to-day running of messages. My question will be whether the Council of State will consider clarifying to its colleagues that there are no formal requirements as to how the alerts are designed, that it is very possible that alerts can be sent by e-mail in our time, and that when you receive e-mails about service matters, it may be that the information is actually in the annex?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e243	If there is a lack of clarity around the legislation, it is now possible to clarify it. In any situation that arises where things have gone wrong, there may be a basis for recalling the rules and taking a round of them, so that we make sure that we have good routines established in the individual departments.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e248	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Ine M. Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e251	The Council of State's response was interesting when she said that it is up to each department to ensure that the guidelines are implemented. At the same time, she says that the guidelines have not been followed in the case concerning the warning to the Ministry of Defence. The question then arises as to how the Council of State can be sure whether the legislation has been implemented in the other departments, and not least whether there is a need for action against the Ministry of Defence in particular, since the procedures have obviously not been followed there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e256	When the government decides on internal procedures, it is expected that it will be followed up by the individual departments. If there is a lack of clarity about interpretation of the legislation, I would of course be able to help us address it through the appropriate channels established for interaction between the departments on the staff side, as well as the memory of government councils and others receiving such alerts, that there are procedures in place. Secondly, how the case is handled in the Ministry of Defence, I think it must be the Minister of Defence who answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e261	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e264	The council once again says, if it has been. The question is not if it has been. I think we've been told that it looks like it just failed. It does not help with guidelines if they are not followed. That's why it's important to make sure of this. Of course, it also applies at the top level — at the Council level — to actually read the e-mails with attachments that you get. My question to the Council of State is: can the Council of State now confirm here — without using the words ‘if’, ‘if’, ‘if’, ‘if’, ‘if’, etc. – that she will grasp it, and that she will check that these guidelines are being followed, so that you do not get this uncertainty that the Council of State has so far given?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e271	Yes, if it can calm the opposition, of course I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e276	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e279	I hope the government's focus isn't on the opposition, but actually on those who warn. It's on them this government has to focus. We had a significant debate here in Stortinget two years ago on the initiative of the Left on alerts. The Council of State then stated that there was a need to increase awareness of the warning rules. Are there any recent events that the Council of State believes should continue to give rise to an increased focus on strengthening the knowledge of the alert rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e286	I agree that it is important that there is a good knowledge of the warning rules both in departments, in directorates and also in the ordinary working life. It is demanding to be alerts. We've seen that in some contexts. Therefore, it is important that there is knowledge of the warning rules and that good procedures are in place to monitor alerts. I believe that there are procedures in place in the various departments. But as I said, today's debate suggests that it is desirable to clarify and continue to make sure that this is in place. Of course I will.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e291	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e295	The alerts I have been working with in my time as a politician have been largely in the public domain. It has also been quite high in the system, where there are few mechanisms to use alerts as mechanisms other than those found in private business. Today, the government has not wanted to change the law, so it is the warner who is obliged to notify you properly, as it says in the law. It is the warning that a seaman must assess what is sound. The whole burden of proof and the entire assessment lies with the alert. These are rather tough judgements and rather tough decisions to make. We wanted a separate warning unit from the Labour Inspectorate so that people could be counselled. We have a lot of examples now that the public way up the system can't do this. It is the responsibility of this Council of States. What will the Council of State do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e302	With regard to the Labour Inspectorate and the establishment of a separate warning unit, it is under the responsibility of the Minister of Labour. When it comes to alerting the state administration that is my responsibility, I think it's just to make sure that the knowledge is there, that the routines are established, that it's addressed in management meetings, that the trustees can provide advice on alerts and that there are established rules that are transparent so that the alerter knows what you're going to do. I think that's the most important thing when you're going to go into tough alerts. I agree with the representative of Skei Grande that it is difficult to be alerts, and that many people feel that it is demanding. Therefore, we need to have routines to take alerts seriously, and that it is followed up carefully when such things come up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e309	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e312	The question goes to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. The salmon fishing season is in full swing and the Scientific Council for Salmon Management has recently presented the report ‘Status for Norwegian salmon populations in 2013’. It refers to a development where there are both negative but also several positive features for salmon populations. One of the conclusions is that ‘Spaced farmed salmon and salmonnus appear as clearly unstabilised threats’ against Norwegian salmon. Although some measures have been taken, this is countered by strong growth in production — a total of 40 pst. in the last three years. The Marine Research Institute concluded in 2012 that the risk profile has deteriorated. After many years at the rudder, there is reason to ask the Minister for Fisheries about the principle approach the government has taken to salmon management. The size shall deal with the maritime feed notification during the next week. In the Communication, there is a subchapter on sustainability indicators and limit values for salmon and escape. Here we can read with some amazement the following: ‘Although the objective is to minimise the environmental impact of the aquaculture industry, the consideration of seafood production and other related societal activities will also need to be assessed before action is taken. Therefore, in cases where consideration of seafood production and other social activities related to these roads outweighs the consideration of wild stocks of anadromous salmonids, it may be appropriate not to take action.» Translated to Norwegian: In certain cases, the intention of farming must go ahead of the preservation of wild breeds. The question to the Council of State will then be: can the Council of State clarify in which cases the consideration of the farming industry should take precedence over the consideration of wild game?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e326	I have had the pleasure of debate many times in this Chamber on questions relating to wild birds. I feel that there is a great deal of consensus that the two threats presented by the aquaculture industry to the wild axis are lice and escape – the two areas that the representative, Håbreek, draws on. When he describes the risk picture as aggravating, it probably depends a little on how to read the reports. I'm following developments closely, both in terms of lice and escape. The main picture is that at national level the lice pressure from the aquaculture industry has fallen, i.e. the number of lice per fish is lower year by year. Fortunately, it's been like this for the last three years. In the case of evacuation, the exact same thing happens: the number of escape incidents has decreased. Each of them may have been larger, but the overall picture — and hopefully the trend — is that escape also goes down. Then it is the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment for the management of wild birds. My responsibility is linked to the impact of the aquaculture industry on the wild species. It's a responsibility I take very seriously. When we describe that, in some cases, there are considerations other than the wild axis that weigh the most, it is first because the wild axis as a species is not threatened. Fortunately, we get a lot of positive feedback, not least as far as last year, that the broodstocks were reached, at least in the rivers that were then mentioned. In some cases it may be said that there is a great deal of pressure here, but it is still considered that it is socially sound to take into account seafood production. It's about producing food – it's about jobs. There are priorities and assessments that politicians must constantly make.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e341	I thank you for your answer. There is no doubt that these reports, no matter how we read them, describe a significant risk profile for wild fish stocks around Norwegian streams. The question really concerns the fundamental question: how do we approach the framework conditions for the farming industry? You have the farming industry on the one hand and the wild and the ecosystems on the other. Are there two interests to be balanced only in relation to each other, or is it such that the farming industry is to operate within the framework set by ecosystems and the wild species? It's a fundamental clarification that's very important to get. But I don't fully appreciate the answer to my specific question, so I think I have to repeat it: can the Council of State elaborate in which cases you can let the farming industry go ahead of the wild?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e348	Let there be no doubt in this room that the farming industry should not affect the wild axis, either in the case of lice or escape, which could result in the entire wild-tail population being at risk of extinction. I think everyone definitely agrees on that. So there will be differences from river to river on what each river tolerates, not least related to escape. When we have presented what can be called first-generation sustainability indicators in the maritime food communication, it is precisely about the balance: what do you tolerate in the different areas? This has been developed in parallel with the Ministry of the Environment's quality standard for wild salmon. Here you have to use the knowledge you have, which is not always good enough, but which is working on developing. It's about putting the knowledge into the system, to see what the wild axis can withstand.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e355	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first from the representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e358	I record that the Council of State will not respond to the cases in which the farms and the farming industry will take precedence over the wild species. But it doesn't make sense to spend time asking the question again when the Council of State deliberately chooses not to answer it. Just to show a little bit of the challenge: there are 1000 farmed fish per year. wild axes in the sea. This means that there is a significant risk associated with the farms. I think we all agree that there is a need for technology development in this field. This is why we are concerned that better facilities can be provided to ensure that escape is avoided, for example. closures or other similar technologies, improved labelling technologies and to combat lice. The question is: does the Council of State consider that the industry itself will take initiatives to develop technology for increased safety in installations without incentives and regulatory requirements, or does the Council of State see that there is a greater need to facilitate technological development?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e365	In addition to the maritime food notification, the government has presented amendments to the Aquaculture Act, which strengthens the environmental perspective of the Aquaculture Act. There we propose, among other things: an authorization to mark wild axes. It will be a means of tracing any escaped farmed salmon in rivers. We stimulate technology development by what we've been notifying about green concessions. You say to get a new concession, you have to have a solution related to lice or escape that is better than today's system. When I travel around and meet the farming industry and others, not least the technology environments and the technology companies, it's an enormous activity related to getting solutions that are better than today's. So it's absolutely true that 1,000 farmed salmon per wild-axis – or it's not true... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e376	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e380	When there are 1000 farmed salmon per. wildaxes, most of these are in cages – in enclosed mercenaries. It's when they get outside the mermaids, it's going to be a problem – not as long as they're in mermaids. On Monday, the Storting will discuss several issues, such as: the law on aquaculture, the notification of seafood and the law on fish sales. Some of the issues raised are not covered by these cases. This concerns the relationship between the farmed fish and the wild species. It is mentioned, but to a small extent, in these messages. My questions to the Council of State are: What can be done to reduce the conflict, so that you have the same perception of the situation, between the breeders and the wild caught trailers? Will the Council of State ensure that significant independent research is carried out related to the direct impact of farmed fish on the wildfish stock?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e387	Let me first thank the representative Nesvik for finishing my sentence. It may be alarming that the Progress Party is able to complete the sentence of a working party politician, but that is exactly what happened. – Most farmed salmon are enclosed – and shall be enclosed. We are also at the heart of the question: what are we going to do to reduce the conflict between the aquaculture industry and the wild game industry? Firstly, it is a matter of supplying the farming industry with the environmental requirements it imposes, whether in the case of lice or escape. I feel that it does the industry, and that it's a great commitment to contributing to it. They have set up their own environmental fund to help some rivers, whether they are fishing or other things. So the question of significant independent research. All the research we have is independent. All researchers who work in this field come with what needs to be said to be independent results. We ask a lot of questions and get a lot of answers. More questions can be asked – we will ask them – and I hope that we can get even more good answers on the relationship between the two industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e396	Torgeir Dahl – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e399	The theme we are addressing here is at the intersection of important environmental and industrial interests. It is important to preserve the wild salmon strain. It is also important to maintain important interests in aquaculture, which will grow in a sustainable way. In the government's proposal for amendments to the Aquaculture Act, Section 13a amends that the entire aquaculture industry may be subject to a levy to establish a fund to cover the costs associated with the destocking of escaped farmed fish. There are currently available technologies that provide full traceability of farmed salmon against the individual mercenary. Technology is humane, and it is economically sustainable. So here lies the polluter-pays principle. Does the Council see that by imposing such a collective charge, the polluter pays principle is actually eroded by the fact that the individual breeder does not have an incentive to secure himself against escape?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e408	The background to the proposal on the home is related to escaped farmed salmon. The polluter-pays principle is also linked to that area, but unfortunately we have seen examples of how difficult it is to recover to the plant from which the fish have escaped. Now, fortunately, scientists have developed DNA tracking that has been used with good luck, but despite that, we see that it doesn't always work. There are several ways to address that issue. One is just keeping the salmon in mermaids. I think the industry has everything to do. But it is clear that the more examples we have of escape, and where one does not succeed in finding it, the more there is a requirement for labelling and, not least, for joint responsibility in relation to de-fishing. If you succeed with sterile farmed salmon — if it is possible to do so — the problem will actually be solved, as it would be completely harmless if it were to end up in a river. So here are several roads to Rome.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e415	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e418	I see that the Minister for Fisheries and the Coast expects her to remain standing, and that is quite right, the Council of State can. My question relates to a look-up in the Fisheries newspaper Fisherman of Wednesday, 29 May 2013, where the board member of the Network Fjord and Coastal Municipalities of Kjetil Hestad, rapporteur in Tysnes and, as far as I know, former employee of the Workers' Group, is speaking in connection with the area for future production of salmon along the coast. As you know, there is a lot of demand, fortunately, for Norwegian salmon and trout. We produce good products – they are competitive on price and not least on quality. We also have a goal to increase production significantly. If we're going to do that, we're also dependent on accessing more space, and then you have to have the municipalities on the team. For a number of years, the Progress Party has proposed, inter alia: remuneration for breeding concessions shall be due to the municipalities and not to the state and county. In the maritime food notification, the government has now also come to the conclusion that one should at least look at it a little bit more, but one has not concluded on the size of it. I expect the Council of State to do so quickly, in connection with the budget, for example. My question to the Council of State relates to the play of this organisation that the area charge is to be reduced in income tax, or company tax, so that the industry will not pay more, but that the state will be left with a little less of the revenue, which will then be due to the municipalities for a fee. Is this something that the Council of State is willing to look at, or is she determined that NFFK's play is regrettable?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e429	On my trips along the coast, I meet many rapporteurs, and I encounter roughly two types of people in the sense that someone is very satisfied with the farming industry, and some are less satisfied. Those who are very pleased have in their home communities companies that have a great deal of activity related to the pure production of fish for food or seedfish. Those who are even more satisfied are those who have high employment slaughterhouses and processing plants. I have great respect for the rapporteurs who are concerned about their municipality, about creating activity, jobs and thereby good environments for people in their municipality. I myself have been a local politician for four periods and know a lot about it. So the question is, how do you get it done? I believe that the best way to manage the activity in those municipalities is that the farming industry also takes greater responsibility for creating that activity – but, of course, given that it is profitable – by increasing the processing rate in Norway. I have to say that it has been one of my chauffeurs, which I have not least mentioned on many occasions in this Chamber. When I see that there are several companies that are making arrangements to increase processing, not because the Minister for Fisheries and Coast has asked them to do so, but because they think it is profitable, I am very happy about it. I insist that remuneration to the municipalities is a good idea and will, of course, come back to that. I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Finance will respond if I now say that reducing company tax should be a relatively simple matter – it is, of course, the Minister of Finance who is responsible for that tax too.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e438	Harald T. Nesvik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e441	What this is about is how we can get these municipalities more on the ground in order to get rid of the area. The Council of State knows at least as well as the undersigned that in many ways the types of income with which the different municipalities are left are divided. In those areas where one has the production-related, such as slaughterhouse, packing shop, sales organisation, seed-fishing facilities, etc., there is employment and thus income in the municipal fund. In those municipalities that only have the farm itself, the types of income you are left with are limited as a result of the fact that there are not so many employees on these platforms at all times. That's what does, among other things. that part of these municipalities comes with such plays. I think it is very good that the Council of State turns around and will agree that the municipalities will get part of the cake at least. As late as December, all the government parties voted down the proposal of the Progress Party that a remuneration should go to the municipalities, not to the county municipalities. Will the Council of State at least consider the proposal and engage in dialogue with these municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e448	I often have dialogue with these municipalities, both in my office and not least in meetings around where they live. There is no doubt that available land is an important factor in achieving the objective of producing more healthy seafood in Norway. If we're going to be the world's foremost maritime union, which I've come to understand is a broad political consensus, we have to facilitate it. But I also think it's important to think about what kind of areas we're talking about. I think that also the farming industry is now looking at whether part of the area along the coast that so far has not been in use, maybe can be used – maybe a little bit further out, maybe even a little further in. It has now developed what, at least so far, looks like interesting technology solutions related to combinations of having it further inland and closed sea installations. I think we'll see a new farming industry that will also use land in a different and better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e454	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Torgeir Treldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e457	In many municipalities around the country, there is now a refusal to obtain farming concessions on salmon. That is what you do, among other things. because it is believed that there is nothing left, such as jobs and income in municipalities. What you are asking for is that the entire concession fee that has to be paid, which today goes to the county, should go to the municipalities. One of the rapporteurs with whom I spoke said that if you get the concession fee in full to the municipality, you will probably be able to give more space. So my question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State agree with the Progress Party that we are paying all concession fees to the municipalities, and will the Council of State – I was about to say as soon as possible – do something about it, so that the municipalities can say yes and we can get more land use?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e464	The government has now submitted a maritime food report where we do not say anything about how much, but at least that part of the fee should go to the municipalities. This will be a question that needs to be addressed in each allocation round. In the award round we are now in the middle, the remuneration goes to the county and the state, but what we have announced and proposed for the future is that the municipalities should have at least part of it – that’s about paying the costs associated with processing an application process. I'm not going to take a long academic round on the definition of «many», but: Yes, there are municipalities that have said no, but to say that there are many, I think it's hard to take, so I don't want it to be a leftover impression. On the other hand, I am meeting many rapporteurs who would very much like to have activities related to the aquaculture industry in their municipality, and would like to facilitate this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e471	Torgeir Dahl – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e474	Then I have to admit that I am the rapporteur in one of the municipalities that have said no, and it has just been based on an assessment of the extent to which the farming industry in that municipality would contribute to sustainable value creation. In a municipality there will always be a balance between value creation, the environmental aspect and any other industries. This is an industry that requires large seas, and thus each municipality is placed under such an assessment. So we know today that county councils get a significant share of these concession fees on new concessions, and it's going to be a consideration for taking that application process. I want to challenge the state council more generally. In other words, what kind of incentives does the Council of State see that municipalities can receive a one-off payment through a concession fee, in so far as the municipalities do not have a typical slaughter establishment or other types of establishment within their borders?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e483	As I said, there are some municipalities that have said no, and I have met representatives from several of them. I guess I should also be allowed to say that I am a little surprised by some of those municipalities, for example. a municipality in the north which claims that they have nothing left to facilitate the area of the aquaculture industry, and then they have a large fish feed factory in the middle of their municipality. I would say that is an activity related to the aquaculture industry that is significant. But once again, it is important to increase the activity related to processing – related to value creation – which I would like to emphasise again must be profitable, but we also have activity related to residual raw materials. I have visited several companies that are doing it. So there's a lack of activity related to the aquaculture industry. But then I would also like to stress that this should be a motive for us, whether we are rapporteurs or local politicians. Giving food to the world is not the worst goal either, then.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e490	Then we go to the next main question, which will be the last main question, not just today, but in this magnification period. The main question is asked by the representative of Ine M. Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e493	My question goes to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I might not have expected it to be that historic, but I'll tell you anyway. The situation in Syria now goes from bad to worse. The struggles are spreading, the abuses are becoming more brutal, and the conflict is becoming increasingly sectarian. There are increasingly clear indications also of the use of chemical weapons, and regional actors such as Iran and not least the Hezbollah militia in Lebanon are now taking an increasingly active part in the fighting. After the EU lifted its arms embargo on 31 May, there are also clear expectations that it will flood even more weapons into Syria, while Russia continues to arm Assad's army. There's almost 80,000 killed, there's millions on the run in Syria and from Syria. The neighbouring countries receive more than 8 000 people each day, and the reception apparatus in neighbouring countries, which has taken a great deal of responsibility, is now breaking down completely. The Foreign and Defence Committee itself visited a refugee camp in Kilis, Turkey, for example. an hour from Aleppo, in November, and then and heard, of course, how this affects people who have lost everything and who have had to flee from everything. There is a great danger that the conflict will also spread in a region that is already unstable, more or less in fire, and in particular through what is now happening in Lebanon, a country that itself has the potential to be a powder keg, where you now see battles. It will be interesting to hear how the Minister for Foreign Affairs further assesses the situation, and not least what the international community can now do and how Norway can contribute. The important thing here is that the conflict does not spread further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e502	Let me first say that I'm glad that in the last questioning period there was also a little focus on the world out there. And I want to say to the question from Eriksen Soreide that I fully share the analysis of how serious it is. It has definitely gone from evil to worse, there is a significant risk of regional spread, and a number of actors, not only Iran and Hezbollah, but also a number of Arab countries, are now using Syria as a springboard for their historical conflicts. So this is an international conflict, which is currently taking place on Syrian territory, but already now with ‘game over’ into e.g. Lebanon. In the near future, I'm going to visit a refugee camp in Jordan with the High Commissioner for Refugees, and we're a very big player from Norway. Only in 2013 we've already given 310 million. humanitarian aid. It's necessary, but it doesn't solve the problem. To the question of chemical weapons: I had a meeting with the Director-General yesterday in what is called OPCW, which is the organisation to follow the ban on chemical weapons, which has been visiting Norway just to talk about how we are going to tighten up our efforts to prevent the use of chemical weapons in Syria and to provide more information about what is actually done by who. It is a very important work and it is an absolute requirement for Syrian authorities to allow inspectors to enter. Syrian authorities themselves claim that they have not used chemical weapons. Then they should open up and let the UN possibly verify it. With regard to the prospects for the solution, they are currently quite pale, but Russian-American cooperation on a peace conference is something we strongly support. It is important that the parties use that opportunity to initiate some form of political dialogue, for more weapons, more violence will only lead to even more destruction, even more hatred and hostility, and even greater risk of spreading. So that's one hope we have right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e511	The Foreign Minister mentions Russia's role, which has changed slightly lately. But there is no doubt that the members of the Security Council have a special responsibility and that the Russians have so far been extremely destructive in finding solutions. No later than Saturday, 1 June, Russia blocked in the Security Council a resolution that called for the protection and protection of civilians in Qusair, and it is a line that, in my opinion, shows that there is no great intention of finding a solution. In previous rounds, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United Kingdom has also assured the Government that it will deal with Russia and also show the close bilateral relationship between Norway and Russia. And in this context, of course, the question is how Norway now deals with it, and how to formulate itself towards Russia in order to make Russia choose a more constructive line in terms of a political solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e516	I have to answer that very concretely. I'm meeting Foreign Minister Lavrov in a few hours in Kaliningrad, and we have a bilateral meeting tonight. I am going to talk about the Syria situation with him, both pointing out what we have already said about our position that the members of the Security Council must talk together to a common position, that we have supported the work of getting a resolution on humanitarian access, that we want to build on it that the Russians also express concern about chemical weapons – the use of chemical weapons, but also chemical weapons on the way – as an entrance, and that we support the work that my colleagues Kerry and Lavrov are doing together to get to a peace conference, but that it must go quickly, and that must be real will. And all parties, not least Russia, must put pressure on those they are talking to in Syria, in order to get them to live up to the degree of humanity in the short term, and in the long term be willing to engage in a dialogue, because it is only through a negotiated solution that this can be resolved. There does not seem to be any prospect of a military victory for the opposition, nor of a military victory for the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e522	There are three follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e525	There is every reason to wish the Foreign Minister good luck with his talks with Lavrov, and I assume that the Foreign Minister clearly states that Norway, like the rest of the world, expects more from Russia. Syria-tradone has been for two years now, with the fatal consequences of this. In this round, Hezbollah has revealed what that organisation really is, a Shia Muslim terrorist organization. I assume that Norway no longer contributes any financial support directly or indirectly to this organisation and asks the Minister for Foreign Affairs to comment on the possibility of the conflict spreading on Lebanese grounds, with the consequences. Then the Middle East is really going to be put in full fire.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e532	I thank you for the congratulations. There may be a need in this case. We are definitely of the opinion that Russia can do more. There may also be other members of the Security Council, because it is important that they talk together. The absence of consensus in the Security Council is a problem in itself. It's almost like this – as the previous question was about – that almost any statement they could gather about would be a progress, because it sends a very negative signal that the Security Council is split. And there, Lavrov and Russia have an important job to do. It goes along the tracks – to say it – connected to the work against chemical weapons, where we agree with Russia. We have also had good meetings with Lavrov in the NATO/Russia Council on that very question, although we disagree on other things. I would also like to stress that, of course, we do not support Hizbollah in any way – that should be lacking.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e537	Tom Staahle – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e540	‘The war in Syria is the greatest disaster of our time’, says UN inspector Pinheiro. The numbers that were referred from a previous ask here, just underline the fact. Now, suspecting the use of chemical weapons makes the situation even more serious. The civilian population lives in an inferno, and the number of dead and wounded escalates for every day. How does the Council of States view the role of the United Nations and of the world society and the instrument we have and our inability to do anything in serious conflicts of this kind?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e545	If this is a general question, I would say that the question is very complex. The UN has just shown a considerable capacity and willingness to do something about the crisis, for example. Mali and Sahel. At the same time, they have shown a failing ability to do something about the crisis in Syria. And the difference between the two is that there is a basic consensus about Mali and deep disagreement about Syria. It obviously reflects on what the Security Council decides and authorises. There are, of course, other aspects of the UN system – such as: the former UN High Commissioner for Refugees, who is doing a very important job. OCHA – the other parts of the humanitarian apparatus – is now being used too fully to facilitate the response to the humanitarian crisis. In essence, we need a political consensus in the Security Council, and it is the five permanent members – and really the ones alone – who can now really contribute to that consensus. They don't know that so far. It's got to be plan A. But it is a step forward that Russia and the United States have joined forces to convene a peace conference.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e550	Kjell Arvid Svendsen – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e553	I record that there is a large consensus in the seriousness of the situation in Syria, and there is clearly an increasing risk of the conflict spreading to other countries. The war has been marked by war with substitutes. We have argued that rebels are being supported by Sunni Muslim countries – Saudi Arabia and Qatar. The Assad regime receives material support from Shia friends in Iran, the Great Act of Russia, and not least from Hezbollah, Lebanon. This does not only create a danger of destabilization in the fragile peace in Lebanon, where Hezbollah has almost become a state in the state. It increases the risk of Israel being involved in the war. And after the war between Hezbollah and Israel in 2006, Israel is increasingly concerned that Hezbollah – in violation of the UN – has refurbished its war machine to new heights. How does the Foreign Minister assess the danger that Hezbollah's participation in the war can destabilise Lebanon and then drag Israel into the war?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e560	I consider the risk of regional dispersal to be very high. I believe – just as the questioner – that Lebanon is perhaps the leading candidate. There we've already seen hits that are a direct derivative of what's happening inside Syria. We see that Lebanese actors, like Hezbollah, are active inside Syria. We have also seen a sharp deterioration in Iraq, which was already on a negative course, but which has been greatly reinforced by what is happening in Syria. The regional spread risk is acute and high, and the risk of Israel being directly involved is, I believe, somewhat less. I perceive that Israel is dealing with this part of its foreign and security policy in a sensible way here and now. But it is clear that the indirect effect on Israel's security in Lebanon too is obvious, and we are closely following that. That's one of the reasons why it's important to help try to resolve the conflict before it gets even worse than it already is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e565	Thus, the last oral question procedure in this ageing period is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e577	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Lars Myraune to the Minister of Defence, has been withdrawn. Question 3, from the representative Tom Staahle to the Minister for Defence, has been withdrawn. Question 4, from the representative of Svein Harberg to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has been removed. Question 5, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e598	I will ask the Minister for the Environment: ‘The Rondane-Silden Regional Plan has been the subject of a very broad participation process from all relevant municipalities, rightholders and two counties over several years. The Ministry has shocked everyone at a meeting on 13 May 2013 at Hamar to set aside all dialogues with other departments and local interests and only to inform about changes to the plan. Political management did not attend this meeting. Will the Council of State quickly correct the process, or will this be an example of state override?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e607	In 2007, the Ministry of the Environment asked the municipalities concerned to draw up plans for a holistic management of mountain areas which are particularly important for the future of the wild rain in Norway. Seven regional plans have started up, and ten county municipalities are involved in the planning work. For the first three planning processes, regional treatment has been completed and the Ministry of Environment has been sent out with plans. The plan for the Hardanger range is well worked out. The Ministry believes that national concerns are well taken care of. The plans for Setesdalsheiane and Rondane-Silenkladet are being dealt with in the department after the statesmen have objected to part of the plans. It is the Ministry of the Environment that will make the final decision whether or not to modify the plans. This decision will be taken in consultation with the department concerned. The Ministry of Environment attaches great importance to the existence of living areas and agglomerations in the planning area, which is a good basis for nutrition. At the same time, the Ministry has a primary responsibility for running the wild train. Norway manages the last remnant of wild reindeer in Europe. Therefore, we have a national – and not least an international – responsibility for ensuring ample living space and long-term good conditions for the wild. It's this bias that's been made in the planning process, and that the statesmen have objected to. In a dialogue meeting in Hamar in May, the ministry of the department presented what concrete changes my department should make to the plan. It was Hedmark County Municipality that invited you to the meeting, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Environment. All municipalities throughout the planning area were invited, and most participated. The purpose of the meeting was to provide the municipalities and municipalities with information at the same time, and then to allow them to discuss the proposed changes and give feedback to the department both in the meeting and afterwards. The change area was already notified in the autumn of 2012. We have received feedback from ten municipalities and both counties. I'm now going through the incoming questions carefully. I have also discussed them with the most concerned departments. I now want to contact the county councils and municipalities to discuss the changes that we still think are necessary. An invitation to such a meeting expires these days. One will also keep in regular contact with other departments to get a quick clarification on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e622	Then I expect that the Council of State has received the same letter – or at least the same content – as we have received from the County Council. It is a ghastly criticism of the ministry — a frightful example of state overarching and bureaucratic arrogance. I have to say, I am amazed that a few bureaucrats can overrule 14 municipalities and two county councils – and that with the justification of the error. The wild train is important. There are hardly any of these municipalities that don't want to take account of the wild train. I would quote the statement given in the letter from the county councils – both Uppland and Hedmark county municipalities: ‘In conclusion, the proposed plan is in line with the Ministry of the Environment’s order and that the plan is a good tool for ensuring the living conditions of the wild reindeer in order to balance it against other important societal interests.’ And then the department – or two employees somewhere – sits and overrides the assessments that all stakeholders in these municipalities and county municipalities have come to be a good plan. I repeat the question: will the Council of State correct the process?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e632	‘And it’s for the sake of wild purity’, said the representative, Gundersen, before he got into it. Villrein is a central Norwegian environmental interest. We have a responsibility to manage the wild train that is very special, as we have with e.g. wild breeds, and which can be compared to what India has with tigers, or other countries have with animals where they have a particularly strong role in the management. Therefore, this is an important theme, and therefore more than half of the county councils in Norway are involved in different plans. So it's the government that decides these questions, and I'm the Environment Minister and political leader who manages it. I had my first meeting about this with the county councils a few days after I became the state council, before it had finally come to my department, to get into it. Then I've had more meetings with both county councils and others in the fall to review what we think should be changed. It was a follow-up meeting now, and then it says that the process and dialogue with the county councils, and we're still going to put emphasis on good dialogue to resolve the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e639	In the letter from the county council, it is claimed that there were only signs from the department that the dialogue had been abandoned and that they were going to correct the plan. So at least it's a little bit of a confession to go back to dialogue. I hope that's right. But is the Council of State really standing here claiming that Villereinden has no business in managing wild diseases? I think that's a pretty interesting claim, because no one has said that. I fully agree that the wild train is perhaps one of the most important Norway that countries are responsible for taking care of. That's the complete agreement. However, the Villrenemememed opinion is that Villlrenemedda believes that the proposed plan is in line with the Ministry of the Environment's order and that the plan is a good tool for ensuring the habitats of the wild reindeer in order to balance this with other important societal interests. Then again, I would like to ask the Council of State: does he think that Villereinden is completely on a siding to care for what they are set to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e644	I didn't make that claim. It was the representative Gundersen himself who came with him now. On the contrary, I attach great importance to Villereindenda's assessments, and I think it is an important body for the management of this which we are considering here. But I also take into account – and that is why it is important to discuss the matter – that two counties have filed contradictions, some of which are quite strong contradictions, along with what we have seen in the other planning work that goes around, and we presented it to experts in the Directorate of Nature Management, who also had significant contradictions with the plan. So in this landscape – and with regard to the other important concerns that need to be addressed, the development of the communities around Rondane – we're going to try to find a solution. We will look for that solution in dialogue with the municipalities concerned. They have to own the plan. But it is also important that he pursues professional goals for the purposes he is going to pursue. I will give priority to working on the matter in the future, because it is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e673	These questions have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e680	This question, from the representative of Svein Harberg to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Environmental Protection on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e683	It was tempting to follow up the previous question with some personal experience from how such matters are handled, but I will stick to the agenda. So the question is to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘Acquiring enough qualified teachers for school education is one of the main challenges facing the Minister of Knowledge. There's still a lot of under-coverage, and many who start their education are falling off. The applicant figures show that students choose the master's offer and education to teach the oldest students, not according to the priorities set by the government. How will the Council of State now ensure that students in Norwegian school receive qualified teachers, the main resource for mastering and good results?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e692	The Minister of Knowledge agrees that there are features in the search warrants for teacher training for the smallest children who are of concern. For elementary school teacher training in steps one to seven, the search since its inception in 2009 has been at the lower edge of 2100 first-choice applicants per year. However, from 2008 to 2012, the number of qualified first-choice applicants is increasing to 57 pst overall. The total increase in higher education was only 34 pst. The search for five-year integrated teacher training increases most of the teacher training in the country. From 2012 to 2013, she increased by approx. 15 pst. There is a clear sign that the attitudes of the teacher profession have changed positively during the period of the GNIST campaign. The government has increased the number of student places in teacher education by about 6,100, and they are stepped up to 6,700 in 2017. The general school dropout in 2008 is below the average for Bachelor’s programmes in Norway. In the follow-up group’s questionnaire among GLU students who have completed their education, only 21 psts are given. raise educational backgrounds as a reason for non-response. That is what the Minister of Knowledge would particularly like to address. At the same time, it's a positive move. The SSB’s prediction of learning needs from 2012 is far more optimistic than the previous one from 2008. The deficit in 2020 is now set at 4,200 teaching years in the school – a total of 60 pst. lower than four years ago. The government is working on many fronts to reduce the number further. Overall, there was also a positive exchange ratio of 900 people between school and other sectors from 2009 to 2010. There were also more people who came from other professional groups to the profession of teacher than those who left school for a professional life. In addition, a new SSB report shows that more and more 61-year-olds and 62-year-olds working in school are still there. The collection points it in the right direction. In order for this trend to continue, we need largeing, county councils and municipalities together with national educational authorities to take responsibility for speaking up the school. School owners need to ensure that the school becomes an even more attractive workplace. More cooperation on recruitment between teacher training and working life is also necessary. The Minister of Knowledge will continue cooperation on recruitment with the GNIST partners and will follow the elementary school teacher training closely in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e701	I thank you for the answer, and it's always difficult with follow-up questions when it's not the Council of State that's present. But now the Minister for the Environment also has a good idea of knowledge and how to deal with it. This was a great exercise in comparing the right numbers to make good increases. The reality is that there are 9 000 unqualified teachers in school today. The government has put in 600 additional posts for which there are no qualified teachers. They want greater teacher density, and seven out of ten teachers themselves say that they need continuing education to do a good job at school. The number of what we need, it goes up and it goes down, but it's a big need. I can't see – with the great decline we have and in fact a real decline in applications for elementary school teacher education last year – that the government has managed to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e708	I agree that there were many numbers here. I'm sure that might be difficult. But the main picture being drawn is that when you see developments over a few years, which is a safer comparison, there is, first of all, a sharp increase in the search for teacher training — not least for the new elementary school teacher — and far above the general growth in the search. Second, there's now a positive byte ratio in the last year, from which I referenced numbers, between school and society outside. So it's no longer a flight from school, but a return. So thirdly, there are more people who are in the profession a little bit longer. In summary, the fact that the very deficiency you saw a few years ago has been greatly reduced by the last numbers. So there's no doubt that the government's policy has been effective, but it's obviously alarming that we've had a decline last year. That's why the government will have full pressure on it further and make sure that the good development continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e713	Demands have changed. If it's the government that can take credit for the fact that the SSB has changed it, I think maybe a little bit doubtful. But I want to go back to it by getting more people to be teachers. The right and several opposition parties have proposed several times to introduce better career paths in school to increase recruitment, to keep teachers and to get more back. In the Question Time last Wednesday, the Minister of Knowledge said, ‘It’s totally misunderstood if you think you can only learn from the teacher recruitment needs we’re going to have by 2020. We also need to ensure that many of the teachers who are currently in other professions come back to school.’ What concrete action has SV, after nearly eight years in the Ministry of Knowledge, taken to get teachers back to school – in addition to those who now choose it because there is a safe and good job in a difficult work situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e718	It's not like there's a new person in the SSB who has calculated it, that the estimate changes. It's because more people are looking for education and more people are going back to school. The situation has changed, and policy is to blame. But I also want to add that there are many things that have happened lately: the rise in the results of the GNIST campaign has given a much more positive picture of the school. I think it is therefore more attractive. That's what I thought, in order to be completely honest, the Right should also rejoice. Then we have introduced measures such as the Lektor 2 scheme, mentoring scheme and greater possibility of continuing education in school, which I think are prejudicial to withdrawing more people again. But I agree with the representative that in the years to come, it will certainly be important to look at how we can make the school a more exciting job for others who have the competence to bring in and who are today places other than in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e729	This question, from the representative Elisabeth Aspaker to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Environmental Protection on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e732	Soljell is such a super reserve today. I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘NIFU has recently presented a report demonstrating that teachers’ students are constantly under-digital training. Seven years after the knowledge promise, teachers’ training has not yet adapted their courses to the qualifications required by the new curricula. What will the Council of State do to ensure that teacher training is up-to-date with the requirements of newly-trained teachers for the training of students in digital skills, one of the five basic skills?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e741	Teacher training is required by regulation to prepare students for training in digital skills. It is therefore serious that that work has not come anymore. The Minister of Knowledge takes the report very seriously, and a follow-up to teacher training is now being carried out. Digital skills, as the representative says, are one of five basic skills. At the same time, it is important to stress that some teacher training works well to strengthen the digital perspective of education. It must be stressed that ensuring the digital skills of students is a responsibility for the leadership of our universities and universities. ICT centres are government resources in the field of ICT. The ministry has had a meeting with the centre where they signaled that they are ready to intensify their work on it. Of course, it requires close cooperation with teachers. ICT centres in education report smoking for five years. to reinforce the emphasis on digital skills in teacher training. ProTed is the country’s newly created centre of excellence from teacher training. ProTed consists of the teacher training courses at the University of Oslo and the University of Tromsø. ProTed already cooperates with the ICT Centre in education. On Friday 24 May, the ILS, the Institute for Teacher Education and School Research, conducted its first digital exam for its PPU students. Here, ICT centres have also been inside the image. The Ministry of Knowledge is also aware that ICT centres in education are in contact with one of the country’s largest primary school teachers to develop the field of further education. The spread effect of successful projects will provide a good model of how to organise teacher training in general. The Minister of Knowledge considers giving the country’s seven teacher education regions a special mission to give digital competence a boost. Today's situation is unacceptable and will require close follow-up. The Minister of Knowledge is concerned that the work on digital competence must be strengthened more strongly in individual teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e756	There is no doubt that ICT is an important field of activity in Norway, and it is important to make the most of the sectors of society work, in particular. In school, it is about equipping teachers to both renew their educational practices and meet the learning objectives contained in many teacher plans related to ICT. Teacher training is the key to success. The research report that has come is relatively shocking. If we think that it was six years since the reform came into force, but in fact almost nine years since the Stortinget made its decision, it should be assumed that Norwegian teacher training could both read, hear and capture political signals and thus change education, so that they train future teachers and not yesterday's teachers. When the Council of State says that it is important to consider giving a special assignment to teacher training, I would like to challenge the Council of State not only to consider giving, but also to give a special assignment to teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e763	I believe the representative Aspaker should note that the cover ‘the situation of the day is unacceptable’ was used in the reply. It gives a very clear expression that it is taken seriously and must be done with. It was in its time a forward-looking grip, when one included digital skills in the basic skills. It came into force, that's right, but there's no doubt that there was a major innovation, a major change and a greater challenge to permeate the sculpture than perhaps much of the other that was in the reform. So this answer shows that quite a lot has been done, we've created a dedicated competence center for it. They have already started to work on this — on behalf of the government — with teacher training. However, as the answer emerges, there is a need to assess whether to give a special job and, not least, further work towards teacher training in order to ensure that they are able to draw it heavily enough into the training. It's very important at the time we go into it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e768	I think it is very good that the Centre for ICT in education has been given this assignment. It is – I think – very important that the department also uses its authority to get teacher training to understand that they – I was saying – have neglected since 2004 and since the Stortinget made its decision. What is happening in Sweden is often seen, and in Sweden a modular system has actually been created that takes teachers through the digital skills enhancement that is needed, which can be used both for the newly educated teachers who are on their way into the sector and for the many teachers who are already in school. Although teacher training is primarily about the teachers we have not yet received in school, we have many teachers out there who need to improve their skills in this area. Do the Council of State think we might have something to learn from Sweden in this area, where a programme called ‘practical IT and media competence’ has actually been created to increase the competence of teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e777	We certainly have something to learn from Sweden in both this and different areas. I take it back with me to the Minister of Knowledge, whether it might also be an interesting grip to consider. But first of all, I would like to stress that this is an answer that shows that the situation is drawing seriously, that the description of where we stand is serious, that in its time we created a resource centre – it was actually me who did it – for ICT in education that was a heavy competence environment working on these issues, and that the Minister of Knowledge also considers giving the seven teacher education regions a special mission to give digital competence a boost.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e788	Then I'm recording that this is the last question in the ordinary questionnaire in this session, so a little bit of history, although there might not be so many trombones around us. The question is addressed to the Minister for Transport: ‘The question concerns KVU clearance for the E39 axis Moa–Bergs Island. After KS1, the KVU has been under treatment in the Ministry of Transport since last autumn. Governments have stated in the media that clarification would come in the spring. There is full consistency between KVU, KS1 and local/regional policy decisions regarding the fjord crossing, Møreaksen. This should therefore be a simple matter for the ministry. To get on with the planning of the project, we need a KVU clarification from here. When will we get a clarification on this KVU?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e799	The government has the ambition to bind the West together through an upgraded and ferry-free E39, as we have also stated in the national transport plan submitted to the Stortinget. For the route E39 Schei–Valsøya, three independent KVUs, concept selection investigations, have been carried out, which have addressed the challenges of crossing the fjords north of Sognefjorden. In addition to Moa–Bergsøya, KVU for Skei–Ålesund has been created for Moa and Bergsøya–Valsøya. An external quality assurance, KS1, of all three KVUs has been implemented. The choice of concept for the further development of E39 on the different routes raises some difficult issues. Like large parts of the coast, the topography in these areas is also characterized by deep fjords and mountain ridges. The solutions to the fjord crossings pose slightly different technological challenges, and they also offer a slightly different approach to cost issues. In addition, the determination of the route for E39 will have significant regional consequences. The question from the representative Dahl concerns the specific route Moa-Bergsøya. It is important to ensure that this route must be seen in conjunction with the Ministry of Transport's treatment of the other KVUs between Skei and Valsøya. In view of the scale and complexity of the cases, the Ministry will need some time to assess matters in the future, but the Ministry will be able to ensure that it is working towards an early clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e808	There was not much clarification. I understand that it is being worked in the department – that is something we have to sincerely hope for. But I can't believe that after the regional authorities and all the hearing bodies have expressed their opinion on this matter, it would not be possible to cut through and at least get a clarification, so that we can get on with this project. The government has an ambition to connect the Kristiansand-Trondheim route in 20 years. Then we can't let the possibilities go away when it comes to moving forward in planning now, if this is going to be more than just a vision. It's part of the more complicated distance, we recognize it. We know, among other things. Nordfjord as a complicated and somewhat difficult area for the government. But just in the case of the Moorax, it should be possible to move on, and it should be possible for the Council of State to cut through. Spring is over, we're in the summer, and it's important that we get a clarification now. When can we expect a clarification?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e821	As I said in my first answer, the department still needs some time for the assessments to be made, but we aim for a quick clarification. I also think it is important to stress that this will not have any impact on the progress of the E39 project as such. It is clear that the E39 project will now be dealt with in Stortinget in connection with the national transport plan. There has already been a clear signal for the first major project in E39, Rogfast. For the other projects, funds will be made available for further planning, whether one decides these KVUs today or whether one does so in a month or two. The progress of the ferry-free E39 is constant. In the next roll-out of the national transport plan, one may, on the basis of planning, also decide on additional projects. I want to underline it in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e830	Quality assurance, KS1, has been calculated to have a net social benefit for the Møre axis of 2.6 billion. kr. In addition, both Victor Norman and Torger Reve have made assessments in the housing and labour markets, and in terms of value added for business development, on orders from the State Road Administration, and they see that there is a potential added value in society between 700 and 800 million. kr annually – actually in excess of 800 million. kr. Does Norwegian society really have such good advice that you don't put all the cloths on to get a clarification now, so that you get on with this project? And is it such that you think you can plan all of these sections together – regardless of being able to split up the projects, and give the opportunity, at least where it should be possible, for the department to come up with a clarification?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e837	First, I want to say that I agree with Dahl when he draws this forward with a positive net benefit associated with part of these projects. It is important to note that some projects that may be located outside the more central Eastern region have a great positive net benefit and are very important for Norwegian business. There is no link with the treatment of individual KVUs in the department, which will delay the progress in the planning and implementation of E39 and the ferry-free E39. As I said in my previous answer: there will be funds made available for further planning of the E39, also to these lines that we are now talking about, which will enable one at the next roll of the NTP to take a stand on concrete projects. It is entirely in line with what the government has said in the NTP that is now being treated in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e844	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e860	For the first time in history, half the world's population lives in town. In Norway we passed 50 pst. before 1960. Today, almost eight out of ten northern men live in urban areas. Urban growth may represent the greatest global change, and the greatest change in Norwegian society in our time. Norwegian cities are growing strongly, not only in terms of population, but in terms of area. Since 2002, urban and urban areas in Norway have increased by 210 km2. This is equivalent to the total area occupied by Oslo and Trondheim. Urban sprawl is a global challenge with many aspects: Greater distances increase transport needs, which in turn lead to increased climate emissions, more noise and air pollution. It is also about time use and quality of life, that spending many of the hours of life in car queues and congestion, directly and indirectly, is a source of frustration. Urban sprawl involves the degradation of land that could have been used for other purposes. On many of the best food soils today we have villas and terraced houses. Every year, food soils disappear to the equivalent of 2,000 football courses, and the fight for land will be harder in the years to come. It's also about health. Large distances also reduce the possibility of walking and cycling to a daily basis. Urban sprawl is also about housing quality, good urban environments and belonging. When we build the city so that people sleep somewhere and work somewhere else, we get "sleep cities" where no one is home by day, and urban centres that are popular – and often experienced as unsafe – in the evening. American research shows that urban sprawl reduces people's tendency to participate in voluntary work. An important clarification: it's urban sprawl, not that people live in town, which is the problem. On the contrary, in concentrated cities people actually have the opportunity to live more climate friendly than in suburbs. We can use Oslo and neighbouring municipalities as an example: one in five households in Oslo has two cars, against two households in neighbouring municipalities, and 70 pst. by residents of neighbouring municipalities use a car daily, against 41 pst. in Oslo. In 2006, the European Environment Agency, the EEA, issued the Urban Dissemination — Europe’s forgotten challenge. They state that urban sprawl has significant environmental, social and economic consequences, while pointing out that better development is possible. Munich is used as an example. The city has increased population density within the construction zone in the last 50 years. It's about: a coordinated urban development plan for regional cooperation re-use of land continuously improving public transport to keep the city compact and green areas green. Another example is the town of Curitiba south of Brazil, which has 1.75 million inhabitants. It's named one of the world's most sustainable cities. Curitiba has a solid public network and living high-rise areas with a mix of dwellings, commercial activities, shops and outdoors. Vancouver in Canada, which is considered one of the world's best cities to live in, also has a lot of high-rise buildings. The view of the sea and mountains is preserved, and the city has many green lungs. It is planned for shops and restaurants on the first and second floors, and enterprises and dwellings above. It gives a living and good urban community. We also have good examples in Norway. I would like to mention one: 20 000 jobs are now being built in Bjørvika, at Oslo S, Norway's largest collective hub. It is estimated that the car percentage in working trips to and from Bjørvika will be around 10 pst. If these jobs were located in Akershus, the car share on work trips would probably be around 70 pst. 20 000 jobs, therefore, provide 4,000 journeys – compared with 28 000. The opposite of urban sprawl is dense. Last year, City Plan Manager Ellen de Vibe documented that there is room for 130 000 new dwellings in Oslo within today's construction zone, without touching the land border and with all green areas remaining. So even in our densest city, there's no land crisis. The potential is too dense in so-called grey areas, which lie brackish, which are asphalted, e.g. It is not possible to build densely without building higher. It's about increasing from four to five stories, not building skyscrapers. A good mix of dwellings, shops and restaurants in the same area provides land and energy efficiency and reduced transport needs. That high-rises do not provide poor housing quality, Marienlyst is a good example of. Oslo's densest populated area is also one of the most attractive, with some of the city's highest housing prices. Housing and transport must be planned collectively. Over the course of 20 years, Oslo and Akershus may have 350,000 new residents. The forecasting centre believes that there is a need for almost 40000 dwellings each year, and that 90 pst. they must be built in the cities. Population growth will give 2 million more daily travels. Along the E6 and E18, which extend from Oslo westwards and northwards, there are residential areas, workplaces and shopping centres. Most of it's car-based. Every morning, thousands of people get in the car to drive from one place to another, on the same road and in the same direction. In the afternoon they do the same, but the opposite way. Should all the traffic that is currently going from Asker to Oslo, when driving, there would have been a need for a 16-field motorway, according to the State Road Administration. And what would happen if we got such a highway? Several would probably settle along the good road, and the need for new motorway fields would arise. It goes without saying that it's not a dangerous road – literally. Public transport is important, as is the prioritisation of routes and bicycles. From 2005 to 2010, it was built 5.6 kilometres by bicycle in Oslo. Abdullah Alsabehg, who represents the Labour Party in Oslo City Council, has stated that Oslo, at such a rate, does not get continuous cycling road network for 20 years. That expansion is slow is one thing. Worse than that, it disappears cycle paths. In 2011, three bicycle paths disappeared in the capital. According to Cyclistenes Landsforening, Lillestrøm is Norway’s best bicycle town. The mountains and Oslo, where the potential is greatest, come out badly. It's a cross of thought. Since 1980, the number of men with obesity has quadrupled. In order to improve public health, we also have to choose the car and use the body. Building a city so that people can cycle and walk is also about people being able to live longer and live life with a high quality of life. According to the Transport Economics Institute, the length of our purchasing trips increased by 40 pst. from 1985 to 2009. The share that drove the car increased from 45 pst. to 55 pst. Some of the reasons are the increase in the number of centres of purchase. Some malls have a car share of more than 95 p.p., while the car share is down to 20 p.p. when people shop at shopping malls in the cities. Getting the trade back to the center is also important. The authority to regulate the area is located in each municipality, but decisions taken in one municipality have consequences for all neighbouring municipalities. In several Norwegian urban regions, land and transport planning is well coordinated, but there needs to be greater and more commitment. Can we ensure sustainable urban development with the current organisation of metropolitan regions? I'm not sure. I'm not going to travel this interpellation because I think the council doesn't understand the problem. On the contrary: today’s Environment Minister has really put urban policy on the political agenda, set up a council for urban policy, launched ten bids for a better city and visited cities in our neighbouring country to learn about urban development. I am very pleased about this initiative, because we need urban policy in Norway – not in competition with district policy, but as an independent political area. We know a lot about how cities should grow, but they don't grow like this. One explanation is that although there is agreement on sustainable urban development, there is resistance to many of the measures needed to achieve the objective. Let me do some examples. Building closer and higher is a goal that most people agree to – on paper. However, a majority in Oslo City Council is now inculcating the requirements for the exploitation of land in the so-called small-hub plan. In today's Business Today, Right Urban Development Agency Bård Folke Fredriksen defends this. Cities and towns need to be developed so that people can live, work and trade in the same place. At the top you can say that people don't want to live near where they work, but they want to work near where they live. ‘Not in my backyard’, NIMBY, resistance to getting industry, a hospital or another large workplace as a neighbour, is known to all those working in urban development. Urban growth is taking place across municipal and county boundaries, but giving up the right to manage the use of its own land is a foreign idea for most municipal politicians. What action must we take to make our urban areas grow in a sustainable way? What can the State do to ensure the sustainable development of cities? I am curious about the state council's visit to Malmö, Copenhagen and Hamburg. What can we learn? The choices we make today have consequences for how people live in 50 and 100 years. Cities need to be developed differently — and urgently.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e948	I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the representative Haugli for addressing this issue, which is important. He may have been the leading housing politician on the Storting for the last four years, at least he's one of those who's marked himself heavy like that, and he's now leaving the Storing. We need many more with the same commitment in the years to come. That's because maybe the biggest social change we're going to go through in Norway by 2030 is the combination of population growth and urbanization that the interpellant describes. I'm getting up with the child's lesson that we're four million people. Now we've passed five million, and in 2030 we're probably six million people in Norway. As much as three-quarters of that growth thinks one will come in four major urban regions of Norway. So it's a combination of growth and urbanization. At the same time — while becoming more people with more activity — CO2 emissions and local environmental problems have to be reduced. If we don't handle it, we'll get large, increase local emissions from car traffic, more queues and chaos and increase CO2 emissions because of it. So it's a formidable challenge we're facing. Maybe the most important thing is that we have to change how we use our space. I think when it's about Norway and history about ourselves, we've been used to thinking that we're a few countries that haven't always had that much money, but at least we've always had a lot of space. But today we're a country that has at least salt in the grass, but we have to be more critical of how we use our space, our areas. A little about what we do: housing policy requires a much higher rate of housing construction than today. The government submitted a accommodation message a few months ago. There we make even clearer demands that municipalities and regions have to have plans to ensure increased housing construction. We warn a continuation of what we have seen: going through legislation, counterinstitution, etc. to make it easier for us to get approved plans and to have speedy planning, and we warn in different ways of strengthening social housing policy, which is absolutely necessary. But we do not come from housing policy, perhaps more than most fields, being a local responsibility in Norway. It is the city councils and regions themselves that must be in the lease and have the primary responsibility. When we go into the statistics, we see that some cities – including big cities with large growth – are doing quite well, Sandnes and Stavanger, for example. But it's a massive aftermath, especially in Oslo and in some other areas in the Austland. The particular challenge we have with a giant trail in Oslo needs to be taken much more seriously by the government here in the city – with more systematic planning, by following up, by taking hold when it is not built on plots. That's necessary, I think, so that we can be close to offering people housing, and not least to avoid the violent price pressure that we've experienced in recent years. That is the transport policy. We presented a national transport plan not long ago, where there is an enormously strong commitment to culture – a historic highlight for culture – in the years to come. This is necessary in response to population growth. However, it was also important that the growth of collective transport modes was much stronger than growth in relation to the existing plan. Rail growth in existing transport plans was much higher than road growth. The growth in the case of bicycles was over 100 pst., approx. 115 pst, and we put in place a system of urban environmental agreements. When it comes to railway, it's the intercity that's the big project here in the region, which will be very important transport and real policy. Along with what is happening from local authorities, the cycling effort will provide a potential to strengthen the development of bicycle roads, which is definitely necessary if one compares, for example. Oslo with Copenhagen. The new urban environment agreements agreed in the climate agreement open up to government spending 26 billion. kr on local public transport. Today it is the county's responsibility. It's going to continue to be. The state will contribute in other ways, but at the same time with clearer requirements that are allowed in the climate agreement on what one agreed to achieve in an agreement. So hang housing and transportation closely together, as the representative Haugli said. A former road manager has said that all transport policy's mother is land policy. What we often discuss is whether or not to be transported by car, bus or rail from A to B, but the real decision was then a located A and B – the hospital, the mall, the business area and the housing area. That's why it's central to how this is related. This means that when we plan new housing areas, new business areas or new purchasing centers, we need a strict policy. We make strict demands that housing areas have a collective coverage, and we are willing to follow it up. We have strict central purchasing regulations that local authorities have to follow up on. There are too many exceptions and too little so that we follow it strictly. But it's not just that housing means transportation, it's also the opposite. We now see in Bergen that the extension of the city railway leads to a strong expansion around the stop cities, not least residential construction. The same thing we have to look at more than now when we build the Kolsåssbanen, when we build the intercity for trains here in the area. We just have to structure it. So the government is now doing a lot of work and considering different approaches in land policy. Firstly, we have supported other metropolitan regions with money to have closer planning cooperation, as was the case with Oslo and Akershus a few years ago. We are now considering the question of creating minimum levels of development around collective nodes to ensure dense growth there, and of course we are looking at how to ensure a good follow-up of the purchasing centre policy, in line with decisions such as debt there. And finally, I'm going to say that there's also a quality dimension that we don't have to forget here. When many more people are going to live in town, I'll also be asking for qualities around it. Let me take some examples. The best quarters – and this applies to the urban development I saw in cities like Copenhagen and Hamburg – are the first impression that they have a functional lack of housing, nutrition, restaurants and services. We often discuss the concept of dense, whether we should build densely. My perception is that building densely, in reality, means for those who are going to live there, to build close, that one has closeness to school, kindergarten, service provision, restaurants and what one wants. Therefore, it is often popular to book in the tighter quarters of urban areas when they are well developed. We have to make sure that there is a lack of development. Then we have to make sure enough space, that the green areas and the parks are actually there, even though we're building with a high population density. We have to ensure a unique Norwegian quality, that we keep the mark limit. All the largest cities in Norway have managed to get political pluralities for expansion limits. It's a huge asset that you can live in the middle of a city in Norway and still be quite close to a large natural and recreational area. We also need to look at a social shortage. I have to say that one of the things that made the biggest impression on me in cities like Hamburg, Malmø and Copenhagen was that in all those cities they seemed to have had an even greater focus on a social housing policy than one has had in major cities in Norway. For example, in Hamburg they were to develop a large area called HafenCity, an old industrial area. There they made clear demands that a third of the housing should be what they called 'fordable', i.e. that ordinary people with a little low wages should be able to afford them. They did so by price regulation on rental, but also by sale. They claimed that a gain could not be earned on a forward sale – also 50 years in advance. Clearly, for Oslo and other major cities, social exclusion will also be an important part of urban policy. I thank you again for the interpolation. I think this is one of the important questions in our time. It is certain that we will debate this in the future – and we will need to do it even more. Not least in the past six months has shown that when it comes to housing policy, transport policy and the broader planning that we have, the government takes this seriously, and we want to develop and pursue a strong urban policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e984	I would first like to thank the Council of State for both good words and a very good answer. I fully agree with the assessments he makes, and I think he is quite right that it is about thinking differently. When UN-Habitat, the head of the UN's urbanization, was in Oslo, he said something wise about learning from the Middle Ages. In the Middle Ages, there were dense cities, often with a city wall around, and a village around, where food was produced. Of course, this type of community is impossible to reconstruct, but we are faced with a choice of whether to develop the city after what we can call a kind of chewing gum principle, where we are extending the trajectory with the pressures it brings, or whether to look at a medieval structure or possibly a beehive structure, where we have independent communities where daytime commuting takes place within each cell, or possibly across different cells, so that the stress spreads. I also think the Council of State has good reflections on housing policy. I'm 100 pst. agree that more systematic planning is involved. It is a big cross of thought that Oslo has unused residential areas, corresponding perhaps to 3000 to 4000 dwellings, which are regulated for residential purposes. The company Infill has surveyed these dwellings and challenged the Municipality of Oslo to what they do to follow up the use of these plots. Many of them are used as a parking space, as a store or otherwise, while Oslo has a shrieking need for more dwellings. With regard to the state's contribution, I also think there are very good signals coming. I'm concerned that the state has at least two very important functions. One is on the regulatory side. Regrettably, it is necessary to set requirements for purchasing centre development. The second important contribution is infrastructure contribution. It's an interesting contrast the Council of States draws up between the Urban Railway in Bergen, where we see an overall way of thinking about housing and transportation, and what we saw, for example. along the Kolsåssbanen in Bærum, where the municipality refused to build dwellings with reference to existing strike characteristics, despite the fact that the state introduced many, many millions into that upgrade project. Finally, the quality dimension. I totally agree with that. I think we're facing a settlement, a paradigm shift if you want, which we have to take when it comes to the conflict between quality and density. Perhaps the word ‘density’ is also a problem — proximity is better. In any case, there is no conflict between building high-quality dwellings and building high-quality cities and building them closely and closely and with great diversity. We already see in Oslo that many families of children move into the center. I think we can learn a lot from Munich about keeping green areas green and keeping the city compact.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e997	I'm pretty much in agreement with that. I want to say that keeping compact residential areas and ensuring that they develop is important for environmental reasons, but also because we now see that the trend is drawing away from the fact that more people want to stay in the centre area where they live closely and have supplies close. This is definitely in line with what a lot of people now want. So it's important when we're building trades, putting pressure on the development of large residential areas that are combined and flexible and nourished, around the station nodes. And then I'll also add when it's about the quality dimension, and it's something that I'm now busy with, and where I see that there's a pressure: what we're building is maybe going to stand out this hundred year. If we turn around and look back at things we're not so happy with from some decades ago, that's what had low quality, and where we didn't take time and afford to keep up the quality that we're undoing. So we have to be careful about sacrificing quality. It is possible, as many cities show, to develop the necessary housing without weakening the quality requirements. I'm reasonably overconfident that it's going to be better in the future than to sit with a significant expansion that we can't use, or that has low quality and great challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e1004	The centralisation of growth in Norwegian cities and agglomerations is a challenge both for cities and districts. It is therefore a very important debate to which the representative Håkon Haugli invites with his interpellation. We have had and have a centralisation and urbanisation trend, which will also shape the future. Håkon Haugli said one must have a self-contained urban policy. I agree with that, but things are hanging together. I therefore believe that we must have both a national policy that can slow down the pressures on cities and stimulate urban settlements and development in District Norway, and at the same time try to steer the development of cities, so that we can get safe, environmentally friendly, health-promoting and pleasant urban communities – yes, a sustainable development of urban and urban communities. In order to relieve the pressures on cities, good communications are crucial in the surrounding area. It stimulates business to establish and exist without major disadvantages. This means that people can live and find work outside the cities, and that means that the labour market region is growing, and people can commute into cities when there is work. If this is to be environmentally friendly and sustainable, it must facilitate large, good collective transport, not least rail. Intercity development, including the Council of State, is an example of the necessary measures. But then we have to commit ourselves to building it completely by 2030. Planning with a view to completion in 2030, as currently stated in the proposal for NTP, is becoming too vague in my view. Interpellanten, Haugli, asks: What kind of grip does it take for Norwegian urban areas to grow in a resilient way? At least it is certain that we must dare to rule; a good development does not come of itself. Then we'd rather have someone complain about state and other public measures. We need efficient land use, environmentally friendly transport, better housing planning, awareness of each place public rights, measures to reduce greenhouse gases and ensure the quality of urban and outdoor areas – to name a few. It is an objective, which has also been within the inter-pellant and state councils, to develop more concentrated cities and agglomerations with regard to land use and transport. But at the same time, we need to secure areas with good possibilities for recreation and play. It's a challenge. But we see that many cities follow up with good planning and management. The new planning and building law makes it easier to do it. In the climate communication, the aim is to ensure that the growth of passenger transport in major cities is achieved through collective transport, bicycles and corridors. Through the Future cities project, several cities are assessing the pricing and parking limits as a tool, while at the same time developing collective provision and cycling road networks. I'm sure that many more people want to ride the short distances that many people have to work, school and other purposes, if life is not to be done as an effort. There is a need to facilitate bicycle roads in a much better way, and here is the offensive proposal in the national transport plan. But it also needs to be cleaned up and informed of traffic rules for sick people. There I have learned that there is a vortex of perceptions between drivers and soft road users. A well-developed collective service must be in place if one is to be able to understand the pricing and parking restrictions. Among other things, we do. See also: Our stimulation for the purchase and use of electric cars, with now favourable conditions, is an important and good measure that attracts international attention. Car journalists from many countries come here and re-write the electric car’s entry into Norwegian urban traffic. In the 13 largest cities, road traffic represents 60 pst. of greenhouse gas emissions and have been the largest source of local emissions and particulate matter. That is why we have put in place a range of tools to reduce car traffic and increase the collective dimension. The reward scheme, the use of tolls for collective development and operation are a good example. But it is also necessary to phase out other emission sources on older buildings, such as the cultural memory and history tellers they are in society. We also need to take care of that, even if one is to build more energy-efficiently. The so-called old towns around the world are an attraction in themselves. Finally, the rains and floods of the last few days remind us of climate change that requires new measures. Many towns are on the coast or watercourses. We have to plan for more green lungs, which take away water better than asphalt, larger sewage capacity, greater cultural memory protection, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e1027	It is a topical matter that the representative, Håkon Haugli, draws up in this interpellation debate. There is no doubt that we have and have had an urbanisation trend in recent years, where people are moving into cities. If this is going to continue, I don't think anyone knows for sure, but right now the trend is so that a move into the big cities. Whether it will continue over the next few years depends on a lot of factors. This interpellation is about two things. It is about housing policy, and it is about transport policy. When it comes to the first, housing policy, there's no doubt that we've had a galloping price development especially in the cities of housing. The Progress Party and I believe that much of this is because we have a government that solves most of the new challenges with new prohibitions, laws and detailed regulations. We have a huge regulatory bureaucracy today, which allows us to go five, six, seven years from one start with a regulation, to one that has more built-up plots. Of course, it does not give a good market. The market does not work as he should have done so that the supply would meet demand. We also have in terms of housing, a good deal of detail, which goes for example. on TEK 10, that in all dwellings, no matter how small they may be, there shall be room for a wheelchair. We also have energy efficiency, which one goes further in relation to the passive house level. In the case of wheelchairs in particular, this means that the smallest dwellings are not built at all, because they become difficult to adapt to wheelchairs. I register, after hearing the representative Håkon Haugli, that there is nothing to suggest that this retail regulator is over. One will create a so-called bee structure -- I don't quite know what a bee structure is, but at least I know that the Progress Party thinks that people should be allowed to decide who they should be. It's not supposed to be the state that controls each one of them, and in what way you're going to live. This must be up to the individual, and as elected politicians, it must be possible to make the most of it so that the individual can live in an environment where he or she wants to live, and not where the state wants it. The second interpellant is transport policy. Clearly, cities, including Oslo and Bergen, have had some problems and challenges with local pollution. Among other things, there will be: because there are a lot of diesel cars coming into the city core, so it has nothing to do with CO2, of course. There was some government a few years ago encouraging people to buy, because it would be so good. So now you've gone away from it. Here it is important – that Torstein Rudihagen was also involved – that one invests. Here must be an investment in road construction and collective provision. There is nothing that creates as much local pollution as queues when cars stand and stop in line for a long time. We have in this area, among other things. proposed to remove the tax liability of the employer’s paid monthly collective service card. What we think is a good carrot that will lead to more people traveling collectively, and that will automatically lead to more money coming into public transport. So there's a voluntary way that can help reduce the problem of queues and noise in cities. In addition, we have a very old car park in Norway, which purifies more than if he had been newer. There we have also proposed a lot of grips to renew the car park. Among other things, we must: increase the wreckage and get the entry fee down, preferably completely away. As a result, many people invest in new, environmentally friendly cars, and this will result in far, far less air pollution and urban noise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e1049	With the general and I'll say a little bit of overall precision that has shaped the previous posts, there's of course a lot you can just agree with. I noticed that both the Council of State and the interpellant had characteristics of each other, and one could feel committed to the union of mutual admiration. But I too think it is a pity that the representative Haugli has not regained confidence in his own party. In the case of the state councils, we plan to get compensation from the fall of the year. I think it's a very interesting debate the representative Haugli has taken up. But I would have wished for a perhaps greater aspect of professionalism and understanding of economic relations than what emerged in the Council of State's answers. All development is driven by a demand that must come from a market, from those who are asking for housing, and who should be able to demand the well-being of the dwelling, as we have been described in the housing announcement that we are currently dealing with in the Committee. Of course, it is easy to agree that good planning is better than poor planning, but there are some of the statements I may not think are so marked by professionalism, for example. the need for walking and cycling routes to be an important strategy to reduce or address the transport needs of a large city. The theory has shown that walking and cycling routes – more cycling and more often – largely move passengers from collective means of transport, precisely because they serve the shortest working trips. I am a very big fan of bike and walking routes – I don't know how many of the participants here who have biked to Stortinget today – but the main effort must be on the common, collective means of transport; bus, track and tram. Investments should also be made where population density is higher. That is why praising the blessings of the T-Bahn through peripheral areas of the eastern region is not good for social planning either. We should rather facilitate that there could be a more fine-masked T-Bahn network in Oslo. We need a new tunnel, and we also need a new NSB tunnel. I would also like to state that no mention was made of the possibility of connecting points – this being that good transport solutions, like train solutions, can go in Ski, Uppegard, but also the Westfold cities and Eastfold cities. A renewed Ringeriksbahn would have moved into the Henefoss area, as a real relief option for housing and business to the most central eastern region. I've been in politics for a long time, not least in Oslo City Council, and I've seen fashion trends come and go among the planners as well. In retrospect, we must see that from an environmental point of view and from the point of view of optimising transport work, so that the number of passenger kilometres to be covered is minimised, the location of the Gardermo has not been optimal. At that time, other trends were influenced, namely the fact that large government investment in underprivileged areas was just about to attract new activity. But still most of the air moves southwards, and most of the people who are going to travel by plane have to move north of Oslo, even though the market and passengers are south of Oslo. At the time of the adoption of the Gardermo, there was also no awareness of the CO2 problem. So we mislocated the airport, considering all the other, later insights we've got in this area. I also believe that we can add more urban qualities to Oslo and that we should build in the so-called grey areas. I also believe that we can operate with a greater degree of tilted regulatory purposes, where business needs and housing needs can be combined in the same regulatory plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e1071	First, I want to thank the interpellant for raising an important question. The main reason for the pressures on big cities is that cities have grown faster than other parts of the country. The most important long-term approach must continue to be to pursue offensive district and regional policies and to stimulate economic development in all parts of the country in order to relieve the pressure, especially in the Oslo area. The main challenge in Norwegian housing policy is that there is too little construction activity. Too few dwellings are built compared to demand – especially in and around the larger cities. A number of measures need to be taken. We have to build a lot higher, we have to seal a lot more, and I don't agree that everyone is going to build where they want to. Those who want to build the villa with garden must find themselves in being offered an empty space outside the city center. In short, the area of the urban nucleus needs to be exploited much more effectively. It's e.g. no reason to park parking spaces in the daytime or to build parking spaces on the ground level. Parking should take place below ground level. There is also nothing wrong with laying store grounds below ground level. The organisation and regulation of adequate living space is a responsibility that local authorities must take seriously. There must be comprehensive spatial planning, which looks at housing, industry and collective provision in the context. We cannot bet on the private car being the means of transport for commuting into and out of big cities in the years to come. Therefore, new residential areas need to be laid in such a way as to facilitate public transport. But the purpose of housing can't trump all other considerations. For example, we have to. take care of the food soil, and the preservation of the food soil must weigh much heavier. Clean water, fresh air and enough safe food are human primary needs. Everything else is secondary. This is child learning that we remember from the social classes at high school, where we learned about Maslow's needs pyramid. In Trondheim, we are in the midst of a debate where housing and food production are opposed. Unfortunately, the county has now recommended that 1,030 targets of food land be re-regulated into residential areas, contrary to the recommendations of its own County Agriculture Director. This is one of the best cultivated soils in the county. In my opinion, there is a clear error priority on the part of the State – contrary to signals from both the State and the Government. In addition, it is completely unnecessary to provide adequate housing in Trondheim. There are many alternative areas that are already regulated for residential purposes, but the builders are sitting on the fence waiting for a clear signal to be allowed to build on the most lightly developed site. Of course, there is a ground floor that is flat and finished. Clear signals must now be given that the degradation of food soils is not relevant in order to enable them to start construction in the already regulated areas. After over 800 targets of food land were lost by the redisposal of Torgård, it was precisely then the county of Gjønnes who took the initiative of inter-municipal cooperation with common spatial planning between Trondheim and the peripheral municipalities, the so-called IKAP cooperation, in order to avoid further degradation of food soils in Trondheim. There have been good processes, and the peripheral municipalities have done their part of the job. They have hundreds of plots that are completely regulated. It's just putting the spade in the ground, without going out on cultivated land. When Trondheim now chooses to ignore this completely, it is a torpedo of inter-communal cooperation and goes all the way across what they had previously agreed on. Both the government and the magnification have given a clear signal that soil protection should be strengthened. Among other things, we have adopted an agricultural and food notification, with a majority agreeing to increase food production by 20 pst. during the next twenty years. It requires more cultivated land, not less. I trust the Ministry of the Environment to put its foot down in this matter. The opposite would be a disaster, not just for Dream Teams. It would also give precedent for similar things in the future. If food soil doesn't get a stronger protection in the years to come, we have no chance of achieving the goal of 20 pst. increased food production over the next 20 years. Food soils are threatened by several teams, not just from housing. Infrastructure construction also puts pressure on the food soil. In terms of the construction of housing and commercial property, we should have a zero vision for the degradation of food land. There are alternatives here. In the case of infrastructure construction, in some cases there are no alternatives – the railway is now running. But here, too, we must reduce the level of degradation. Norway has a responsibility to feed its own population as much as possible. It is frightening that the level of self-sufficiency in Norway is falling. So soil protection must be weighted much heavier in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e1099	Thank you for a good debate on one of the major challenges of our time, both globally and in Norway. The representative Rudihagen is quite right in saying that rail transport is absolutely crucial, and I fully share his assessment regarding intercity. I just want to add that we have some local challenges in this area, including: in the case of Fornebu. I have to take the opportunity to encourage those who run in Akershu County and in the Municipality of Oslo to seize the opportunity that lies in the NTP to enter into an agreement with the state to realise the Fornebuban. The representative Hagesets interprets the concept of ‘bicube structure’ as an expression of regulatory instruments. I just want to say that it's not about it at all. It's about how the city looks, and it's of course to be governed by people's desire for where they want to live. I can also assure you that I am very concerned that we will simplify building regulations and regulations. But it's actually something quite different than making demands when it comes to, for example. development of purchasing centres. The state is not supposed to control where people live, but the state has to help people live well. What really matters in terms of transport is where people travel from time to time. The council said it very well: if you're going from A to B, you can travel more or less environmentally friendly, but when A and B are far apart, you actually have to travel. In this is some of the problem. Building so that people get short distances and can cycle and walk, has a lot of positive sides. I think there are some ideological differences here. Is the problem too many regulations, or is there a lack of overall planning? Does the market solve this alone, and does it improve cities and higher quality of living because supply and demand alone control urban development? I don't think so. Yes, the market is important, but long-term, comprehensive planning is also important. It shows all international experience. I mentioned Munich and Vancouver as examples, Hamburg and New York are other examples. None of them are typically plan-economic cities. I am pleased with what Mr Tetzschner says about regulatory purposes. I will stick to it and encourage him to take it with him in discussions with his party traps that run in Oslo City. It is intended to think more regulatory purposes within the same plan. To the representative, Mr Greni: I fully agree with the need for offensive regional and regional policies and am concerned that there is no conflict – on the contrary, we need both. The real threat to soil protection is not the cities and urban centres that represent, but the urban sprawl – that terraced houses and villas are being built on land. It's a formidable degradation of soil that's going on. It's one of the problems of urban sprawl. Finally, let me thank you for a very good debate. I am happy to follow similar debates in the next period – at a slightly greater distance – and I want to be happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e1118	Thank you for the debate. Let me first, point 1, say that my post does not have to be interpreted as a view that it is more correct that people live in cities than in the towns of Norway, or that there will only be growth and development in the big urban regions – on the contrary. The developments we have discussed a lot with Oslo and Akershus as a starting point will take place in quite a number of cities and medium-sized cities around Norway. I had e.g. happy to ask Liv Signe Navarsete a few months ago if she knew if it was Oslo or Sogndalsfjøra – i.e. the centre of Sogndal – that had had the strongest percentage of population growth in the last ten years. The answer is Sognsdalsfjøra. Bodø, Alta, Hamar and Fredrikstad – many places in Norway – experience the same. Because of the strong growth, quite a number of areas in Norway, which once experienced a decline in the population, will be able to stabilise it or even see an increase. So it's a positive development for large parts of Norway when it comes to this. Point 2, to the Progress Party: Now the representative went to Hagesett, but I just have to comment that it is very special to think that wheelchairs and energy efficiency are the main problem when it comes to building in Norway. At least there is an acute attack of «short-term illness», because what we can say about the future is that there will be more elderly people in Norway who will live home and who will probably need wheelchairs. The second is that we're going to have to use less energy in our construction. These are among the surest things we can say about the future. Don't take that into account right now. Point 3: I have to finish briefly about some professional things, which I'm very busy with. First, when it comes to housing: it's true that the demand is large, and because the supply is not large enough, it helps to go up the price. It's very unevenly distributed in Norway. Oslo lies massively after the other big cities in keeping up with it. We have several reports that show that there is great potential here. A report shows that there is probably an area within Oslo City that can give room to bus 200,000 people. The interpellant mentions that there may be as much as 3000 to 4000 dwellings that are already regulated and that are not built. Point 4: Is the main problem contradictory and processes? Well, Oslo has the lowest share of counterparts to its regulatory plans of all the states of Norway. When it comes to professional and transport: Urban Analysis has calculated that if we are to achieve the goal of taking all growth in passenger transport with public transport, bicycle use and walking, all cities in Norway must do more. Oslo needs to reduce its share of cars by 25 pst. In order to cope with this, more public transport, bicycle use and walking are needed. You're no longer going to Copenhagen to find a big city there 60 pst. the journeys are made by bicycle and corridors. It's a great potential, even in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e1134	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-05.ana.ud1529e1147	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
