ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e26	The representatives Mette Hanekamhaug, Lillian Hansen, Øyvind Waksdal, Ingrid Heggø and Anne Marit Bjørnfacen, who have been licensed, have again taken up the seat. Three permit applications are available: on the leave of the representative of Mr Morten Höglund on 13 and 14 March to attend meetings of the Committee of the Arctic Parliamentarians in Washington of the Workers' Party Group on sick leave of the representative Mr Ingarill Olsen on 13 March and until further notice of the Central Party Group on sick leave of the representative Mr Heidi Greni on 13 March and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: Those applications are proposed for immediate consideration and are accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Akershus County, Tone Liljeroth, currently has parental leave and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Morten Højlund. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Tom Staahle For Finnmark County: Willy Pedersen For the South-Trundellag County: Hallgeir Grotvedt
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e88	Tom Staahle, Willy Pedersen and Hallgeir Grotvedt are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e96	The representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e99	On behalf of Morten Stordalen, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and myself, I would like to suggest offering new cancer medicines in line with professional advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e104	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e107	On behalf of the representatives of Laila Marie Reiertsen, Vigdis Giltun and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to reintroduce special rules for day-to-day workers over 64 years of age and other amendments to Chapter 4 of the People's Rights Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e112	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e124	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum and Hadia Tajik will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Ib Thomsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e131	I have a question for the Minister of Culture, but first of all I would like to welcome the Minister of Culture to his first spontaneous Question Time. I want to add that I am pleased that she was appointed Minister, because she is a young, capable and exciting cultural politician. Today we see in a headline in Dagbladet that she is willing to find good solutions in view of the Munch challenges we have. In my untimely way, I will start my question with a limerick. It goes like this: A rather fresh state council corresponding to Jens shall issue an issue of a licence without delay. Does she consider taking money that sweet brother does, for tablet and such as had previously been tubed? President, I'll take this one! Evolution is moving forward. Technological progress is happening all the time – yes, it happens every day. It is therefore important to keep an eye on actors and authorities. Still new TV platforms have presented challenges in terms of licensing. In Sweden, we already see that you can require a license for computers and reading boards – the TV license for things completely different from TV, in other words. I would therefore like to ask whether the Council of State is thinking about such a licensing arrangement for reading boards and other technological platforms. Can the Council of State guarantee that the government will not propose similar solutions in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e152	I thank you for the question and the pleasant welcome – and not least a nice limerick. When it comes to the actual issue linked to the NRK licence and its design, it is true that one has discussed the changes that one sees in Sweden, and may also be relevant and transferable to Norwegian conditions. I for my part have not finally concluded. What I see is that among Norwegian households, it's 97 pst. which has a television apparatus for which they may consequently also pay a licence. I know that Finland and Germany have chosen different models from what Sweden has done. I mean, anyway, we have an independent NRK, which every person in Norway has a degree of ownership by paying a license. It's something that's very valuable to a public broadcaster like the NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e159	I have not been able to write the follow-up question on rhyme – and I was not completely reassured by the Council of State's answers. Now there's a choice for the harvest, and you don't know: maybe the sitting government will keep going? Of course, I hope it doesn't. Is the Council of State comfortable with and does she feel it is a good principle that you can demand payment for a service you do not receive?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e166	I think it's a good principle that very many people in Norway have ownership of the NRK, that one has it by paying a license. When it comes to the representative Thomsen's concern about clarifications before the election, I can assure him that it will be clarified in advance of the election. I have to admit that we have had the same discussions in Norway that one has had in Sweden when it comes to the licensing arrangements. At the same time, I'm glad of the statistics, which says that just 97 pst. Norwegian households have a television set for which they pay a licence. If any would make it possible to pay a licence for other platforms, it does not alter the fact that one only pays one license in one household. It will also be the starting point — and the conclusion will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e175	Two follow-up questions have been asked – first the representative Solvency Horne.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e178	The whole media everyday is changing. Today's youth uses TV in a completely different way than what we're a little bit older might do. It may well know the state council — as the youngest state council. Today, young people are studying the HDMI cable to watch movies. They surf and use the TV as a screen – more than just a TV. What is a challenge is that when the youth – the students – buys television, they have to pay a TV license that they do not know exactly why they have to pay. They may not look at the NRK, but they download on the web and use the TV, as I said, as a screen. My question is – as a follow-up of the representative Thomsen's question to the Council of State: does the Council of State not see that it is now time to get a modern way of financing the NRK and to change the funding of the NRK that we have today, so that it is more forward-looking?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e187	In Norway we have a simple and unbureaucratic system attached to the NRK licence. It's a fixed sum that's related to the sobering fact that one is the owner of a television set. The fact that one has such a simple model makes it so amazingly effective. So I agree with the representative Solvency Horne that it's important to be forward-looking and follow the change trends that you see. But that's like 97 pst. by all Norwegian households own a television set. Although there are changing trends in our society, which we should be aware of, and for which we obviously need to have a clear policy development, it is not that the situation is simply precarious, neither for the NRK nor for the NRK licence. But of course we have to take the discussion – we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e194	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e197	The licensing issue is about the financing of the NRC and the foreseeable framework. The right will also support the license, but I think we're going to assume that there is a system that will be put under pressure. In response to that pressure, I think we will also see that the revenues of the NRK could be similarly pressured, and then the question is how to get other revenues. One of the other sources of income is the products produced by the NRK. We have an authorisation system for new products that the NRK should be able to create. We had the first trialogue for this with the Traffic Portal, where both the Media Authority and the Competition Authority were opposed, but where the Department and the Council of State overrun these agencies and allowed the NRK to develop this. Does the Council of State believe that there is a suitable response to provide predictability in the system, be it for both the NRK and the private actors?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e203	I am a little uncertain whether the question relates to the pre-approval system. At least I can take it first: I think it is good that we have a pre-approval system. It's also about the fact that the NRK has a societal mission – which is wide enough, but one should obviously have a reflected relation to how wide it is. When it applies to the Traffic Portal, we made several assessments of him. The recordings we got from, among others. The media surveillance was linked to the fact that other actors have to be able to compete in the same area, and there is some reason why we have made route and traffic data available to absolutely all operators. It has given us the opportunity to create and implement the Traffic Portal by the NRK, and it gives other actors interested in it and curious about it the opportunity to address it. And from the NRK notice that they wanted to create a traffic portal, until they got the approval, it's been quite a long time – we just have to admit it – but in that time I haven't seen any other competing players take hold of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e208	We continue with the representative Olemic Thommess, but this time to the main questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e211	The Minister of Culture can only stand still, because there is a question for her. The main challenge in media policy today is the transition to a digital platform. Communicating editorial material online — online or otherwise — and getting paid for it is the main challenge. In this picture, we have unfortunately seen no action in media policy that can help make the transition easier – and media companies are struggling, there is no doubt about it. On the contrary, there are now clear signals from the government that they want to maintain the different VAT rates of today, i.e. zero VAT rates for paper and 25 pst. VAT on web-distributed editorial material. This is an act that directly counteracts the transition we need to make, in addition to the fact that there is a break of long traditions that is about not charging or taxing the free word in a democracy. The government answers that it is the production subsidy, that is, what we often call the press support, which should be – I would say – the compensatory tool in this. At any rate, I heard the Council of State talk about that yesterday, properly in screen transfer, at the annual meeting of the Norwegian Journalist team. The problem is that the current production grant scheme compensates or communicates very little with the objective of the VAT system. It is not the newspapers that are being supported by the press today, which are the leading engines in the conversion process we are now seeing. The large regional newspapers and, in particular, the small-town newspapers that are the only newspapers in their areas do not get one ear from today's press support system. If this is going to make any sense, we need to talk about a whole new arrangement. I would like to hear the views of the Council of State around that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e220	The press support system we have in Norway is a good and targeted system. Our government also increased it by 20 million. kr in the 2013 budget, because we believe it is important that one has a press support system that is open. Then the representative Olemic Thommessen links some comments to e-Moms. It has been a difficult discussion. I have had a lot of contact with media actors about this. There is no doubt that Norwegian media are facing a digital switching time that requires their conversion, but there are both technical and legal reasons why changing the VAT rate on digital publishing would be, to put it mildly, a very demanding exercise. We see that no other European country has taken similar action, and it also says something about the complexity of this matter, both technically and legally. Then I would say that it is obvious that our government and Olemic Thommessen's party have a different view of the press support system, because I have read the alternative budget of the representative Thommessen's party, and there is a very substantial cut in the press support system. I don't want to say wrong numbers, but I think I'm thinking that it was 100 million. I don't know, I don't know. And the Progress Party will cut about 180 million. kr. Should this become a reality, it means that about 50–70 Norwegian newspapers will have to shut down. It means a newspaper death corresponding to one third of the Norwegian media decline. What I mean is the wrong way to go. It is right to strengthen the press support system, and it is right to change it so that it also applies to digital publishing. We are in the process, and I believe that using the press support system also targeted the digital releases – a platform-neutral press support – is something that will provide better conditions for Norwegian media.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e229	I can't say anything but that I'm a little disappointed with the Council's response. I used to rely on not talking about VAT, because every time I talk about it, the government tends to send the Minister of Finance instead – that's why I'm going to be happy with him for an hour next week on that question. But so far I have reason to believe that this charge question has not been tried at all in the EU context. As far as the issue of press support is concerned, it is not at all designed to solve the problem of VAT on digital services. There's no connection between who gets press support today, and who needs it to compensate for the drop in VAT, which we almost get to call it, which will eventually build up. That's what's the big, leftover question from the government: you don't describe any arrangements that come instead, when you put an extra burden on the whole conversion process we're talking about. I think the Council of State should be able to answer that better.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e236	I almost have to refer to what I have said before, and as I also said in the first answer, that we are in the process of converting the press support, so that it becomes platform neutral and consequently also debt for digital publishing. It is clear that this will affect digital publishing. We are in the process, and I see – at the rate we intend to keep up – that this could apply to Norwegian media from 2014 onwards. In any case, it is our ambition, and given the experience we have gained with the press support system in Norway – that it is targeted, that it is effective – I believe that it is important for Norwegian media in a difficult digital conversion time. So I also see that there are exciting things happening in different newspapers where a person is trying to create models of willingness to pay for readers at a time when many readers have been used to access the news online for free, and I thought it was exciting to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e243	There will be four follow-up questions – first the representative Arve Kambe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e246	We see that half of the newspaper readers under the age of 30 no longer read newspapers. It's the reader group that rages the most, and everyone uses more modern platforms. Therefore, it is quite ironic for the Right to see that it is the country's youngest government council that uses the old-fashioned instruments at full VAT rate on the new products. The right is concerned with innovation and development in the media houses, and so the right has said that we want to equal VAT on e-papers and paper newspapers. So we're not going to get that. For our part, we do not see any cultural policy justification for having full VAT rates either on e-books – on which the government also has a poor cultural policy – or on e-news. What is the Minister of Culture's cultural policy's reason for imposing a full tax on the new products that are coming, which makes it so expensive for young people that fewer people want to read newspapers — including with the new Minister of Culture?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e251	Thank you for asking me this question and thank you for recognizing my age – that seems to me to happen very rarely. When it comes to the question of how we deal with VAT, I am actually a little surprised that a party like the Right, as I see it, is quite European-oriented, yet so little acknowledges that this is a very complex issue across Europe – absolutely all European countries – and that this is also the background in Norway for the situation in Norway to e-VAT as it is. It is not the privilege of the Council of State to ask questions to the representative, so I will not do that. However, it would have been interesting to right what general reflections the representative and the right are about the general VAT system in Norway, and why one thinks that it is right – completely unreflected – to lower the VAT rate on different types of platforms, when one has not made any reflections about what this would mean for the funds available to the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e260	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e263	I have to say I am surprised at the answer to the council here, because she does not answer the question at all. It seems that the Minister of Culture has not taken on board the reality we have out there – the future we have today – that we have new platforms. I will honestly admit that four years ago I hardly knew what a reading board was. As soon as evolution happens. Then it is important that we politicians too follow along. So the Minister of Culture has not attended the hour of the challenge facing the media industry today. She talks about press support, but several media houses clearly tell the family and cultural committee that the press support is not the most important. The most important thing is to bring in equal rates of VAT – equal to VAT for equal platforms. This is the Minister of Culture going to have to take over. This is a discussion going on across Europe, and it doesn't have to be complex, as the Council of State says here. The question is: what will the Minister of Culture do to the Minister of Finance to equalise VAT on equal content?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e273	I have answered this question several times. The e-VAT situation is the way he is. We want to strengthen the press support system. We have already done so in the 2013 budget. We want to convert it so that it is more focused on digital releases. Maybe it's just that I'm a digital native and not a digital immigrant – as the representative who asks this question is – that I don't start to waver and get insecure with a new digital everyday life, nor is it necessary to prove how digitally oriented I am, by throwing myself at one or the other proposal in this area. I am quite sure that even if the main reflection is that the e-VAT question is important, the Norwegian media industry would be very critical if the Progress Party were to get an impact on its proposal for significant cuts in the press support scheme in its alternative budget – again, I don't want to say wrong numbers, but I think to remember that it was 180 million. kr. It will lead to a massive newspaper death in Norway. One third of the papers will have to drop.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e282	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e285	The Christian People's Party sees press support as a very important cultural policy tool and wants to protect it. I'm glad that the Council of State does too. But as I see it today, she wants to use the press support to compensate for a charging policy that clearly distinguishes between digital communication and communication on paper. Today, press support is very important – I think both I and the Council of State agree – to maintain and ensure diversity in Norwegian media. However, if the press support is to be converted to compensate for a significant difference in charging, the question is: What will happen to the existing recipients of the press support, and to what extent will it be diluted – or does the government think of a strong escalation of the press support, which compensates for the huge tax difference?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e292	Our reforming the press support system is not to compensate for the VAT situation. The fact that we change the press support system is about recognising that we are living in a new era, and that it is natural that we update the press support system as we live in time. We would do that anyway. When it comes to the total amount that we want to spend on the press support, I would say, on a general basis, that the pressure support has been important. So we have strengthened her before. It is natural that we also do it in the future, but I can therefore foresee what this will mean for future budget proposals from my department. But I recognize that the press support is important, and that she continues to be strong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e299	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e302	I have to say that I am a little surprised at the passivity in this field. In this room, a great deal of courageous action has been taken to keep both Norwegian languages and to keep Norwegian social debate as active as it has been in this country over the last 150 years. We are the most newsreading people in Europe, and we are a people whose freedom of speech, dialogue and discussion are being raised. This is based on courageous decisions taken in this Chamber and on the fact that we must be extra brave, we who have a small language. Then it's strange that you're so passive when there's so much change in the media world – and you don't want to use the tools we have. As far as I know – based on the information I have received – 17 countries in Europe have different rates of VAT, precisely to stimulate this type of electronic communication from the media. Why are we so cowardly in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e309	I am busy keeping myself informed about the situation in Europe and what initiatives are being taken. One of the very few initiatives that are entirely relevant and comparable here is the Belgian initiative to look at the VAT rate for PDF publishing. I would like to say that I do not believe that future digital releases of the papers are on the PDF page, but there will probably be other types of devices that will be the platforms for the future. But I follow with interest the discussions here. At the same time, we must play with open cards. The open cards are that there are no plans to change the VAT regime for digital publishing in Norway. I think the press support system is a good and targeted system. I feel that the party of the representative Skei Grande also acknowledges it. That's why I'm concerned that a party with such a proud story will cooperate with two parties that will cut so significantly in the press that one risks a newspaper death of one third.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e320	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e323	The question goes back to the Minister of Culture. When Trygve Hegnar a few years ago wanted to publish a book, he likewise collected all his editorials in his newspapers between two perms and printed a large picture of himself on the front page under the title: «What was I saying?» After the Enger Committee's suspension, NO. 2013: 4, came last Monday, it could have been tempting to give out the entire investigation with the Christian People's Party logo on the front page and with the same title. The committee's assessments and recommendations on re-priorities in the government's cultural policy are so similar to the alternative government budget of the Christian People's Party that we can say that we are pleased that the government has proposed to tighten copyright law. The selection points to the fact that broad movements in Norwegian cultural life have had a very small part in the so-called cultural promise. Our second largest popular movement after the sport, the choir movement, has only got crumbs. The Norwegian Corps movement, with the school corps, is unique in the international context and plays a unique role in the education of Norwegian musicians – those who look at the «Korpsfissert» at the NRK a day, get an insight into it – but despite this one also struggles under the Cultural Promise. The libraries are another important public arena that has great unmet needs. Nor is it so strange that a sample that has studied the priorities for over a year has come to the same conclusion as the Christian People's Party, that it is a bit funny that you can come up with the idea of using 10 billion heads of state culture – and not even being able to use 2-3 pst. to teach kids how to play and dance in the cultural school. The question to the Council of State is: Since she has not yet been presented with her own government budget as Minister of Culture, will she now start work on following up the priorities of the Enger Committee – facilitating broad movements in the cultural budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e334	There must be relatively few departments – it must be allowed to say – who themselves invite to get thorough criticism. The Ministry of Culture has chosen to do this by asking Anne Enger and her selection to review cultural policy since 2005 and to give us an assessment of him. What's working well? What are we supposed to change? I'm very happy that the main image that the Enger selection paints is that we're either in the goal, near the goal, or on the way to the goal of the very most cultural level that has been given. It is good to carry on on the road. At the same time, they raise some critical questions – there is no doubt about it. In particular, they link the critical questions to the local cultural life, which they characterise as the ‘cultural base wall’. Here the Ministry of Culture has the following dilemmas: It is the municipalities that have the responsibility to carry out a number of the tasks that the representative has in place, such as the cultural spheres and libraries – the local cultural base wall. This government has strengthened the municipalities by 60 billion. kr since we took over. They have a legal responsibility to have a public library, but then a priority must be given within the framework of the municipality. I welcome the fact that a very clear priority should also be given to local cultural life. When it comes to the cross-section – I know that the representative has a special commitment to it, he has shown it before, and he also takes it up on the issue here now – we have strengthened the arrangements for choirs through Norwegian Cultural Councils, and we also look at conductor support schemes. Ensemble support, activity support, is also relevant for choirs in Norway. It is important for us that one has choirs all over the country, and that one can strengthen the choir all over the country. That's also why we've put particular emphasis on giving money to five selected choirs in different parts of the country that have that role. Now I'm going to travel all over the country with the Enger selection in the baggage and get recordings from all parts of Norwegian cultural life to shape the next big cultural promise in consultation with local cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e345	I thank you for the answer, and I am glad that the Council of State meets the recommendations with such openness and the criticism that emerges. It is true that municipalities have an important role in cultural policy, but there are grants for both cultural schools, corps and choirs in the state budget that can also be prioritised within the state framework. My question just recently goes, because, as I said, Norway has a very unique tradition in the school community in an international context. Just as we have in the choir field – Norway has a very unique choir movement. Nevertheless, we are doing almost nothing on conductor development – in the previous budget it was well 200,000 kroner, I think. Will the Council of State now lift conductor development so that the broad corps and corps movement is given a boost?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e353	It is correct that there was less than NOK 200 000 in the State budget for 2013 associated with conductor development. I acknowledge the commitment of the representative Hope in this field and take it with me when we are to design the Cultural Promise 3, so that there the representative Hope is also interested in the design of it. I agree that the corps meet some challenges, and therefore I'm glad that former cultural ministers have also prioritised the corps by providing instrument support, as there's no doubt that they have benefited the individual corps. It is also useful for all voluntary teams and organisations across the country and may have an impact on part of the representative of Hope in his post. I take with me the recordings and assessments he makes when it comes to how future cultural promises should be designed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e360	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Laila Davøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e363	The red-green government has not prioritised the cultural school. The Enger committee says the promises in Soria Moria are broken. There are still almost 30 000 queues, and the offer varies greatly from municipality to municipality. So the government chooses to introduce one hour of free cultural school at school. I think it's the wrong medicine, now it's creating even more uncertainty. My question is whether the government will follow up or, at least, seriously evaluate the proposal of the Enger Committee to transfer responsibility for the cultural school to the Ministry of Culture and finally make a lift for the cultural school and remove the waiting list. How does the Minister of Culture view this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e370	The Enger Committee has made a lot of interesting recommendations, and one of the recommendations is in general to strengthen the Ministry of Culture by transferring responsibility from other departments to our department. That's what I think is an exciting discussion, but there's nothing the Ministry of Culture decides on its own, so it's just an input we can bring with us. The Enger selection has attached some critical remarks to the cultural sphere. There have been several elephants on the cultural sphere since 2005, but there is no doubt that the cows have been any longer. On the other hand, what I want to highlight as a positive thing, which I feel is that the representative Davøy does not agree that is equally positive, is that by introducing a cultural school class of the 1st to the 4th stage – the possibility of having that hour, that is a voluntary scheme – we provide a very large number of children and young people who would otherwise not have it, the possibility of getting the kind of training that goes on the cultural sphere. This option does not shorten queues for the culture sphere, but it gives several children more possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e377	Ib Thomsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e380	The Progress Party and the Enger Committee have a lot in common, and I am pleased that the Council of State is now going to travel around the country and have conversations with the municipalities. What I think she hears on her education journey is where culture is created. Where are the good dancers created? Where are the good musicians created? Where are the artists living? Where's the best corps environment? Where do you have the best festivals? Where are the cows? Well, in the municipalities, not in the Cultural Council and not in the department. Many around the municipalities in Norway experience that Culture-Norway is controlled from Oslo. We had seen an opportunity to move money from the Culture Council, from Oslo, and out to the municipalities – please designate them as culture, so that local politicians and local politicians can give it their own priority. What will the Council of State do to allow municipalities to be more involved in cultural development in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e385	I will continue to say that it can pay to have both creation and education – I aim to have both. The representative Thomsen challenges me on what the journey around the country will bring with it consequences for the municipalities. I'm very happy to meet different parts of cultural life. Already tomorrow, I'm going to Vestfold – the first county I visit after the launch conference in Oslo last week. I really want to take with me the recordings that local cultural life gives me there. When it comes to the representative's specific question relating to earmarking, I would like to make the following general consideration about it: On a general basis, I think that one should be very careful about using that type of tool. Sometimes it may be quite right to do so, but using a tool too much, puts too many bindings on the municipalities, making it even harder for municipalities to give priority to what is most needed locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e394	Olemic Thommessen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e397	I noticed that the Council of Cultural States was so pleased with the arrangement that now exists for the cultural school, because there were several people who would get the offer of cultural schools. But what characterizes the system the government has put up with is that you just don't get the offer that the cultural schools give. The money allocated to the large number of children concerned gives a clean activity in the SFO, more class activity, while the cultural schools are characterised by quality where one-to-one education or one-to-one education is provided. So in this picture, they've been removed. Forty million. which was used as a means of development for the cultural schools. It was a means of strengthening quality and the distinctive character of cultural schools. Among other things, there were projects such as ‘The World on Tøen’, where children and young people from around the world met in a fantastically exciting orchestral project. That project is now being closed because these funds are disappearing. Has the Minister for Culture lost the quality of this offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e402	I'm very busy with maintaining quality, and I think it's too early to draw the kind of conclusions that the representative Thommen makes in terms of how the cultural sphere will turn out in the individual municipality. I am busy that this system helps more children and young people get the opportunity to try out a field that I know very many of them would not have tried. There are major social differences with regard to who is exploiting the cultural sphere. By having this cultural dimension, one allows more children and young people – one opens their heads and hearts, so to speak, for the possibility that they can also engage in cultural activities, to master a musical instrument. And this is also a value that would go wrong if you didn't bet on the cultural sculetik. But it's clear: I think the cultural spheres are important, and we'll continue to bet on them, but I also think it's a good arrangement to prioritize the cultural activity voice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e409	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e413	My question goes to the Minister of Agriculture. Unfortunately, in recent times and for a long time, we have seen that we have more animals and large animals in the country. We've seen that both in newspapers and on TV. We've recently seen cases where sheep have starved in their heels, and we have horse tragedy around the farms. What goes on in these matters is that you can see that the Food Safety Authority goes in and finds anomalies. So on a farm animals have died: the food agency goes in, only imposes them and writes deviation reports. You'll come back later and find out that it hasn't been much better. There is a lack of a comprehensive system of supervision, as the National Audit Office also says, so there is a difference in where animal trading is done on the basis of where you are in the country. You have the ability to put down an activity facility to bring this down, but you'll rarely do that. We in the Progress Party believe that we should hit hard on those who are not doing a good job of animal welfare, that they should lose the right to have animals, and then those who are good at animals should have those animals. That is what we believe to be an important policy. We have to do something to bring down animal abusers, so my question to the Council of State is: Is the Council satisfied with the work of the Food Authority here? And does the Council agree with the Advancement Party that due to the health of animals, activity should be imposed much more frequently than is the case today, so that animal welfare can be taken seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e422	The theme we're discussing now is very important, and fortunately, we have a food supervision that is present all over the country. They had, according to my numbers, approx. 17 000 oversight in 2012. What is one of the striking things about many animal welfare service providers is that it can go quite quickly from the fact that animal husbandry appears in good condition to a personal tragedy or other things that make it an animal tragedy. The supervisory activity of the Food Safety Authority is very active and frequent – with 17 000 supervision around Norway – but if we are to manage to prevent animal welfare sanctions, we are totally dependent on being good neighbors, good fellows, that those who drive a car to slaughter, those who see that someone who has a pet, does not give them good enough warning. The Food Safety Authority has arranged for notification and follow-up, because it is not possible to have an official control system that is so close that we can guarantee that no new animal welfare animals will be introduced. Some of the history has shown that animal welfare tragedy often has a connection with human tragedies – crime, economic ruin and that kind of thing – and then you lose sight of it, and then it starts to appear to be a proper to poor animal husbandry in just a short time. So in addition to having strong food surveillance, which has a lot of supervision around the country, we also depend on our common efforts. Or, as a former Prime Minister, it said: we must also rely on the neighboring crumb. And so it is in animal welfare matters. So we believe that we have a good food supervision that does a good job, and that the new Animal Welfare Act of 2010 also provided a good basis, but here we all have a common responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e431	I agree with the Council of State that we all have a responsibility and that it is important that we all follow along. And this happens in the industries: you get a warning for the Food Authority, and the Food Authority goes in. However, when the Food Authority goes in — for example: in the horse labor we had in the harvest that had been going on for over a year – then you go in and give a command, you see the deviations, and you keep on with the anomalies and the impositions, and this is broken and broken. So you can see that animal tragedy is actually going on for over a year, almost two years, before the Food Authority goes in and says that now it's going to be activity-related, now we have to stop this. One of the same things we also see in several other animal tragedy: the Food Agency has been inside, but you give the farmer an opportunity to move on, and you take him on break all the time, and it's going on for a long time, and you get animal tragedy to bloom because you don't hit. So my question to the Council of State is: what criteria do you think the Food Authority should improve, if you think they should improve, because as long as we have a lot of animal tragedy, something has to do better?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e440	The most important thing we did was put in place a new Animal Welfare Act in 2010, which also gave the Food Authority more tools, including: the activity facility on which the representative was involved. You can use that tool. It's impossible for me to go into the individual things, because there's a lot of individual things. Our starting point is that the legislation adopted by the Stortinget in 2010 is a good law that gives great powers to the Food Authority, but although they have these powers, they have the opportunity to enter, have the opportunity to follow up an animal husbandry very closely, and we also need to have an awareness in the entire industry – and in people who have dogs, cats, pets – on the holding of animals. So that's why some of what the Food Authority is doing now, including: working with the Farm and discussing how we can get more information, how we can see more signs of animal tragedy, so that we are more conscious of catching up when things are going wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e447	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first by Per Roar Bredvold.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e450	Of course, the lack of animal welfare harms the animals, but it also damages the industry and reputation. Fortunately, there aren't very many tragedies in a year, but all the tragedies we hear are all the tragedies we should have been ahead of us. One thing is what happens on each farm, but also during transportation from the farm to the slaughterhouse, some tragedies occur by the animals being stressed, injured or dying. Here, for example, chicken transport is mentioned as one of several examples. The progress party has addressed this in this room several times without any significant improvements being made. My question is, why has the Council of State not given more priority to reducing the damage caused by animal transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e457	Everyone involved in animal activity has a very high responsibility, whether for recreational or commercial use. That's why in Norway we've had a tradition of having a very strict code, and we have a good animal husbandry. Recently, we have tightened up the legislation on the keeping of fur animals by getting a new, more stringent fur regulation. We have tightened up – and are working on tightening up – the legislation in relation to chicken, in relation to experimental animals, in relation to the killing of animals, in relation to the holding of elephants in circuses. A number of different measures have therefore been taken to improve animal welfare while at the same time ensuring that livestock can be operated in Norway. So that's the balance we're going to have. In Norway, we have to maintain the top international standards on animal welfare, and we do so, and that is why we have also made new restrictions, including: for chickens – which is the last thing out there now – to ensure that we can have an ethically sound and good animal husbandry in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e462	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e465	We're going to seek together in everyday life,' says the Council of State, in order to avoid the personal tragedies, and I fully agree with him in that. The very best way to work together in agriculture, which is a lonely profession, is to run the farms together. And that's where the Council of State has a special responsibility, because we have a number of rules that hamper the possibility of co-operation in Norwegian agriculture. It goes on quota limits, it goes on production ceilings, it goes on distances, it goes on a number of things that are simply disadvantages for people to be able to apply for work – and therefore also socially – and to avoid some of this basis that we are now discussing in a very serious matter. Will the Council of State do anything about this, which is his opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e470	As far as power-intensive production is concerned, we have a concession law for it, given that we have a desire to spread production across the country. In the case of milk and co-farms, which the fleet representative is also concerned with: what we have started to do in recent years is to treat the operation of co-farms in the same way as the operation of other types of milk production – that it should be the same as who runs the production with regard to the subsidies to be paid. That's the basic idea right there. It is fully possible to operate joint farms in Norwegian milk production. It opens it to the full, and it facilitates it, but it's up to the individual's choice whether to do it or not. But in the case of grants, we believe that there should be no reason for those who co-operate to receive much higher subsidies than those who alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e477	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e481	In the case of animal welfare, the last focus has been on a special industry, the fur animal industry. Many of us are concerned not to cut everyone over one comb, but there are broken vessels in different directions – even within this industry, unfortunately. Now this government has the habit of making promises, and I thought it was a very interesting promise that the State Secretary of the Council a little while ago gave to the NRK. On the question of when this long-awaited investigation into the feeding of fur animals would come, he answered the following: ‘It is not finished until Easter I can promise you.’ It says State Secretary Buttedahl to the NRK. I do not know if it is a promise that the fur industry or government partner SV will be most satisfied with, but for us it may be interesting to get along when this investigation comes. I know that many people in the fur industry themselves are concerned about it coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e493	Norwegian fur nutrition has received a disproportionate amount of criticism. If you look at the conditions in Norwegian fur nutrition, it keeps a very high quality, and it's among the world's leading in the field of fur animal husbandry. Keeping animals is demanding, it is challenging, and keeping fur animals is particularly professionally demanding and challenging. That's why my predecessor, Lars Peder Breck, has tightened the legislation for keeping fur animals, and it's been a very close surveillance activity. There is no nutrition that the Food Authority has had as closely as the fur animal nutrition. In addition, a very large proportion of supervision has been unannounced, and they have been risk-based, so that you can go after those who are most likely to have anomalies, and you have been very quick to impose improvements if that has been the case. What I think is a bit strange in the Norwegian fur debate is that there is no more discussion about banning the use of fur instead of banning the production of fur. If you want to get the fur alive, you should at least start there, because Norwegian fur nutrition is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e500	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e503	First of all, a little comment on the concepts: I think the Minister of Agriculture should care a little less about pets, but a little bit more about pets, because pets may not fall under the responsibility of the Food Authority, but are perhaps more polyester production. [[Laughter]] I am very concerned about animal welfare in very many areas, both in terms of the competence of the Food Authority, which very many farmers give feedback that is limited, and about the understanding that animals have different needs. Then I'm back to fur animals. It's small predators. There's something other than sheep, cows and cats that we've had with us for maybe 2,000 years. These are animals that haven't been in captivity in more than maybe ten years. The Council of State considers that there are other requirements for animal husbandry – that animals have other needs around, for example: water, digging and all that, than animals that have been loved by us for thousands of years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e512	Now I don't think either pets or pets are a legal term, but I'm taking that shade with me. It's possible to feed some pets as well. But in the case of fur animals, there's a reason we have a particularly strict legislation in the case of fur animals, because it's a professionally very demanding animal husbandry. There is also a reason why the Food Authority uses more resources in fur animal nutrition than in other industries, because we know that damage can occur quickly, and that it can also damage the reputation of the industry. It can hurt an animal, and it can cause a lot of suffering. Therefore, the Food Authority focuses heavily on this industry. It's a strict code. But then our professional authority – and our assessment is – says that the industry is basically able to live up to that legislation, which makes it a good animal husbandry. If actors fail to comply with that legislation, they will be required to improve it. All teams of animals are demanding and a great responsibility, and then we focus in particular on following up the conditions in Norwegian fur nutrition, and conditions are basically good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e521	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e524	I would like to continue to ask the Minister for Agriculture. In the last few reports, we have seen several reports that show that the government will not achieve the objectives of the agricultural communication it presented last year, with the use of the tools it has. It's just to go and see the Minister's own cereal strategy committee. We have had a meat sample that has looked at the circumstances around that production, and TINE has also looked at the long-term in milk production. All have – if not unambiguous – elements of saying that there are not enough instruments to achieve the objectives set. This is serious, both for food safety, for the production and for the profitability of the farmers. The instruments proposed in several of the reports are the instruments proposed by the Right, both in the Chamber, in the draft budget and in our alternative agricultural communication, namely to look at the subsidy structure towards more productive measures – that is, to distort the use of instruments, of budgetary support – but also to see if there are production regulations that prevent optimum production in the various areas. I would like to ask the Council of State whether he will now also look at the kind of action, see that it is production that is the main thing, and then turn budgetary support and the structure of subsidies against it, along with deregulating what can prevent production.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e535	One of the first things I did when I became Minister of Agriculture and Food last summer was to put down the cereal group, just to get new tools, new measures and new assessments on how to increase Norwegian cereal production. The second thing I did was to introduce the percentage -- or at least it was known that we would suggest to the Storting that we should introduce the percentage. The reason was that being a volume producer in Norwegian agriculture would pay off. You should be paid for the product you deliver, and the government believes that it is most sustainable to get most of the revenue from the market, not from subsidies. Therefore, percentages, which enabled one to have an opportunity to continue to have price developments when the costs in society otherwise go up. Then we set down the beef and veal group to produce even more instruments for beef. So the basis for the question that has now been asked is exactly what we ourselves have done, because we want to increase production. The most important measure we have is customs. This has made it possible to obtain a price and a security for the Norwegian market and to have a safe outlet for Norwegian agricultural products in the Norwegian market. We have secured that against the votes of the Right, the Advance Party and the Left. The next step we have been taking is to strengthen agricultural research and advice. We know that some of the biggest successes in Norwegian agriculture have been when new ways of solving things, new varieties, and by clearly driving more efficiently. That is why we also increased support for agricultural advisory and research in the State budget and through the agricultural settlement in spring. The last instrument I want to put forward now is the budgetary instruments. There will be a discussion with the agricultural partners on how to use budgetary instruments even better. My objective, of course, is to use budgetary instruments in a way that increases Norwegian food production, and that is in line with both the two reports that have been submitted, and with the agricultural and food reports that were dealt with here last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e548	Sometimes the Council of State's answer reminds me of the story 'Good day man axe shaft', only with the change that here it answers 'percentage' no matter what the question may be, because it's a relevant answer to most things, the Council of State believes. His own sample sizes and groups have just suggested some of what I'm dealing with, namely: deregulation where there are production barriers – twisting the subsidies, so that they go in a more productive direction. I'm not against it if it's the case that the Council of State intends to lower the subsidies, but that's not what he's been thinking. The discussion is about producing, as his own sample has suggested. Does he support such a thought?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e555	The right thing is to answer the most important one first. One of the most important things is just market opportunities, and therefore the percentage of customs duties. When it comes to proposing a large scale deregulation, we have read the sample reports in a very different way. For example: However, beef production in Norway is scarcely regulated there. It's grant rates, but people can produce what they want. In the case of cereals, there is no concession legislation either. You can produce as large an area of grain as you want, but it's a small grant ladder of 800 pieces. So I can't figure out how this has been read. One of the points of both reports is the use of budgetary resources. If we are to achieve the objectives they have set in the two reports, it is cut off in budget support that Right proposed last year by over 15 million. kr, the worst start could have been made in increasing Norwegian agricultural production and launching new offensive measures to increase the production of both cereals and beef.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e562	There are two follow-up questions – first Frank Bakke-Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e566	I record that the Council of State is struggling to read out what kind of instruments his selections propose. Then it is probably also quite unknown to the Council of State that one expert committee he has set up has in practice established that the target of 15 pst. organic production and consumption are incompatible with the objective of 20 pst. increased total Norwegian cereal production. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on the instruments, but here we have two clearly defined targets from the Council of State, one of which hits the other. Politicians then have to clean up – if politicians have messed it up, politicians have to clean it up. The executive politician in this way is the Council of State standing here. The question then becomes simple: when the Council of State has to enter and choose between increased organic production or increased total production of Norwegian cereals – what will he choose?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e573	Our main objective is to increase Norwegian food production by about 20 pst. That's our main goal. Point two: in the case of organic farming, I think too many people spend time talking down Norwegian organic farming. We're just spending a very small proportion of the budget money on organic farming – at the base of 200 million. NOK, if I do not remember completely incorrectly. So there's a small proportion, and just a tiny bit of that cut that the Right proposes in its alternate budget. Our aim is that when Norwegian consumers want organic products, organic products should be produced in Norway. Because we want to have a diversity in Norwegian food dishes. One contribution to this diversity is that you also have organic lamb, organic beef, organic eggs and organic milk. But of course it has to be market driven. There is no point in producing a lot of organic products, which the market does not demand. Then we have to find that balance. We believe it is wrong that all so-called organic products should be imported from abroad. But we want to have a diversity, and that's what we're doing with the budgetary resources we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e580	Torgeir Tåldal – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e583	A measure of increased food production is well agreed by everyone in this room. But today we also have a deficit of sheep meat. We have a deficit of lambs, we have a deficit of cattle, and we have a deficit of calves. It's clear that when we talk to the farmers and the industry themselves, they say, we're going to be able to get enough beef and be self-producing on this, but then we have to do something about the system. Then we have to deregulate and increase our concessions, so we're allowed to do this. "Ammeku," those who deliver cattle, say, "Let's get increased frames, from 50 to 75 animals, and we'll do this." So we hear this everywhere, when we talk to the farmers themselves. The farmers will and can produce more. So my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State not see that it is now time to do as the farmers themselves say, turn around in agricultural policy and turn the state aid from land to production?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e588	For instance, beef production and lamb production are not concessional, as the representative of the Treldal question gives the impression. So it's a wrong premise for the question. You can produce as much beef as you want, as long as you have an animal welfare standard. We have concessions for chicken, pigs, turkey and eggs. That's absolutely right. But within the production that is being raised here – beef and lamb – you don't have it. Some and eighty percent of our budget goes to the grass-based livestock farm. The Progress Party wants to halve budget support. The best way to make it unprofitable to produce beef in Norway is that kind of grip. In addition, the Progress Party will reduce customs protection so that it is not possible to have profitability for large volume beef production in Norway. So there are no concessions, so those who want to produce a lot of beef can do it. But it's economically demanding. That is why we need to use budgetary resources and customs to ensure that it is profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e593	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're moving on to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e605	There will be one change in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 7, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, has been transferred to the Minister for the Environment who is directing him. At the request of the Minister for the Environment, this question is moved and answered in response to question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e618	‘In 2012, 68 juveniles of yerv were recorded. This is an increase of 10 from the previous year, and it's a dramatic increase. The stock target of the prey agreement is 39 annual juveniles. Jerven takes a lot of grazing animals and domesticated many places in the country. In the inner parts of Sogn and Fjordane there are also this winter's records of several yervar, and there is great concern about what will happen when the grazing season begins. What will the Council of State do to follow up the robberies agreement with 39 annual young people, and when will this aim be achieved?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e630	As noted in the 2011 Robbery Agreement, there is still a licensing agreement to be the main instrument for regulating the stock of yours. In years, as before, the license agreement has not given you a satisfactory withdrawal. Of an 183 yew quota, 57 were shot. At the same time, this is 14 more yorks this year than last year, suggesting that the licensing agreement has been more effective than before. The environmental management is concerned that the licensing should be effective. This includes: take action, such as the training of licensees, to achieve this objective. We cannot do this work on our own, and we need good partners, such as Norway's Hunters' and Fishers' Federations and others. As far as possible, the environmental management shall ensure that the remaining licensing allowance is allocated to the areas where licensing rights have been granted, if the licence agreement of 2011. Furthermore, it is clarified that the priority should be given to harvesting in areas which are priority areas for grazing. The draft agreement also states that one should aim to take out your Yews during exceptional withdrawals during the licensing period. This was followed up both last year and this year. In 2012, 68 young people were registered in the country. Of these, 17 were taken out of the environment management. During the licensing period this winter, the Directorate for Nature Management has taken decisions on the withdrawal of individual animals, and 22 yorks have been destroyed by the environmental management from January to 15 February. As of today, 32 yews are fields of environmental management. I think the Directorate of Natural Management is aware of the responsibility they have to regulate the stock in line with the settlement of the Storting, and that they carry out the tasks assigned to them. At the same time, I would like to point out that one must be realistic when a set of requirements for what can be done to extract the remaining licence traps. In region 8, there was a quota of 88 yervar. It may appear that the quota in untargeted areas has been set at a high level, so that the quota itself is not delimited. Such a high quota can help create an artificially high expectation of how much you want to extract. In the areas with no target of youth in Troms, 18 yurvar were registered, and 11 are shot to this day. Roof game subjects set an allowance of 30 yurvar in this area. This is an example of how the allowances must be viewed in relation to what is in the range, when you create expectations about what can be extracted. In addition to spring, the directorate will assess exceptional withdrawals on an ongoing basis. In line with the predatory game agreement, it will be necessary to pick up individual animals and hi in individual areas. I can't guarantee when we can reach the target, but I can guarantee that we're working to reach the goal as soon as we can. I assume that an increased focus on streamlining the licensing process through training, together with the work of environmental management through exceptional outsourcing, will allow us to have a nitrogen stock that is close to the stock target within a short period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e643	I thank you for your answer. To the end, one should reach your goal within a short time: the question is what one thinks about it. But it's a 183-animal licence. Of them, 57 are animals. That means that there's still a huge increase in yours. It goes, as in any case I interpret it, wrong way. Therefore, the measures are not sharp enough. Senior Advisor Knut Morten Vangen stated in a web page in Nordlys on 17 February that there is no automatic way to get the remaining animals in the quota. This is a strange statement. My question to the Council of State is: How will the Council of State ensure that the Directorate of Nature Management meets the agreement on predatory game, and that the administration takes out the rest of you? How should this be done in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e654	What I tried to say in my answer was actually to go quite thoroughly through how one, in addition to the licensing case, which has not been enough in the last few years, will try to reach the goal. I, the Minister for the Environment, and everyone down in environmental management, are concerned that we should have effective management in line with the inter-political agreement in Stortinget. I therefore went through a wide range of actions that are being taken to achieve this objective. At the same time, I have to say that, for various reasons, it is imperative to achieve a whole range of objectives. That's why it's necessary to do even more. And as I also have a warning: it applies to everything from exceptional withdrawals, withdrawals, to further enhancement of competence and other measures that will be necessary further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e661	The exceptional withdrawals must be made in winter, because they allow you to get the remaining quotas. Here it looks as if there is little progress. That's why I'm not happy with the pace that it is, and with what the Directorate of Nature Management is doing in this case. We have a challenge with what has been asked in the past: what the Council of State will do to ensure that there is no predatory game representing the damage potential of domestic animals and domestic animals. We have one thing when it's for the king eagle; there it's undecided. When it comes to you, we have too much stock in relation to what's in the looting game deal. So I'm very concerned about the evolution we see in grazing, and that grazing can simply be pushed out many places. In Sogn and Fjordne it shall not be you. Then I want to address a local question here: what concrete action will the Council of State take to ensure that the herd does not harm domestic animals in Sogn and Fjordane?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e670	To take Sogn and Fjordane first: There were two juveniles of you in Sogn and Fjordane in 2009 and one in 2012. All of them are taken out, according to the information I've obtained. It is important, in areas where it should not be you, that this is followed up by the environmental management. That's what we're concerned about, because the threat to the robberies deal is that we're actually following up what there's agreement about here in the Storting. So I'm going to end by saying that I agree with the representative that it's an important goal to reach the stock goal for you guys. When it comes to the way we have chosen to manage our large predators, an attempt should be made to follow the stock target. Just as they think one might be skeptical of the stock of wolves, we have a duty to follow it, we have a duty to do the same for you. That's why I spent a lot of time going through a series of extra measures that we're implementing, and we need to do more of them in the future to achieve the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e681	‘For four years now, the Ministry of the Environment has had the E6 trasé elections through Åkersvika in Hamar for treatment. This is despite the fact that local politicians, state politicians, the State Department of Agriculture, the State Roads Agency and the Grails representatives agree to follow today's trajectory. Does the Council of State consider it acceptable to train a road project that screams after being started and where many accidents occur, and will the Council of State cut through and ensure that the Ministry of the Environment immediately completes the case?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e688	This is a particular and much more complicated matter than most of the countermeasures that the Ministry is dealing with. There is not least reason why the extension of the road along the existing route involves intervention in a nature reserve which also enjoys international protection under the name of the Ramsar Convention. There are strict guidelines on how to treat such Ramsar areas. The legal framework conditions for the approval of such an intervention have been submitted to the Ministry of Justice. The law department points to several aspects that must be clarified in order to take a final decision as to whether option A can be selected within the framework of natural disaster law decisions on territorial protection. From this point of view, we are now working on what requirements must be imposed on the extension of the E6 in order not to break the Ramsar Convention and decide on natural disasters. So I want to add that despite this, it is clear that a cumulative treatment period of about four years is too long. So I'm going to make my decision quickly, so that you can get on with it. We are now working closely with other departments that are in charge — this to ensure a decision based on enforceable commitments, so that further progress and planning will not be hindered.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e699	Thank you very much for your reply. I agree that the nature diversity law should be taken into account – that is important. But it is that on this road section, since the road section was opened in 1994, we have had 52 deaths and over 480 serious injuries. There are many people; there are many lives. It's a road that hurts needs to get in place. Having a world record, with four years of treatment, in training the treatment of a case, can't be good for a Norwegian State Council. I am very pleased that the Council of State now says that he will deal with the matter quickly, but I would very much like the Council of State to be clear whether this matter will be resolved well in advance of the summer, or whether it will still be such that you risk waiting a long time. Even if it is said to take a short time – four years is definitely not short – it seems to take even more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e708	I am pleased that the representative says that natural disasters are important and that nature and the environment are important. At the same time, I would like to say that the concern for a new, better and more road-safe route on this route is very important. That's why I'm saying that we can't actually have a case that lasts so long – although this has been a far more complicated case than most contradictions that lie in the department. As I said: I am now working closely with other departments to get a final solution quickly – also a solution that does not put new unnecessary obstacles on progress and where there are unresolved conditions. I think everyone will be aware of that when a decision is taken, because there have been too many intermediate stations with new problems in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e715	That's very good. I think everyone now expects a quick decision to be made in the Ministry of the Environment, and that the Minister will quickly see to it that these things are clarified. I also think it is good that the Council of State says that he intends to clean up so that there are no new issues – because there has been something this matter has lived with. First something has come up, then you've figured it out, and then you've suddenly found out that there are new issues that need to be investigated and evaluated. This is how this case has been allowed to take place, until it has become a world championship in the postponing and finalisation of a case in a department. I am very pleased with what the Council of State says, but I still hope that he can be somewhat more specific in terms of when he expects to have this done, if he can at least promise that it will be completed before the summer of 2013 – so that a decision will be made by the Minister of the Environment on these matters. There's a screaming need to get this in place, and people expect you to finish this training soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e722	Except that I don't want to set a date, but say that the decision is to come quickly, I would say that otherwise there was a lot of sense in that representative. These things have to go faster, even if they're complicated. We have to put forward a decision that does not have any new problems buried in it. It is important that road development and other types of development can be speeded up. That is why, in consultation with other departments, I will present a joint decision that can actually be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e727	We'll then take up question 7.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e734	This question, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e737	I would like to ask the following questions, which I had originally asked the Minister for Transport, to the Minister for the Environment: ‘Many may indicate that the government will be positive to a new E6 bridge in Åkersvika. This will further delay the project and will cost over 2 billion. kr. Is this really a decision for which the Council of State will go?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e746	First, I want to refer to my answer to question 2. It is true that the Ministry of Transport has made the State Road Administration look at different adaptations within the route that has been provided. This includes, inter alia, the costs of replacing fillings in Option A with different lengths of bridges. The reports show that there are significant costs associated with a long breakover over Åkersvika. It is not the case with a billion-dollar bridge, which has been mentioned in the media, and which can also cause delays in progress. Otherwise, I – as I replied to question 2 – cannot go into what solutions are being chosen, but only confirm that we are in the final phase of the work, and that I am adding a final clarification that can give a progress in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e755	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There was a reason why I asked this question to the Minister for Transport so that we could answer these questions from both the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Transport today. But I record that what has happened has happened, and that the Minister for Transport will not answer my question. This is a matter that has been going on for many, many years, so people are frustrated. When reading e.g. in the excellent newspaper Hamar Arbeiderblad, 5 March 2013, that some representatives of the Committee on Transport say that it is madness to build a new bridge, and that it is madness that it will take so long, I hope that both the Minister for Transport, the Minister for the Environment and, if necessary, other ministers who are going to have something to do with this matter decide quickly, and that a simple and straightforward solution is being found that the drivers, the business community and those who are using the road will have a safe, safe and secure way to go. That's what the representative Hoksrud said, there's a way where there's been a lot of deaths and a lot of accidents, and if nothing happens quickly, these ugly numbers are going to increase, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e762	There are enough government councils that sometimes want to answer other councils' questions, but I believe that according to the principle of accountability, the Constitutional Council is responsible to Stortinget. It's certainly not about unwillingness, but I think it's a regular routine. Then I agree with the representative that there is a need for a quick clarification in the matter, and that there is a clarification that can stand and make progress. As I said before, four years are too long in such a case, although it is a special and complicated matter. So I really don't have anything to add to it. I'm adding up a quick decision. There is a definite need for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e769	I thank the Council of State for confirming that a decision will be taken soon. Although the Council of State will not say exactly when the answer will come, I assume it will come soon – and preferably before the summer break, of course. On 14 April, four years ago, the ministry received the letter, and the matter has been going on for several years before it too. It's a matter that's really inflamed, and that's about to have a decision, so we get a safe and good way forward. I trust that the Council of State and its colleagues will clarify this quickly and effectively, that there will be no new big bridge, that this will be done in a simple and good way, so that taxpayers get a good and good way at a reasonable, good price – without tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e776	Here's a little shade in the final phase that's a little bit different. But otherwise I will repeat that I agree that there is a need for a quick decision. It is a matter that has a doctor for too long, and I believe the representative can feel confident that I have got that message now after these two questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e781	The size then goes back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e788	‘Western Viken healthcare companies plan to reduce treatment provision for patients with drug and psychiatric disorders in Asker and Bærum by merging two institutions. Reduce the number of places by one and a half to save about four million. kr. The health company has failed to notify the municipalities in breach of its own cooperation agreement. The down-priority of the offer to this vulnerable group is very serious. Will the Council of State intervene and stop the closure of premises until a need-to-be study has been carried out?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e795	The question is similar in content to the question of a written answer from the representative, Sanner, who I answered on 22 February this year. That is why I should like to make a significant reference to that letter of reply here today. But let me first stress that I share the commitment that the representative shows to this group of patients, which I also have high on my priority list, in order to ensure a good and sound treatment offer. In the letter to the representative Sanner, I confirm that Vestre Viken is planning to merge the daily offer at the institutions Åsterud and Frognerlia, and set up a new unit with 15 seats in a building in Blakstad, where it is structurally flexible in terms of number of seats. The two sections today have 22 days' space, but the use of space has varied slightly. Åsterud is located at Blakstad, while Frognerlia is located in a residential area in the municipality of Lier. At the new Blakstad unit, it is also planned to establish an expanded outpatient offer. An outpatient offer located by the unit allows the same staff to follow up patients when they are out of daily treatment. Overall, this seems to be a good solution. As stated in the reply letter of 22 February, Health South-East has indicated that it has long been difficult to manage drug treatment services at the level that should be required in the specialist healthcare service. Joining Åsterud and Frognerlia will significantly strengthen the professional environment, it will be easier to recruit employees, and more individualised treatment will be possible. Collecting these offers will also lead to more efficient operation and financial savings, including: because fewer managers and night shifts are needed. I follow the situation on the drug field carefully. I visit institutions and see how development is going. Like the representative Sanner, I'm concerned that no patients should suffer from such conversion processes, but conversion processes are necessary here as in other areas. Health South-East has ensured that the health business is closely monitoring the development of waiting times and waiting lists in the context of such conversion, and that the need for possible measures to ensure sufficient capacity and care for patients is continuously assessed. Then the representative refers to the failure of warning to the municipalities. We have to take that seriously. Health South-East has briefed me on the situation at Västre Viken and cooperated with the municipalities. This shows that they have reviewed cooperation procedures and made changes to ensure good involvement. In addition, reference is made to meetings of the General Cooperation Committee on 1 February, where it was decided that mental health and alcohol should be the focus of community health cooperation in the Western region. Let me also add that I believe that these cooperation agreements are very important instruments throughout the cooperation reform, including in the field of mental health and drug abuse, and that they are useful instruments for finding suitable alignment between the specialist health service and the municipalities. I expect, of course, that there is also practice in this part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e808	It is at least a very bad start to a cooperation when Vestre Viken breaks an agreement to inform the municipalities. These are municipalities that have a significant and growing need for drugs and psychiatry. I also record that the Council of State uses terms such as that it is a good solution and that the offer is being strengthened. It seems to me that it makes no sense to claim that the offer is strengthened when it is put in place. One third of the seats are laid down, and then the Council of State claims that the offer is strengthened. It's not the first time that it's cut in the Russ and Psychiatric Treatment in the West Viken. In 2011, 11 million were cut. kr – then in the low threshold offer. In 2012, it was cut 25 million. kr in the psychosis department. In 2013, treatment sites were reduced. How can the Council of State claim that the offer will be strengthened when you start putting down spaces?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e815	It is clear from the answer I have given that this way of coordinating resources by having better staffing and getting an outpatient offer could provide a better professional offer. I notice that representatives from the Right Party are constantly pointing to spaces being laid down, but they never talk about space being created. Never have we had more daily places in our country – 1,753 versus 1,593 in 2008. Never has the specialist health service spent more money in this field than in 2011 – 3.5 billion. kr or 31 pst. more than in 2007. Never have so many annual works been used, never are so many outpatient consultations given – 307 000 versus 150,000 in 2007, 100 pst. increase. The image here is that there are conversions. It must also be done in this area, but it is done throughout the construction of spaces. And, of course, health regions are responsible for the good quality of the professional offer, and they need to be covered.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e822	Long lists of reprieves do not impress those who are now losing their treatment sites. It doesn't impress those who are waiting in line. Nor does it impress me that the Council of State comes with long lists when we see that it is cut in the Russ- and Psychiatric treatment in the West Viken. It may hit the most vulnerable group in our healthcare system. Nor can I understand that the Council of State can claim that an outpatient offer involves strengthening the offer for this group. This is a group that needs long-term places, not short-term places. Let me repeat the question: how can the Council of State claim that this is a good solution, and that you strengthen the offer, when the reality is that you put down one third of these places?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e831	I have not presented a show list – I have listed the facts to the representative Sanner. It is necessary to do in a situation where he and his colleagues from his party travel around and systematically blackpaint the situation in Norwegian care and follow-up by drawing a picture that there are systematically laid down places when the reality is different. Changes will happen locally, and it will continue to happen. What's the situation in the case of the specific case in the West Viken is that it's about making arrangements that are structurally more flexible in terms of the number of spaces. So I'm not going to go well because fewer are going to get treatment. The responsibility for the treatment remains the same as before. Of course, outpatient clinics should not replace long-term treatment. I have stressed the importance of long-term treatment in the mission document, but the fact that an outpatient clinic is available in connection with the offer allows users to get a better overall offer both before and after they have been in a long-term stay.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e844	I have a question for the Minister of Health: ‘Is it the case that the Council of State, as he stated to the NRK Østfold on 8 February 2013, maintains the assurance that ‘Phoenix Haga will not be closed until they are shown what they are good for there’ and that Health South-East will now submit a new tender?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e851	I think the representative knows the answer, because this has been thoroughly discussed in the media locally. But I'm going to repeat this from Stortingen's pulpit. The purchase of healthcare by private, non-profit institutions is essential for health regions to have sufficient capacity to provide the public with good and sound services in the area of drug treatment. In addition, as I see it, it is desirable that ideal establishments carry out drug treatment. It happens, and we want to do that. In the case of Phoenix Haga, they did not reach the call from Health South-East. The offer went to another non-profit organisation. It's a result we have to be open to when we get an offer to solve problems. I have been busy looking for opportunities to find a solution where Phoenix Haga could continue his offer, so that they could put up a new tender when and if it had to come. That's why, in meetings with representatives of Phoenix Haga, who have great people, competent people – committed environments – I have been positive that Health South-East could find a possible solution. What was at issue at that time was to find an opportunity for further operations of the institution until a possible new acquisition in the field of arms control. I have regrettably found that this has not been possible within the applicable law. When public purchasing services from private individuals, we need to comply with EEA law and public procurement law. Health South-East has now, after careful consideration, found that there is no lawful access to continuing the contractual relationship with Phoenix Haga. I have to accept that. Through my role as owner of regional health companies, I can ask a lot, and I ask a lot, but I can't ask them to break the law. I know that Phoenix Haga has obtained legal assistance, which has concluded differently than Health South-East has done in the matter. The Ministry has therefore contributed to this argument being made known to Health South-East so that it can be included in the overall assessment. Then I have confidence that Health South-East will follow up the steering signals I have given in the 2013 mission paper, to look at the capacity of long-term drug treatment sites. It is important that Health South-East rapidly clarify its future needs and, if necessary, clarify whether further purchases of services will be made in the field. It also increased quite sharply last year. Finally, on a general basis, I would like to stress the central role played by the private, non-profit institutions, and will play, in the field of drugs, also in the future. As an image on this, I can mention that about 60 pst. of the total drug treatment capacity provided by private — in all substantial private, non-profit institutions. Their efforts and importance must be more closely linked to the other services in this area. The private institutions that have an agreement with regional health enterprises must be included in professional development and planning processes, as I have underlined in the year's mission document to regional health enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e870	Now it is in the interests of the Council of State, but it is primarily in the interests of the 2 000 who are in line for drug treatment that the Council of State can keep their word and that the Council of State has the necessary means. There are exceptions to the law on acquisitions in the case of non-profit institutions serving households and private organisations. I have seen that the government is occupied with openness. My question to the Council of State is: When Phoenix Haga sends an application for access to the legal basis for direct purchases to be contrary to the law, will they receive it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e877	Let me just repeat for the record that Health South-East increased its purchases of services in this area in 2012. Let me also repeat that when Phoenix Haga and another non-profit organisation did not get the assignment, there were 19 others who got it. So once again I have to remind representatives from the Right that when there are tenders, there will be someone who does not get. I can understand that is frustrating for environments that are very committed to what they are working on, but this is happening. I'm trying to be helpful to see if there's any way to support these disciplines for a next crossroads, as I said in my first answer. With regard to the last question, I have to assess where such a request comes – whether this comes to Health South-East or whether it comes to the department before I can give a clear answer to it. I'm an all-rounder of transparency around this, both around the criteria and the requirements that are being imposed, so that everyone can understand that the decisions have been made on a safe basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e884	I am primarily concerned about the 2,000 who are in line and who are not being treated. It is also a fact that long-term sites are actually being built down. Of course, I am also concerned about those environments that have gained competence over many years. The exemption provisions are laid down in the law. Therefore, transparency in the legal assessment is interesting and necessary. Transparency is necessary regardless of whether it is the Department or Health South-East that may come with it. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State still be able to keep its word and ensure that the offer to drug users at Phoenix Haga is not closed if it appears that the law opens the way for continued operation without breaking Norwegian law?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e893	I have to deal with the fact that Health South-East has come to the conclusion that they do not have room for it. I've gone quite close to hearing this, and I trust that they have come to that conclusion in the light of the situation that is. Yes, people are waiting for treatment within the drug. There are tens of thousands of people with drug problems in Norway. A little under 2,000 waiting in line. The waiting time is shorter than the average otherwise in our country. That is, it's not the same 2,000 that waits for a few weeks. That's when people get an offer. So I want to stress that there's not a plug in the system we have here. And then I'm again concerned that there should be openness around the processes, of course. What has been the question about Phoenix Haga has been this gap. The contract they didn't get, we can't do anything about it. I think that's perfectly obvious. But the question is: Will they be able to maintain their environment for a new bidding round — if and when it comes. Going in and doing something in this space we haven't found the basis for, and it really has nothing to do with the exception clause in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e906	I have the following questions for the Minister for Maritime Food: ‘The Ministry has now sent the case for green salmon concessions to be consulted and the criteria for their award. In this context, many industry actors are asking questions about the whole system of green concessions. Can the Council of State explain why no R & D concessions have been awarded instead, and what should the penalty be if the conditions are broken after a time and a concession has been exchanged and two greens have been returned?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e915	In 2013, 45 new green salmon concessions are to be published. I want to stimulate the development of technical solutions as a driving force for positive change in industry. The aim is to raise more environmentally friendly solutions from research and testing to commercial use. The draft allocation regulation is now pending consultation with a time limit within which to deliver an opinion on 18 April. As the representative of Nesvik points out, there is also something called research concessions. However, there are significant differences in the allocation of commercial salmon concessions, which are what we allocate in this allocation round, and R & D concessions. R & D concessions — as opposed to commercial salmon concessions — are granted on an ongoing basis upon application. They're free, and they're limited in time. The purpose and quality of the project are assessed prior to award, and conditions of research competence and other professional competence are often laid down by the applicant. In other words, with R & D concessions, we do well to facilitate research. They are intended for research projects – not general, commercial operations. The pure R & D shall initially continue to operate through the use of research authorisations. As I said, however, I want to get solutions that have shown good environmental performance up to general commercial use. It is then up to the applicant to document how good the solution is. The letter of consultation therefore draws attention to the fact that the entirely experimental solutions – where the results are little documented – are probably more suitable for a R & D permit than a green permit. In the case of infringements of the conditions laid down in the green authorisations, the consequences are also described in the letter of consultation. Infringements under conditions may result in reactions and penalties. It may be imposed, periodic penalty payments, fines or periodic penalty payments. Withdrawal of authorisation is an intervention and should be used with caution. However, this may be the case if breeders do not have the power to comply with the conditions despite repeated impositions. 35 of the 45 new concessions require redemption of a current concession. That is, there will be two green concessions against surrender of one existing concession. The representative of Nesvik has asked questions about what happens to the permit which the breeder exchanges if the conditions are not met. In the letter of hearing, we say that if a new green permit is withdrawn, the permit exchanged will be returned to an ordinary authorisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e930	I understand that the industry has become confused, and the confusion is no less as you read the actual draft consultation that the government has sent out, and that I am in front of me here. It's a little strange that for these ten concessions, more stringent environmental requirements are to be imposed than if you exchange an existing concession and get one back. If you're going to switch in one – and then I refer to the closed bidding rounds in Troms and Finnmark – you're fine with 0.25 holus per fish in the plant. But if you're going to have a new one, it's going to have to be less than 0.1. This makes confusion complete. Now, when the Council of State also indicates that if you have received these two and break the terms, you will only have to return these concessions, but still get one back. Does the Council of State realize that you can be more easily confused with the writing that you have sent out?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e935	That's the danger of working so hard on one thing and you think it's so good that you're not confused. Then my challenge is actually to explain how things relate. When you send things to the hearing, it's just to get feedback. We're not just doing it to get the time to go. It is precisely to get feedback, to get questions, and then, if necessary, to correct the course if necessary, and not least to resolve any questions that might have to be found. It may be that there are examples in this case, but what we have to remember is that there are two degrees of greenness here. It is the ten dark greens – which clearly impose significantly more stringent requirements. That is also the background for setting a fixed price on them. The applicant for such a permit shall know what costs have to be incurred. When it comes to the exchange, I don't realize it's going to be so complicated. Because if you break and don't manage to get to the goal, you maintain the ownership of the one you have. It's not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e944	I really look forward to the fact that the Council of State will now have the opportunity to inform the undersigned as she has taken such a good stand in the matter, she said – especially related to what has to do with the number of holuses that should be allowed. In Nord-Troms and Finnmark you have cold waters and initially a smaller loop problem than other places. In particular, in that region you should be able to have a higher number of lice per person. concession – in the closed bidding round – other than you can have other places in the 10 open concessions. Both in Nord-Troms and Finnmark, where you have little element of lice, you can increase the volume to 0.25 holus per fish. But on the other ten, you're down to 0.1. Then I'm going to ask the Council of State to inform me, who obviously didn't understand this, what is the background for the different criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e951	There's probably a danger that there'll be more than 1 minute to go into all the details here, but I hope we'll have ample opportunity to go through it at a later stage. In any case, in Troms and Finnmark, there is a very small loop problem. That is why we have allowed ordinary green growth in those areas, in the light of advice from the administration in that area. In the case of the ten, it is complicated to mix geography into them in relation to the other 35. We're going to have a non-discrimination of what we can call the ordinary greens, and we have a non-discrimination related to the ordinary ten, regardless of geography. So that's the exact same thing. If you want a dark green in the north, it's the same requirements if you're applying for it in Finnmark, or if you're applying for it in Hordaland. So that's not going to play the geography. It's only when you mix the two. It should be easier to argue for less lice in Finnmark than in Trøndelag, all the time when there is no lice of importance in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e960	That's what you don't do, but I'm done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e965	The conclusion is that we need more than 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e974	‘In a chronicle of today’s economic life on 4 March 2013, the Council of State writes: ‘Getting more money for Norwegian transport is one thing. An equally challenging challenge is to use them to get the most out of the money.’ Thus, the Council points to two main challenges in providing Norway with a road and rail network that is at the same level as the comparable country that Sweden, Switzerland and Austria have. What is the new main action of the Council of State to raise, respectively, more money and better use of the money to give Norway a real commitment to travel?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e981	In my chronicle, to which the representative Sortevik refers – and also in the debate we had in this room last Wednesday – it was a point to conclude that we in Norway still need to improve in areas such as design, more coherent development and efficiency. Sick if a lot has happened in recent years, I think we still have to see if we can get even better, and I'm convinced that that's a potential for that. The representative, Mr Sortevik, points out in his question that there are two main steps that need to be taken to provide this country with a good and modern transport system: more means and more efficient use of funds. In my view, there is no contradiction between the two. This government believes that if we are to have a modern transport system, we must be willing to pay for it. We can't get away with that. It is not only possible to organise and streamline us to wider roads and a more punctual railway, it also needs money and tough priorities. And as most people know, this government has done a lot in terms of appropriations for transportation in recent years. The big transport promise – to which the representative Sortevik refers – is actually going on right here and now. And from the government, we're going to lift even more. This promise is going to give solid results. But that also gives us some challenges. To make this promise, we need more competent people, we need a well-functioning construction market and more construction machinery, and we also need more foreign entrepreneurs into the Norwegian construction market. It's not available overnight. That's why we're looking at how we can get more foreign entrepreneurs to Norway, how we can get enough people with the necessary skills, and how we can plan better and faster than today, just to mention some of the examples. To sum up, this government will assume that more money is needed if we are to have a modern transport system. But this does not preclude us from also looking at how that money is used as best as possible. As mentioned, there is no contradiction there. National transport plan is not far away. There comes the government's overall arrangement and further plan for our transport system, as regards both the level of the funds we plan to use, and how we intend to use them. I expect that we will have many and good opportunities to discuss the content of it when the government's proposals are put on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e990	We will certainly have ample opportunity to do so. I think we can establish that the two of us agree that more money is needed. We have the money – Norway is rich in oil, but poor on the way. The red-green government has not managed to link oil wealth collected abroad with a high need for investment in its own country in road and rail. Investments in Norwegian infrastructure can provide high social and socio-economic returns and provide a basis for value creation in the coming years. Will the State Council use infrastructure funds, as the Progress Party has long recommended, an infrastructure fund where returns from parts of the oil assets are used to pay for new roads and new railways in Norway? It will actually be in line with the rules of action as it is today, but, above all, it will be good and responsible use of more oil money for road and rail in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e999	Suffering if the representative maybe at the end moderated it a little, there is probably no doubt that the government and the Progress Party have different views on how to deal with the rule of action in the Norwegian economy. The progress party wants to spend more oil money than any other party on the Stortinget, that's their way of solving some of the challenges. Year after year, the government has increased the appropriations for transport of the state budget, but we do so within the framework of the action rule and through the necessary and sometimes difficult priorities that need to be made to provide new resources for an area. That's what the government is going to do. This means that we believe that efforts in recent years have been great and important, but it also needs more resources to get the modern transport system we want in terms of both road and rail. That one should do it by breaking the rule of action, or adding more oil money into the Norwegian economy, the government does not believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e1004	The government spends more oil money and oil money outside the state budget when appropriate, including: to equity of large government entities. But more important than answering the question of the use of project funding. The predecessors of the councils, Navarsete and Meltveit Kleppa, have thought very much about project financing, but have both been stopped quickly and in cash by both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. It's got to be with the mind. Project funding means that large-scale road and rail projects are provided with predictable and long-term funding together with building decisions. So we can build bigger, we can build coherent, we can build projects that are so large that international actors become more interested in building in Norway. All of this makes more effective use of the money. The question is then, not least in the light of the debate on the last few days, whether the government will use project funding on the ferries-free E39 and on the intercity development in the East, the two largest transport projects in recent times.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e1009	I feel that in the debate on funding for transport, many people are looking for new ways to do it. Common to the new ways to do it is that none of them is a detour or any quick way to get extra money. It is either project financing or OPS. Project funding must also, if it is to be used, be in line with the general economic policy framework and within a policy of action, so that there is no easy solution to raise any extra money in this sector. I believe it is fully possible to build coherent and faster based on annual appropriations, only the appropriations are predictable. It actually proved to this government, unlike previous governments, that we grant the funds annually that are necessary to achieve rational progress in the projects we have started.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e1016	Question 7 has already been dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e1023	The question concerns urban packages: ‘The three morgue cities, in cooperation with the State Road Administration, have developed urban packages for more environmentally friendly transport. Tolls and priority projects have been incorporated into local authorities’ decisions for the purpose of reducing private cars. It's added up to 75 pst. local and minimum 20 pst. State funding. Urban packages need to be seen in the context of government's commitment to regional development around medium-sized cities, including in particular: in the district and regional notification. Will the Council of State open up for setting up urban packages in medium-sized cities, such as Ålesund, Molde and Kristiansund?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e1032	My answer to the question to the representative Dahl is yes. The government will provide for the establishment of urban packages also in medium-sized cities if local initiatives are taken. The establishment of these types of toll packages is a condition for the payment of road charges. We are aware that all three cities in More and Romesdal have taken principle decisions on toll-funded urban packages and that this is a basis for further work from the cities. Then the work contained in the urban packages has to be quality assured and also subject to a concept selection inquiry. The government will follow up the climate agreement in the National Transport Plan when we present it in the United Kingdom in April, and then we will also present our policy for the development of environmentally friendly transport in urban areas. However, it is clear that many of the measures contained in the proposed urban packages from Moravia are important in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e1041	It was a very joyful clarification from the Council of State. It's a significant political burden to take such a tough grip as these three morgue cities have done, and then it's great that the Council of State, the Ministry of Transport and the government put this into NTP. My follow-up question is, to what extent will we be able to get a clear signal at NTP when it comes to opening up, not necessarily for these three cities, but for medium-sized cities? Can we expect it to be made clear in the NTP when it is presented in April?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e1048	In order for things not to be misunderstood here, I would like to say that what I am replying to is that we are opening up the kind of urban package that also includes medium-sized cities. It has not been said that we have taken a decision on each urban package, because it must take place in a process between cities and the state, and it must be subject to quality assurance which is necessary for each urban package before a final decision is taken. However, it is true that the representative points out that in the case of the national transport plan, it will not necessarily contain questions relating to each urban package, but it will contain a policy related to environmentally friendly urban transport as such. It will not be closed for medium-sized cities to fall within that type of scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e1055	I'm still satisfied with the answer. What I think is important to see is that the use of tools in these urban packages, which were originally intended only for big cities, needs to be adapted enough to the challenges facing medium-sized cities. The situation is that there must be a balance between whip and stimulation. In these three cities, considerable emphasis has been placed on the organisation of walking and cycling routes and on increasing public transport. However, with the introduction to cities, it may also be a recognition that private car transport will continue to be an important step towards increasing the attractiveness of urban centres. So I hope you're going to start with a slightly different tool than what you've been doing in the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e1066	I have to answer that question on a general basis, because it is difficult for me to address questions relating to each urban package, which have not yet been addressed as regards the country. But I have to say, first of all, it is a condition for all urban packages that the payment of transport charges is at the root of the work. Then it is that one would like to exploit the potential for public transport and public transport, and there are good opportunities in all three cities. Eelsund is perhaps the most advanced town in the field of walking and cycling, and it also has a population base that means that a person can get very far in collective action. But it is also a good potential for the other two. So it is that so far, in the context of urban parcels, the state has also called for a reduction in the growth in car use – and I do not imagine that those demands are going to be substantially reduced. But it is clear that one has to go through, on a case-by-case basis, when they have to come to treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e1084	The size would now address question 9. However, the President cannot see that the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland is in the Chamber. So we go to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e1097	The representative Mr Øyvind Håbreek is not present either, as far as the President can see. That means that case no. 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-13.ana.ud437e1112	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
