ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e55	They called the alternates of Akershu County, Tom Staahle and Knut Tønnes Steenersen, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e75	The Presidency today presents its position on the revision of the Storting Rules of Procedure, proposing several important reforms to the proceedings of the Committees and the Storting. The proposals are based on the report of a working group set up by the Presidency on 24 May 2012, which was mandated to review and propose amendments to the Rules of Procedure. The working group was composed of one representative from each of the seven parties on the Stortinget and was chaired by the then fifth vice-president, Dagfinn Højbräten. The report of the Working Group was submitted to the Presidency on 28 February of this year and is printed as Document 14 for 2012–2013. The report proposes a number of amendments to the Rules of Procedure. On some points, the working group was divided into a majority and a minority. The proposals of the majority involve substantive changes to 21 paragraphs, in addition to two completely new paragraphs. The Presidency has largely followed the recommendations of the working group, with additions and adjustments on some points. The Presidency saw it as important to find solutions that everyone in the presidency could stand behind, and therefore the Presidency's recommendation is unanimous, with the addition of two minority proposals from the first Vice-President, Øyvind Korsberg. In Documents 14 for 2012–2013, the Working Party discusses possible reforms of the Rules of Procedure on which no concrete proposals were made, including: whether written questions should be settled by the committees, rules on the stability of depositors or rules on alternative penalties for breaches of the obligations of depositors. The Presidency has taken note of the working group's statements on these issues and that no concrete changes were proposed and, like the working group, we have found no reason to propose reforms in those areas. I would like to say a little bit about some of the most important amendments in the presidency's position. The Presidency proposes that one third of the members of a committee be given the right to require the Committee to consult on a case. Today, the question of holding a hearing is decided by a common majority decision. The proposal therefore strengthens minority rights in the committees. At the same time, the Presidency points out that further developments towards even more minority rights may be at the expense of fundamental principles of democratic representation and majority rule. The Presidency also proposes that a request from a minority to hold a hearing on a case may be brought before the Presidency for a decision by another minority of the Committee. That rule is intended as a safety valve in order to avoid the use of minority rights to require consultation in such a way as to require the Committee to hold consultations in disproportionate numbers of cases. The working group considered several measures to strengthen Stortinget as the current debate venue. The Presidency considers this to be very important and has therefore proposed to allow the Committees to address issues within their responsibilities for debate in the Grand Duchy, other than those dealt with by the Committees. A committee shall be able to take the initiative in such debates up to twice per single session. Self-regulation is also proposed for the conduct of such debates, whereby one representative from each party is given access to an unlimited number of posts. This is an innovation that the Presidency hopes will be used by the committees to raise important issues for debate, so that the Storting will be given a strengthened position as the country's main venue for current political upheavals. The Presidency proposes major changes to the rules governing the consideration of representatives by the committees. Firstly, it is proposed that one third of the members of the Committee should be able to require the Committee to send a letter to a Council of State requesting the opinion of the Council of State on a proposal for a representative, even in cases where this is not required by current rules. Secondly, it is proposed to amend the decisions on which the Committee may recommend the proposal for a representative. In particular, it shall always be recommended that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the minutes. Thus, the representative proposal on the basis of which the case is based will always be queried, just as when a roll-out notice has been addressed by the Stortinget. In addition, opinions on the decisions which the Committee may wish to adopt — which may be proposed in the draft representative or other proposals relating thereto. The only case in which it will not be necessary to recommend that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the minutes is where it is recommended that the entire proposal for a representative be rejected for formal reasons or that the government be sent for examination and opinion. Party groups with less than 11 representatives do not have members of all committees. It may be difficult for them to obtain information on matters dealt with in the committees in which the batch group is not represented. It is therefore proposed that the Presidency be able to consent to the access of a representative of such small party groups to all documents of committees to which the party group is not a member. Today, there are no general rules on voting in the committees, nor is it regulated what should happen when voting ends in a vote. The Presidency proposes to include rules on this in a new paragraph, the general rule being that committee decisions are taken by a general majority. It is also proposed that the chairpersons of the Committee should have a double vote by common accord in all votes, except in elections, and that, in the absence of the chairperson of the committee, he or she should receive a double vote by unanimity. In the case of elections, the more complex rules applicable to such votes in the Grand Duchy shall apply mutatis mutandis in the Committees. The Presidency also proposes some amendments to the rules on Storting's proceedings. The rule that the presidency can decide that there will be a break in the negotiations between 9 p.m. 16 and 18, proposed deleted. Following a change in the rules on the settlement of meetings in Stortinget in 2011, such a break has been decided at just a few large-scale meetings. Instead, a more flexible rule is proposed to allow the presidency to decide to pause the main meeting when, and for so long, it would be appropriate. Today, there are no specific rules in the Rules of Procedure concerning the examination of proposals for postponement of proceedings. The Presidency proposes to include rules on that in a new paragraph. Proposals for deferral must be made before the end of the debate on the matter, and the proposal may require that the matter be referred back to the Committee, or that the Grand Duchy's further consideration of the matter be postponed to a subsequent meeting of the same Grand Duchy. Proposals for deferral of the case to a later wholesale meeting must be considered and voted on immediately. Under the applicable rules, a final decision cannot be reopened in the same staging session. This provision applies only to whole cases. Today, many representative proposals are being made that contain a number of individual proposals, and often some of them, but not all, have been decided earlier in the session. The Presidency therefore proposes to amend the rejection rule so that it also applies to individual proposals, and not just to whole cases. It gives better opportunity to reject proposals that Stortinget has already made in the same session. On the other hand, it is proposed to soften the rules on rejection of interpellations, so that an interpellation should not be rejected even if it concerns issues raised earlier in the session as part of a more comprehensive case. In the opinion of the Presidency, for example: not a proposal by a representative with a number of individual proposals to address individual issues in the draft representative later on to a broader debate in the form of an interpellation. In accordance with the applicable rules, two questions may be asked in writing and questions in the calendar week Question Time. That rule may have led to fewer questions being submitted to the ordinary Questionnaire. The Presidency therefore proposes that representatives should be able to ask two questions in writing a week, even if they also submit questions to the ordinary Questionnaire. This would hardly lead to many more questions for written answers, but could contribute to the revitalisation of the ordinary Questionnaire. The presidency's position contains several other proposals and minor amendments to the Rules of Procedure that I shall not go into here. Some regulatory changes are proposed, including: to renumber all paragraphs after the two new paragraphs. It may require some conversion for those who are familiar with the system approach in the current Rules of Procedure. The Presidency therefore proposes that the amendments enter into force only on 1 October 2013, at the beginning of the next parliamentary term. The amendments discussed here today must be seen in the context of the linguistic and technical revision of the Rules of Procedure, which was adopted on 7 June 2012. Together with the substantive review adopted today, Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure has been reviewing the most comprehensive review since 1966, at least – perhaps the most comprehensive one ever. When the new Stortinget meets on 1 October 2013, it will also be able to build on a fully revised, more transparent and accessible Rules of Procedure. I am sure that the new Rules of Procedure will continue for many years to come and provide a good basis for good practice and good practice, both in the Committees and in the Council. Let me end by stressing that during this process, both in the group that has worked on the matter and as a presidency, we have also had close contact with the party groups. It is the presidency's hope that what is now being presented is a thoroughly discussed and agreed solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e115	First, let me thank the President-in-Office for a good and thorough presentation, which is essentially also comprehensive for the view of the Advance Party in this matter. It is important and good that we have had a review of the Rules of Procedure in the way that has now been done. The working group has done a good job. The Presidency has followed this in an excellent way. On a few points, however, the Progress Party has additional proposals or divergent proposals. One concerns the ban on the re-promotion of proposals that have already been promoted as verbal proposals in the State budget. The budgetary process is such that many verbal proposals are often promoted that are not always as well justified. The fact that the proposals that are subject to voting are cut off from being later promoted as part of a representative proposal, which has a much broader and more thorough justification, believes that the Progress Party is wrong. We therefore believe that it is necessary to add to the Rules of Procedure that the ban on resubmitting proposals does not deal with the proposals which form part of the verbal proposals for the State budget. The second point which the Party considers should be amended is the time limit for the submission of written questions. These shall, in the view of the majority, be delivered as today, before 1 p.m. 12 Thursday. As a contribution to updating the debate in Stortinget more, we believe that the deadline should be postponed somewhat – that it should be ‘at the latest’. 12.00 last Monday before the Questionnaire’. This is really related to parts of the contribution made by the President of the Grand Duchy itself, about the importance of updating the debates in the Grand Duchy and updating the information provided by the Grand Duchy through these rounds of questions. The Progress Party therefore wants to change the deadline for the submission of questions. With this relatively brief justification, I take up the minority proposals of the presidency in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e131	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e134	Let me first say that it was a nice job to join this working group. It was useful and meaningful to sit around a table and think about and discuss with representatives of all parties how Stortinget's Rules of Procedure actually works. The presidency setting indicates that there is a real willingness to change established routines, when the foundation is good. Between 2001 and 2005, Stortinget had a special speaking committee. We recognized the presidency itself and also the presidency – I felt – when they sometimes suggested demarcations in the Committee’s proposals for debate. We liked to take lines on each other, not just on the state council. It was time-consuming. We received and proposed a sequence of tests for the sequences, so that a sequence would last one minute, instead of two. It was tried out. It's on the agenda and current practice, and I don't think anyone wants to go back to the tomnutta. What I want to highlight in particular is the point that is called '3.8'. There was an initiative from the Centre Party, which is now agreed – that each Committee should be able to hold a debate twice a year, with the background of a current theme within its remit. I would like to say that it is an example of their redness, both in the working group and in the presidency, by giving a chance to discuss this proposal and that it is now included in the draft Rules of Procedure. It was a suggestion that was made to say overtime, and it could have been rejected with that foundation. I think this is a proposal that can revitalise the little debate that is internal to the committees when it comes to what theme might be relevant, and it can revitalize the Storting. So it can make it possible for own debates initiated by the Storting on topical issues. It can – and I hope it will – underline Stortinget as the leading debater in the country. We suggested that the fractional leaders should have this possibility. The presidency has moved on. They suggest that each party point out a representative who should be able to participate in such a debate. With this a good suggestion has been better, in my view. I'll follow Stortinget's work from Rogaland to the fall. I look forward to getting an answer to: What is the first committee to appear, and what is the subject that is being debated first in the Stortinget, after this new paragraph?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e147	What we are now discussing, namely the Storting Rules of Procedure, is absolutely crucial to the vitality of the work we are doing. After being a contractor for almost 12 years, I would say that it is too little thorough, forward-looking, debate on political issues where it is important to debate the further course. In my opinion, it is a democratic weakness that the Control and Constitutional Committee, with its control cases, has become an increasingly important arena in this house. It is a weakness, in my opinion, because the control cases are a debate on what has happened. The majority must therefore reconquer the arena as the second most important interlocutor for parties, where parties are shown what they want with important political issues in the future. Therefore, the proposal for a new paragraph 51, third paragraph, is a very important improvement. As the representative of Meltveit Kleppa said, the paragraph reads: ‘In proceedings under the second sentence of the seventh paragraph of Section 22 one representative from each lot is given access to an unlimited number of posts.’ So each committee can initiate and tackle two themes twice a session. It will enhance respect for the Storing, and the parties will be able to show up in a wide debate. For example, we have had and now have a discussion about forestry and forestry. It is a shining example of the fact that the Economic and Social Committee could take the initiative to discuss what we want with forestry and forestry in Norway in the future – a comprehensive, wide-ranging discussion on that topic, so that the parties' leading representatives could really show up, what they will do in the future, and not pick up what has happened or has not happened in history. Similarly, in my committee, the Labour and Social Committee, the issue of child poverty, there are a number of issues that go on that. There is a great need for an overall discussion of what we are doing in view of the many unworthy situations that children have. We have asylum policy, a similar theme – large, difficult, important. There seems to be a lot of disagreement in this room – well, get it out, get the opinions out. We have two divisions in work and business – big, central themes that should have a thorough discussion. When one of these opens up that one representative from each batch gets access to an unlimited number of posts, we open up the arena of the most committed. We open up a situation where a high level of professional-political insight will be required to participate in the final phase. The most important thing women and people on the subject will be in the final race. We will bring out those who have the strongest commitment, who really have opinions, not just about what has happened, but what should happen. That's why, through this change, one will also develop greater professional-political competence, and I'll say, you can never be professional-politically competent enough to shape the future. Here we get an arena where it can really seem that you have the necessary overview, if you have the ability to see the necessary whole thing in the future. I would also like to say that this will make Storting's work more effective. There will be major debates, which will provide the basis for fewer debates and less need for the many Document 8 proposals that are being put forward today, on fragmented, small issues. To put it directly, in many cases they carry little. Therefore, when this is a unanimous position, and the group's proposals have been improved by the presidency, it is a good citizen. Those who get to participate in this discussion in the next big one have something to rejoice at.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e167	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e181	In the presentation of this report, the National Audit Office stated that they have identified significant weaknesses in the follow-up and use of aid funds in the health sector in Malawi. Medicine disappears in the chain to patients at hospitals and health centres, creating a shortage of important drugs. Riksrevisor Jørgen Kosmo stated during the presentation that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must strengthen its control of the use of funds. The practice that has been so far is unacceptable, and I am pleased that a majority in the vote requires much stronger measures to prevent such disappearance, and assumes that the follow-up of the Norwegian authorities is improved in line with the recommendations of the National Audit Office. Norway is today a significant contributor to Malawi. The country receives support from Norway through various organisations, such as UNICEF and the vaccine alliance GAVI, and also receives budget support. I had the pleasure of visiting Malawi in 2006, when I attended a Nordic field trip directed by UNDP. There we visited various health and development projects in the United Nations and met with organisations and authorities. The country had recently elected a new president. He had won the election with promises to eliminate both poverty and corruption. Shortly after the election, however, he threw the elected representatives out of the Parliament building and moved in there himself, when he felt that the Presidential Palace was too little for him. In meetings with the authorities I quickly noticed that as a Norwegian I was met with great goodwill, while my Danish colleagues received a more cool reception. I quickly found out that this was because the Danes had changed their aid policy to the country, cut traditional passive support and moved on to business development. They had, among other things, used their knowledge to build up brewery activities in Malawi. This led to value creation, jobs and made the country largely self-sufficient in products that they otherwise had to import, i.e. a win-win situation. It was naturally very popular among the population, while the authorities preferred budget support, which they could manage and manage themselves. Much good health and development work was done in Malawi, and many different organisations contributed to this. I spoke at that time seven different large and small UN departments, which contributed in their own way. However, it was a big problem that they were very poorly organized, and despite the fact that the United Nations had its own coordinator in the country, one knew little or nothing about what the other was doing. This could also lead to duplication and, of course, to poor use of resources. I hope the situation has improved since then. As one of the largest contributors to Malawi’s health assistance, Norway also has a responsibility to ensure that this assistance reaches those who need it and is used on the basis of assumptions. In this respect, I would like to refer to the recommendations of the National Audit Office that Norwegian aid authorities, together with other donors, should put in place measures to increase the availability of healthcare professionals, medicines and medical devices to ensure that the assistance benefits the entire population. It assumes that this is followed up. As mentioned earlier, much of Norwegian aid to Malawi is provided through the national budget. The national audit has revealed major weaknesses in the country’s financial management, which requires a much closer follow-up of the funds from the donor. I therefore assume that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is reviewing and ensuring that budgetary support practices and guidelines are in line with the expectations of the Stortinge, as also recommended by the National Audit Office. The report also revealed weaknesses in the follow-up by the Norwegian Embassy to local audits of the health sector programme in the country. The National Audit Office has identified several cases where the use of the funds has not been explained, without the embassy having followed this up in a satisfactory manner. This is unacceptable, and I assume that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is taking the necessary steps to put these matters in order immediately. Riksrevisor Jørgen Kosmo stated during the presentation of the report that: ‘as it is now, there is a question of whether such aid should be granted to Malawi’. It is not difficult to join his statements. A much stronger follow-up from the Norwegian side is required if this is to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e208	The aim of the National Audit Office’s studies has been to assess the achievement and effectiveness of major health interventions in Malawi, which are directly and indirectly funded by Norway, and to assess the follow-up and control of the use of funds by the administration. The study includes both the bilateral health sector support and the general budget support provided by Norway. In addition, the study includes the Global Vaccination Alliance GAVI and the Global Fund Programmes in Malawi. The survey covers the period 2004 to 2011. It is an overall committee which points out that Norway in its aid policy has taken on a special responsibility for its Millennium Development Goal No. 4 and 5 on molestation and control of infant mortality. In addition, Norway is channelling funds through the vaccine alliance GAVI, UNICEF and non-governmental organisations. The Committee has noted the progress made in Malawi in reducing infant and maternal mortality, but unfortunately not enough to achieve the objectives set out in the 2010 Health Programme. Furthermore, the Committee has noted that there are significant weaknesses in the work of the Malawian authorities in strengthening public health. Still, medical and nursing coverage is low, which means that the country is dependent on foreign health professionals. Malawi is one of the poorest countries in the world — with poor infrastructure and poor administration. In the opinion of the Committee, it reinforces the need for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take a closer look at the possibilities for follow-up to the provision of aid to Malawi in its national budget and accounts. This is also a very important tool to reduce the risk of corruption and maladministration. In this respect, the Committee points out that the Riksaudition questions the use of direct budgetary support to a country such as Malawi, where the audit and control systems are weak. However, the Committee notes that the main thing is that the aid projects and health measures are functioning and deliver results in terms of reducing child mortality, strengthening maternity and a general improvement in the country’s health supply and state of health. The Committee has also noted that the Global Fund was the largest donor to the Malawi health sector for the financial year 2011 to 2012. This fund finances almost all HIV/AIDS medications in the country. As of 2012, the fund gave such medicine to 300,000 people in Malawi. The Committee is also concerned that Malawi is fully dependent on the GAVI vaccine alliance in order to maintain its vaccine programme, and we agree with the National Audit Office that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should influence the two funds to involve the authorities more closely in the work. Among other things, the Riksrevision study found that GAVI represented 94 pst. the costs of vaccination of Malawy children in 2010–2011. The National Audit Office also considers that it is fully possible to make funds available for, among others: GAVI and the Global Fund in the budgets and accounts of the health programme. The Committee would therefore ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to make a specific assessment of this. Finally, I would like to draw attention to the replies of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the National Audit Office, where it appears that Malawi is one of the few African countries that are prepared to achieve some of the Millennium Goals of the United Nations. Among other things, both infant mortality and mortality among women in childbirth are severely reduced. The Committee considers this to be elevating, taking into account in particular the fact that Malawi has a gross national income per capita of less than one-fiftyth of the Norwegian population. The Committee also points out that Malawi has been able to increase its coverage for the treatment of HIV/AIDS from 3 pst. from 2004 to 67 pst. in 2011. Despite the major challenges facing the country’s health sector. The Committee considers that such results are the most important in summarising the effectiveness of assistance by Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e223	The aim of the Riksrevision study is to look at Norwegian assistance to the health sector in Malawi, which is indirectly or directly funded by Norway, and to assess the achievement and effectiveness of the objectives and to assess the follow-up and control of the funds by the administration. The study covers both bilateral health projects and budget support. The National Audit Office has also examined the work of the Global Fund and the Global Vaccination Alliance GAVI. Norway’s assistance leads to the development of childcare and childcare and basic health services in Malawi moving in the right direction. This is progress in Malawi, among other things. during the vaccination of children and the treatment of AIDS. At the same time, other important objectives to reduce infant and maternal mortality and to strengthen the health system have not been achieved. There are significant weaknesses in the work of the Malawian authorities in strengthening the public health system. Among other things, medical and nursing coverage is still low, which means that the country is dependent on foreign health professionals. Although a clear improvement in healthcare has been achieved, the Riksrevision has also revealed significant weaknesses in the follow-up to the use of aid in the healthcare sector in Malawi. There are major weaknesses in public finance in the country, and it has been shown that drugs disappear in large quantities on the way to patients at hospitals and health centres, creating a shortage of important medicines for those who need it first and foremost. I believe that much stronger action is needed to prevent such disappearances. I assume that the follow-up from the Norwegian authorities is now improved in line with the recommendations of the Riksrevision. Norway is and has been one of the largest contributors to Malawi and has a responsibility to ensure that this assistance comes to those who need it and is used on the basis of assumptions. The right considers that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must follow the recommendations of the National Audit Office and that Norwegian aid authorities, together with other donors, should put in place measures to increase the availability of health professionals, medicines and medical devices. This must be done as quickly as possible to ensure that assistance benefits the entire population. Unfortunately, Malawi, one of the world's poorest countries, also has poorly developed infrastructure and a very weak administration. This, in my view, reinforces the need for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to take a closer look at the possibility of follow-up on the appearance of aid to Malawi in its national budget and accounts. This is important in order to reduce the risk of corruption and maladministration. I also point out that the Riksrevision question the use of direct budget support to a country such as Malawi, where the audit and control systems are weak. In the evening post on 7 March this year, I agree with the Minister for Development that the control is too weak and that it is assessed to employ a financial controller at the embassy. I ask the Minister for Development to confirm that it has now taken place and that it is a system that works. After all, several months have passed since the promise was made. Much of the Norwegian aid to Malawi has been provided as budget support. Weaknesses revealed in the country’s financial management lead to a need for closer follow-up of funds by donors. It is therefore important that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs review and ensure that practices and guidelines are consistent with the Storting assumptions, as also recommended by the National Audit Office. Let me add that in the case of budget support, there should be some clear criteria on which to base. Parliamentary control, good control mechanisms to detect corruption, a movement – at least from the country itself – towards democracy and respect for human rights are all minimum requirements that should underlie when Norway should be able to use budgetary support. Budget support is not an appropriate instrument in the Malawi case, if you want Right's opinion, and it won't be anything Right's going to be on in the time to come. The right considers that the way in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ budgetary documents are drawn up, where an increasing proportion of the funds are allocated via large bag posts, further hampers the control of the Stortinge’s funds. We want parliamentary control, but then it is also up to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to contribute to the best possible functioning of Norwegian parliamentary control. The way in which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, perhaps, the Ministry of Defence's budgeting and budgetary documents are drawn up makes this control very difficult for the Grand Duchy, which is a clear indication of the large number of questions raised in budgetary terms. There are also weaknesses in the follow-up by the Norwegian Embassy to local audits of the health sector programme in the country. The National Audit Office has revealed several cases where the use of funds has not been explained, without the embassy having followed this up in a satisfactory manner. I therefore assume that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is now taking the necessary steps to put these matters in order and refer to my previous question as to whether there is an employee of a financial controller at the embassy. The Global Fund was the largest donor to the Malawi health sector for the 2011–2012 financial year. The fund finances almost all HIV/AIDS medication. As of 2012, the fund provided such medication to 300,000 people in Malawi. Malawi is completely dependent on the vaccine alliance GAVI to maintain its vaccine programme. I believe the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should influence the two funds to involve the authorities more strongly in the work. Malawi will not be able to take over the funding for many years with GAVI’s vaccine support integrated into the Malawi vaccine programme. In comparison, the Global Fund distributes AIDS and malaria medicine through other parallel systems. The National Audit Office believes that it is fully possible to make funds visible for, inter alia: GAVI and the Global Fund in the budgets and accounts of the health sector programme. The right supports the majority of the Committee to ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to make a special assessment of this and asks for this assessment to be carried out quickly. Finally, let me go back to the evening post on 7 March of this year, where both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development state that the study of the National Audit Office has ceased to exist, is irrelevant because Norway had stopped the health aid to Malawi for a period of time. That's not right. The study conducted by the Riksrevision is of the utmost relevance. There are Norwegian deliveries during this period during which the study has taken place, and this will be relevant with regard to Norwegian aid which is currently going to similar institutions. I think the Minister for Development should answer that question, whether he is on what is quoted in the Evening Post article of March this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e244	Malawi is one of the poorest countries in the world. It is a country that remains completely dependent on assistance in different fields. In Malawi, Norway has had a special responsibility for two of the UN’s Millennium Goals – Objective No. Four and five. There is a reduction in mortality among children under five years of age by two thirds between 1990 and 2015, and the objective of reducing mortality among pregnant and pregnant women by three quarters during the same period. There is progress in these areas, as has been pointed out, but it nevertheless appears that it may be difficult to achieve the targets set by 2015. The Malawi Health Sector Programme has shown positive developments in the availability and use of basic health services. Half the targets set in the programme have been achieved. Many are those who have been rescued from premature death, have been treated for disease and have avoided health problems due to preventive health work. The significance of this must not be underestimated. In other areas, developments have not been as good. Medical and nursing coverage is still very low, and the availability of medicines, medical devices and health buildings is the same. Norway helps bilaterally through health projects, but also channel funds through the Global Fund, the GAVI vaccine alliance, UNICEF and non-governmental organisations. Norway is one of the largest contributors in terms of health assistance to Malawi. We therefore have a responsibility to ensure that the funds arrive at those who need it, and that the money is used according to the assumptions. In the survey, the National Audit Office questions the control of the use of resources and the achievement of the objectives. They also make proposals for improvement measures. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall, inter alia: criticism of a lack of follow-up. It is constructive criticism that can contribute to an even greater impact of efforts. When assessing the use of the aid, it is also important to keep in mind the state of development in which it is located. The expectations as to which results can be achieved and how quickly must be seen in such a light. At the same time, in such countries, it may be particularly important that the authorities of the donor countries are more vigilant and closely monitoring the use of aid. This is also important to prevent maladministration and corruption. Assistance is an important matter for the Christian People's Party. We are concerned that Norway will share even more with the world's poorest countries. At the same time, of course, we are concerned that the help comes to where it should be, and that it is effective, so that as many as possible thereby get a better working day. It is therefore important that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs follow up and do what it can to ensure that the money is used correctly. This is not satisfactory when, for example: medicines disappear along the way to health centres and hospitals. Together with other donors, Norway should take action. The measures proposed by the Riksrevision must be carefully assessed in this context. Aid granted as budget support is challenging in poor countries with weak financial management. Here, close follow-up from donor countries is particularly important, so that the funds are used as foreseen. Despite the weaknesses pointed out by the National Audit Office, it is also important to stress that the National Audit Office can confirm that assistance to Malawi has produced positive results for the population and has been lifesaving for many people. In short, aid benefits. It can become even better by critical evaluations showing weaknesses and pointing to potential for improvement, and I believe that the work of the National Audit Office has contributed and contributed to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e267	I would like to say a thousand thanks for the opportunity to discuss how we can ensure that assistance is effective, that it comes out, and that we detect corruption and maladministration. I would like to thank the National Audit Office for their ongoing work to ensure that procedures can be improved and detected. I would like to say that it shows the value of the Riksrevision, and I would also like to stress that it shows the importance of having a state-to-state cooperation, which I know some representatives have previously spoken out skeptically against in this Chamber, because it shows the importance of building state institutions as the bearer of the further development of a country, and the Riksrevision – having an opportunity to detect corruption and maladministration – is crucial support. I would like to take the opportunity in this room to refer to an example. Recently, corruption with funds was found to be used for reconstruction in northern Uganda. That money was $85 million. kr, where 23 million. Of them, kr was Norwegian. That money was returned to Norway, we got it refunded. That was our requirement, and it went right. It was revealed by the country's own national audit. And who had built up the country's own national audit? Well, it was Norway and the Norwegian National Audit Office that had contributed. It shows how good state-to-state assistance can contribute to the development of communities, because it is not just important to look after Norwegian money. It is important to take care of and provide all public money, as in a single country, because corruption is run by the poorest people in the country. I have a lot of time here, so I want to go through all the comments and comments that are from both the Riksrevision and the Stortinget. I think it's good, thorough and important questions that are raised. Some of them require a little longer answer. Let me start with the beginning. Malawi is one of the poorest countries in the world. It has 15 million inhabitants, it's among the poorest we give assistance to in this part of Africa. Malawi's democracy has been slowly strengthened since 1994. I was in Malawi just before Christmas. They have 30 years of dictatorship, and the presidential change in April 2012 has led to positive changes in democracy and human rights as well as in economic policy. However, I would say not necessarily through the economic situation of Malawi, because they experience a downturn after they lifted a fixed exchange rate with the rest of the world, which was one of the things that the previous president insisted that was sensible policy. But Joyce Banda, the current president and one of Africa's only two female presidents, insisted that they should open up to floating exchange rates. This has led to inflation in the country for a period of time. Our view is that this is a sensible policy from the country, but it is also our hope that it will contribute over time to improving economic development. Norway is continuously working with other donors to monitor the best management of assistance. The National Audit Office's study shows that developments in the health field in Malawi have been positive, and that's the main thing, I would say, that's the positive found in the report. However, there are several of the objectives of the health sector programmes for reducing infant and maternal mortality and strengthening the health system that have not been achieved, and our objective must be to support them under their own policies in order to achieve this in the future. At the same time, however, I would like to stress that the objectives set in the health sector programmes were very ambitious. For example, the target of almost halving the mortality rate for children under 5 years of age from 133 per 1000 children in 2004 to 76 per 1000 children in 2010 was a very ambitious target. The mortality rate for children under 5 has dropped from 133 to 112 in this period. It's a happy decline, but it's not good enough to reach the goal. This shows some of the paradox and dilemma of target management, namely that if you set low targets, you won't experience being registered with a deviation from the target achievement, but you won't improve the situation that much for the population. But if you set ambitious goals, which are difficult, but important to reach them properly, well, then you're at risk of getting a deviation from the goal, but at the same time you'll be able to reach even further in the direction of the goal. As I said, an obvious dilemma. I am therefore pleased that the Riksrevision, while pointing out that the objectives set by Malawi have not been achieved, underlines that there has been a positive development. I agree. After all, it's all the positive results that are crucial for our further involvement in Malawi. According to the World Health Organization, Malawi is one of the few countries in sub-Saharan Africa that is set to achieve the UN's Millennium Goals to Save More Children From Death. In the period 2000-2010, Malawi has almost halved – 45 pst. reduction in – child mortality for children under 5 years of age. In sub-Saharan Africa, only Rwanda and the more prosperous countries of Botswana and Namibia have had even better development. The average decrease in infant mortality in children under 5 years of age in sub-Saharan Africa is 23 pst, while in the case of reduced maternal mortality, Malawi is the third best of the 15 SADC countries, with 45 pst. reduction. All of this is positive. Too many children and too many mothers die, but it is good that they succeed as well as they do in reducing child mortality. Let me then go to the committee's comments. The majority believe that much stronger measures are required to prevent the disappearance of medicines. I fully agree with that. This is an ongoing process. We have already launched a series of measures to prevent the disappearance of medicines after the end of the healthcare sector support for Malawi in 2010. It is too early to say something concrete about how much has been reduced, as no re-evaluation of the new measures has yet been carried out. However, the following has been done: the purchase of medicinal products Norway has been involved in financing beyond 2010, has taken place through UNICEF. They are delivered in finished packages, distributed through an American organisation, and local user groups are informed about the content when the medical packages are received. As a result, the possibility of local control increases, and the chance of theft is reduced. Regular checks are now being carried out on samples in UNICEF districts to investigate how the drugs are distributed, stored and handled, as well as what is available in hospitals and clinics. The inspectors say that there has been a major improvement in the storage and management of medicinal products in the last year. The central medical depot has been reorganised into an independent foundation, new control measures were introduced in 2012, new planning, reporting, audit and control procedures have been agreed and the annual audit reports are now subject to a double audit. The Global Fund and the United Kingdom otherwise support the training of the purchase and distribution of medicinal products, in order to improve their implementation. These are good actions that I hope will work, and that show that we are taking seriously the recordings that have come from both the Riksrevision and others. The Committee considers that there is a need for the U.D. to look into the possibility of following up the development of aid to Malawi in its government budget and accounts, as this will reduce the risk of maladministration and corruption. I agree. We are already working with the Malawian authorities to keep track of all kinds of aid that Malawi receives, and we are working together, among other things. with U.S. aid organisations on plans and reports for parallel actions, for which an aid Atlas containing that information is drawn up annually. We will follow this up in dialogue with other donors and authorities. But there is one dilemma – I just want to say – which concerns this point and a later comment, and which the representative Skovholt Gitmark also pointed out: the question of how much it is reasonable to demand that money that the authorities really do not have control of comes into the budget. It is money that is actually managed by other organisations, on the distribution and delivery of different things, that is beyond the control of the authorities. I just think to myself, if Philips, a foundation or someone else were to decide to support the various hospitals with some material, and we don't have any control over it here in this room or in the government, is it reasonable that it should come into the state budget in any way? It is important to get an overview of it, for there is assistance, but it is not necessarily reasonable to require it to enter the ordinary budgets when it is not controlled. I come back to it a little bit, but there is no doubt that the best way to ensure a coherent policy on this is to ensure the best possible transparency and best possible traceability for the role of parliaments – that money is channelled through the authorities instead of parallel structures on the outside of governments. It's obviously the best and the most effective. You will have a uniform reporting requirement, and less money going away in administration. But it assumes, as was pointed out by several, that you have good practice in detecting corruption, and that you have efficiency in administration. Then there is an important issue that was raised: the National Audit Office’s observation and criticism that they believe that budgetary support practices and guidelines need to be reviewed in order to ensure that it complies with the Stortingen assumptions. That is the recommendation of the National Audit Office and also that of the Committee. Here I think there are two things that are important to say. Firstly, I assume that the practice we have is in line with the Storting guidelines. I asked questions to our college, Norad, to get their assessment of this. It has come, and I will distribute it and make it available to the Committee. It says very clearly that they perceive that our practice is in line with the leadership of the Storting. I'll say two things about it. Firstly, comprehensive assessments of the public financial management systems of the countries are carried out in relation to the risks associated with the conclusion of budgetary support agreements. The budget support guidelines emphasise the sustainability of risks related to financial management, corruption, macro-economics, policy governance and external factors, and the risk analysis includes a weighting of the likelihood that risks may occur. Secondly, there is an assessment in the budget support guidelines, in line with them, of whether the authorities have a credible programme to strengthen public finance, because it does not just hold above a minimum threshold, you also need to develop, and help to develop in order to improve. You have to expect that a country that is poor does not have the same good governance systems as we do in Norway, but our goal must always be an improvement. The assessment of the credibility of the reform programme and its progress is assessed on a country-specific basis, and it is assumed that a country-specific performance framework for the reform programmes will be established, with clear target criteria as the basis for assessing progress. In addition to this, we always make our assessments in cooperation with the other countries. Let's take Malawi as an example. We stopped our budget support to Malawi in connection with the fact that in their economic policy they chose not to focus on part of the IMF's recommendations, among others. on what I mentioned about currency, but also other parts of economic policy. Many countries then closed their budget support programmes. Now several have re-opened the budget support for Malawi. We have chosen not to resume budgetary support for Malawi. One factor that is quite decisive there is that they do not have a new national auditor in Malawi now, which, in our opinion, makes Parliament's control of the government of the state insufficient. We have a desire to resume budgetary support for Malawi, because we believe that it is a good and correct policy. But the criteria of good financial management with the possibility of detection of corruption, which is about Parliament's control, which Peter Skovholt Gitmark also drew up, and what is about a positive development in the board of directors, which I believe it is in Malawi now – all three things must be in place before we resume budgetary support for Malawi. However, I would like to inform the Stortinget that, towards the State budget, I will review the practice and guidelines of budget support and present it in a proper context to the Stortinget in the context of the State budget for the harvest, so that we can take a discussion on the guidelines and their practice, in order to ensure that it is in line with what the Stortinget wants. So there was an ever-recurring criticism. The majority believe that the budget documents are designed in such a way that an increasing share of the money is allocated via sacks. Here I want to invite the Foreign Affairs Committee to debate, and now I'm just saying it to those of the members who are here. A few years ago, we had a device in our budgets that was so budgeted on land. So one sees that the Storting – the government and the Storing together – has become more and more concerned with the topic. The climate and forest project lies there, a commitment to renewable energy lies there, and several representatives of the Stortinget have proposed in a Document 8 proposal that we should have a separate budget line for education. We have the female budget line. These things help to make budgeting and verification of this more complicated for the Storting. I realize that, that's the first thing I saw. We take action internally when we now author the staging proposition, to make it easier available to the Storting. However, cross-cutting budget lines make this more complicated and more difficult to follow up for the Storting than it could be, if we had done it another way. But that's what it's going to be when a mere demand says that there's going to be a stake in that country, and at the same time, it's very busy making sure that education or renewable energy is a priority area. Then there is control over two different control signals, and it makes it more complicated to operate with budgeting. But I would like to take – if the Committee so wishes – a meeting on this to help us make it easier for the Storting to make the recordings that are desirable towards the budget presentation in the autumn. Then the question is whether we take the necessary steps to ensure that the cases that the Riksaudition has revealed are good enough. The central control unit in the U.D. has examined the three issues raised by the Riksrevision in its report. All cases have been closed without a central control unit finding any maladministration. We will also look at what kind of action can be taken to strengthen the embassy's follow-up and quality assurance assistance. We are in the process of taking temporary measures to strengthen governance. We are in a process of recruiting a consultant to work with the financial management, as Peter Skovholt Gitmark pointed out, until a sent financial controller is in place. But this also depends on the budget support in Malawi in the future, which is one of the things we consider. So there was one last question that I want to answer. The National Audit Office believes — and the Committee agrees — that the U.D. should influence the GAVI and the Global Fund to involve authorities more strongly in health work. So let's do that. Clear guidelines for co-financing and strategies to strengthen national ownership have been developed in both the GAVI and the Global Fund. Both participate in the international and national health funding dialogue, and dialogue with the national health and finance ministries has escalated. We are engaged in this field, and we are taking the lead in the discussion on co-financing and financial sustainability at the GAVI partner forum last December. We have a dedicated GAVI working group on sustainable financing that follows up on this. I am concerned that when we go in with assistance to a country, we need an idea of when it is to be phased out. I just thought I could mention on the same occasion that we, for example. in our cooperation with Tanzania now set an end date, a final plan that is parallel to Tanzania's plan to phase out assistance towards 2025, in line with Tanzania's expectations to have a plan to become a middle-income country in 2025 and also a large input into natural resources. This is what I think we should think about when it comes to all assistance. Clearly, Malawi is a country that is lopsided and will be dependent on assistance in the foreseeable future, but we must constantly think about how we build up health systems well, with enough doctors and nurses, and how we ensure that this funding over time is carried out by the country itself, among other things. by increasing tax revenue from the country. With this, I thank you a thousand for the opportunity to take up this discussion that the Riksaudition has put up. I would like to express my thanks for the cooperation with Stortinget and with the National Audit Office in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e322	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e325	I have a very brief question to the Council of State. Why does Norway, as the only country in the Nordic region, have an embassy in Malawi?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e330	That's because Malawi is a lukewarm country, and we're one of the countries that's been in Malawi over time. We have contributed aid in Malawi over time. It works well. It is one of the places where some countries, in order to avoid the poorest countries becoming so-called ‘orphans’, ‘aid orphans’, have to take responsibility in some contexts. We have done that in Malawi, and our cooperation there is good. We intend to continue working with Malawi over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e335	If I understand correctly, the most important task for our embassy in Malawi is to follow up Norwegian assistance. When a reader of the National Audit Office's report, there is a lot of money that has not been prepared and that has not been satisfactorily followed up by the embassy. If this is the embassy's only or most important task, why hasn't it been done?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e340	I do not agree with that description. The National Audit Office has gone in and looked at some of the programs that are there. They've been looking at health care in particular. The embassy also has a number of other projects to strengthen financial management, the general financial management – not just health-oriented financial management, but the general financial management – in the country, which is good, and which have helped to strengthen Malawi from their former position until today. I can say that there are several other countries – and also the World Bank – that have resumed the aid, the budget support, to Malawi, but we have chosen to hold back, until we have put in place a new national auditor and we have had a new review of the situation, because we believe it is important to meet all the criteria and the objective that lies there on the side of the Storting. But I believe that the aid in Malawi works. I believe that this report is also well documented by the progress that is for child mortality and maternal mortality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e348	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e364	It is a unanimous attitude of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in this matter. The Committee, during the examination of the National Audit Office’s investigations into local authorities’ control of services with national objectives, has stressed that it is the central users. It is we, the citizens, who rely on municipalities to control and control the services offered. Therefore, a Joint Committee considers that it is serious when the Riksrevision has revealed weak control and management of key services. The three areas in which the Riksrevision has concentrated its study: primary school, home and sewerage services, are all important for the population and, in the Committee's view, provide a general picture of the governance of municipalities with public services. However, it is important to add that the impact of lack of governance is not part of the study. The Committee considers that it may not necessarily be that a rapporteur is of good quality and that the quality of the non-reporter is poor. At the same time, municipalities must have knowledge of the services they receive, because the consequences of lack of control are that offences are not detected and that the necessary improvements are not implemented. The local authority is the top authority responsible for the services in the municipalities. The National Audit Office’s investigations reveal that the policy level is not sufficiently informed about the services provided. When half of the municipalities e.g. has not been reported on the offer to demente, it is serious. When we know that the Health Authority has revealed failures in home care both in 2010 and 2011, the local authorities should seek the quality of the same services, not least in order to have the necessary basis for intervention, prioritisation or change. In the Committee's view, there is a cross-section of view that the political level is being given too much information on inputs and allocation of resources, but little about the quality of services. The national audit report shows large differences in reporting in the three selected areas, where reporting at primary school is positive. It shows that government sector requirements affect governance and control. The Committee welcomes the fact that several of the proposals submitted by the Riksrevision have been met by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and that the Ministry is in favour of complying with several of them, such as further action to strengthen internal control, better coordination of government policies and improvements in the management audit. The Committee is of the opinion that municipalities should have the freedom to choose how they govern their activities under the applicable laws and regulations. At the same time, it is important and necessary for local government to obtain or obtain sufficient information on the state of service provision in its municipality. As the Committee sees it, there is no contradiction between these considerations, and it is clear that the most important thing is that the citizens are given the services they are required by law, regardless of the municipality in which they live.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e381	It is serious when it is found that very many local authorities do not have systematic reporting on the status of key service areas. In the large municipalities, this is quite common. It is surprising when the population in this way is treated differently in larger and smaller municipalities. It is even more serious when it is revealed in the report that the heads of administration in many municipalities have weak control of the status of their own municipality services, and that the municipalities make little use of the opportunities offered by the administrative audit, which also exist at municipal level. Equally serious is the fact that different sectorial requirements collide and make control difficult, and that the size of the municipality is systematically an area that separates the control of municipalities from its own services. In this respect, it is serious that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has little information, including on the use of regulatory governance documents. You get the impression that it is important that letters are sent out – not that they are followed up. In other words, this lack of control over own services and directives also appears to be a phenomenon that is spreading on the top level, i.e. in the department. It has been shown that many local government agencies do not receive reporting on the status or quality of important service areas, as I have mentioned. It turns out that half of the local government does not have to report on the offer to, for example: demented and of the competence of home services, i.e. the quality of care. Even fewer are reported on nutrition and pharmaceutical management in municipalities, which are also highly concerned with the quality of services for the elderly. Moreover, more than half of the municipal authorities are not reported on line renewal or spills and leakages in the sewerage system. In addition, many installations are in such a bad condition that they threaten functionality. Errors and defects in the sewerage system can have major consequences. This may include, inter alia: lead to contamination of drinking water sources, source floods and damage to roads and gardens. In addition, a 2011 Supreme Court judgment concluded that municipalities may be liable for damages if water damage occurs as a result of sewerage failure. In other words, I am not sure that the majority of local government and some of their members are aware of this responsibility. The population depends on local authorities being in control of the services offered. It is also important to provide relevant information to local authorities in the various areas in order to ensure efficient economic operation in the municipalities. In my opinion, it is a danger signal for Kommune-Norway that the Riksrevision points out that many heads of administration do not have a sufficient basis for controlling the status of the services in their respective municipalities. After all, these are all those who are going to present a draft budget on a perhaps not enough actual basis. Of course, it's not necessarily the quality of what you report, the quality of what you report, and the quality of what you don't report. Nevertheless, an overall Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs believes that it is serious that municipalities do not have knowledge of the quality of the services that local authorities actually receive. For example, four out of five municipalities have: not have been reported on nutrition and pharmaceutical management, in particular with a view to the significant failure of the health care services in municipalities in both 2010 and 2011. An expression such as ‘quality of care’ has been used a number of times in this room, and this is precisely the case at the actual municipal level. It is worth noting that, in the case of primary schools, there is a clearer target set, and local authorities are also more able to report. This is because reporting to the local government is required by law in this sector. This means that local politicians have better knowledge and control of this sector. This shows that government sector requirements affect the governance and control of municipalities. I would recommend that the Ministry of Local Affairs initiate measures that may help to provide the local government with the necessary management information in important areas. Municipal governance is important. The basis for governance must be knowledge. It seems a long way to go missing. These measures should therefore be tailored in particular to the needs of small and medium-sized municipalities, where the needs are greatest – clearly. It is important for citizens of any municipality that they receive services which they are required by law and that national targets apply to all citizens of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e398	In my opinion, surveys of local government management and control of services with national targets are both incredibly important and very difficult. The Riksrevision revises the decision of the Storting whether they are professionally good or professionally less good. The national audit must at all times relate to the law and decision and must be revised accordingly. Our task is to look at the experience of how these decisions work in practice, and then, based on the National Audit Office's review, not only look at how today's system works, but perhaps just as much as get a discussion about what the system should be like in order to make it more consistent between intention and reality. The point is that, as several have said, the individual should have equivalent services regardless of his situation. Weaknesses have been noted in both reporting to local government, weak control by the administrative managers, and low use by municipalities of the ability to control the quality of service provided by the administrative audit. It is clear that there is less reporting in small municipalities. It is usually different in need, but the same legal requirements. It brings me to the point of quality versus reporting. It is clear that there is no direct link between service quality and the level of reporting by those responsible for the provision of the service. What is central is that leaders at any level, whether large or small, have an overview of the situation in the area for which they are responsible. The way you get that overview can be the lack of it. Much of today’s reporting is fragmented and may not be appropriate in some cases for managers who have a busy everyday life to follow their duty, follow their territory and have a good overview. This can be seen, for example. in the document here that four out of five local authorities have not received a report on nutrition and medical care. We can stop at nutrition. Yes, how can the local government get an overview of the nutritional situation of the people with whom the home services are connected? It is a very demanding matter. It's very hard to find the parameters for what technically describes it. What is central is the extent to which home services function in such a way that people thrive, that they are not lonely, and that they enjoy life. There are conditions that are very difficult to report. So what I'm inviting you to do here is a discussion about what's good governance information. Based on my professional experience, I have learned that good managers are managers who have an overview, who can sense in a good way what is going on within their sphere of competence, and who choose other leaders who have natural authority based on professional respect in their field of competence. This is a management culture and a management tradition that, in my opinion, is far too little heeded today. We have previously discussed management in connection with July 22nd, and there were very clear governmental parties that management had to be exercised in a new way, so that those who were ever more sensitive to the situation would realize the importance of – and be trained to – acting maritimely in line with the intentions of the overall level. It's a very wise management philosophy for me. At the same time, it is very difficult to practice because it requires that management and those who are professionals in the practical everyday life have a common understanding and a common position on how to perform these tasks in a qualitative and effective way within the framework that exists. This is an attitude towards management that I believe is important for the Storting to discuss further, because the way it is being reported and controlled today has proved not to be sufficient in terms of the point, namely that, for example, what we are talking about now, municipal services, works well. There are many municipalities that may have poor reporting, but where people are very pleased with the services, because one has managers who have a clear understanding of the situation and thus do not have to report all possible relationships. I will not, of course, underestimate the fact that one should have a system that ensures that there is efficiency and quality in any section, but the way in which we do this needs to be discussed to the greatest extent. The National Audit Office’s references are based on today’s legislation and on today’s position on management. There's a great need to discuss what's good management ahead. The discussion of the 22nd July Commission has revealed that in the field of management and management culture, there is a need for change in other areas. That was the main point the Prime Minister referred to in that case. It also applies in a number of areas of general government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e417	I'm busy making sure people get good municipal services. Surveys show that the community at large is satisfied with the services they receive. For me, it is therefore important to clarify that the Riksrevision has not examined whether the inhabitants are getting the services they are going to have, or whether the quality of the services is good. The National Audit Office has examined the type of management and control the municipalities have in selected service areas. It is also important to specify that municipalities have an obligation first, as a statutory or regulatory task is put into effect. The national audit has examined services with national objectives. Local authorities are not obliged to meet national targets that are not reflected by a statutory or regulatory task, or by ear-marked means with specific obligations. In short, we can't require municipalities to write reports if they're not obliged to do so. I would also like to add that we rarely get complaints that there are too few reporting requirements, too few forms to be filled in. I am pleased that the committee agrees with me that the investigation basically does not say anything about the quality of the municipal service provision. The Committee also points out that it is not necessarily such that it reports, maintains good quality, and that it does not report in is of poor quality. I agree with the committee in that. As I read the report from the Riksrevision, the audit assumes that the scope and level of detail of the reporting indicate whether the municipalities have good governance and control. So simple and black-and-white is not the world. Control and control is about more than just reporting, and I am glad that the Committee expresses that reporting is only one of several means of achieving good governance and control. However, I also note that the Committee is concerned that the lack of reporting to local government can have serious consequences. In this setting, it will be used, among other things, to specify if you want to use it. a lack of reporting on the quality of supply and competence of the service provider. As I'm introducing, I'm busy that people get good municipal services. Of course, if the lack of reporting has the consequence that the service provision is irresponsible or inadequate, we cannot accept this. But as I see it, good control is not dependent on the local government getting a report on how e.g. The nurses put pills in the dosets. The important thing is that people get the medicines they need when they're going to have them. However, I still think that we should leave it up to the individual municipalities and local authorities to find the necessary level of reporting. What is a suitable level in a municipality does not have to be suitable for another municipality. It's about control voltage, it's about how many levels the municipality has, it's about complexity in the administration of the individual municipality, and it's of course about how you're reporting routines. As otherwise, knowledge is evenly distributed here in the country, and otherwise the local government is well-qualified to assess this itself. When I say this, it's not because I take lightly the Riksrevision's report. I think that there are elements that we are going to take with us, and that we are going to discuss further, and I would also like to stress that in the areas where a pointer is responsible, we take that responsibility. Our task is to make sure that the municipalities have order in their own houses. We have recently revised the legislation that applies to the municipalities' own control. Here we have entered a legal destination to instruct the administrator to report to the local authority on the internal control. We believe that it could be with and put internal control on the agenda locally. Then it is the department that is responsible for following up sectoral requirements that are laid down by law, regulation or administrative action, e.g.: within health and school. The supervisory authorities shall be responsible for supervising the legality and regularity of the services. For example, the Health Inspectorate regularly checks the situation in the care services. All enterprises, including municipalities, benefit from input and suggestions from others. I also think it is good and important for the municipalities to read the report and get a recording through it that they should discuss and use. However, in addition to what is required by law, each municipality is allowed to assess the relevance of the Riksrevision's views on how they should operate their municipality. That's what is called local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e443	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e446	I'm a little surprised by the way the Council of State has read the National Audit Office's report. I have not experienced that the Riksrevision calls for more detailed reporting, but relevant reporting. The Council of State states that reporting on national targets is not relevant, for that is what the Council of State says. She says it's up to the municipalities to choose, because it's municipal autonomy. What does the Council of State mean — which itself contributes to setting national targets for services to be provided by municipalities — is the meaning of these national targets, if they are not to be followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e451	What I said is that the municipalities are not obliged to report, if it is not covered by regulation or law. I thought it was something we could agree on. In addition to this, the municipalities themselves decide what they will report. I did not say that they should not take into account national targets, but I said that they should not report what is not covered by law or regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e456	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e472	Let me first congratulate Per Rune Henriksen on some kind of fire baptism in today's affairs. He has been entrusted with a lot of responsibility in these five committee cases that we are dealing with today, and so far it has gone well, as the case-law rapporteur in two cases already. The National Audit Office’s study of the Ministry of Knowledge’s coordination of research policy has revealed several weaknesses. It was granted in 2011 about 23.5 billion. kr for research and development in Norway. In 2012, it was granted 24.2 billion. kr for the same purpose. If you include the effect of the tax deduction on business, the sum is 25.5 billion. kr. Research and development appropriations come from 16 different departments. In other words, there is a lot of money going from many different departments to research and development. In comparison, Swedish authorities granted 31.5 billion. Swedish krona – which equals 28.8 billion. Norwegian Krone – for the same purpose in 2012. In order to succeed in research policy, it is essential that research efforts are coordinated. The overall responsibility for coordination lies with the Ministry of Knowledge. While the Swedes have put in place a long-term and committed plan for coordinating and developing research efforts – and that is why I took their figures into account – in Norway we do not have the same tradition of broad, long-term and committed research plans. In fact, we also have sporadic research reports, but this cannot be very closely compared with what the Swedes have been up to. It is possible that the weak tradition of Norway in this area helps to weaken the possibility of active and effective coordination by the Ministry of Knowledge. In any case, the National Audit Office has found that there are weaknesses in the coordination of cross-ministerial strategic processes by the Ministry of Knowledge, lack of coordination of the budgetary process, weak coordination of governance signals towards the Research Council and weak exploitation of the Ministry Research Committee (DFU) as a coordinating body. Of course, the Research Council also plays a crucial role in coordinating and targeting research. The Committee has taken note of the fact that the Research Council is subject to detailed management by the departments limiting the scope of the Research Council for a more holistic approach. There is a need for a more comprehensive target structure for the Research Council, and the Committee assumes that this is the result after the Ministry of Knowledge has carried out a larger evaluation of the Research Council itself. The National Audit Office believes that there is a large lack of coordination during budgetary management and in the development of key strategic objectives for research. The Ministry of Knowledge, for its part, considers that there is more coordination in this area than the Riksrevision study shows and shows in this context, among other things. to the informal political treatment of the State budget. While the Committee agrees that political treatment is part of the coordination work in the field of research, it is also difficult to identify it in a relevant way in a national audit report. Following the National Audit Office’s inquiry, a number of measures have also been implemented by the Ministry to help improve coordination, including: by using DFU more actively, and by reviewing and improving the target management of the Research Council. The Committee has also noted that the Ministry agrees with the Riksrevision that it is important to link research cooperation with the EU more closely to the budgetary process in Norway. The Committee's position is unanimous on all points, with one exception: the Committee's member from the Left calls for a mechanism for an innovation and research policy council at the level of the ministries, with the Prime Minister chairing the Council. Then I take a moment off the case rapporteur's hat and take on the progress party hat, because the Progress Party has sympathy with the intention of such an arrangement, but we believe it must be up to the government to handle its business properly. At the same time, we have some doubts as to whether such advice can be at a level above the ministry, which has a separate place in our constitutional system. However, this does not prevent the creation of a design that will safeguard the intention of better coordination and interaction in the use of research funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e496	It feels almost unreal to have so much speaking time, but I'm going to promise not to use it. It's the first time I've participated in such a debate, but this topic is very interesting. In my opinion, research policy is perhaps the most important strategic policy area we have today. It is largely cross-sectoral. We're looking at a global knowledge race that has replaced the previous arms race. There is a massive investment in research and development of new knowledge and technologies in many countries in the world, and it is likely that this effort will determine the strategic position of individual countries in the future. So this is a strategic policy area, and then strategic planning and management becomes important. And then we come to what is at the heart of the Riksrevision report, which is being debated today, namely coordination. Without coordination and without a comprehensive overview, it is also not possible to operate strategic planning and management. In the Norwegian, highly sectoral system, this is a major challenge. We have, from the Right, several times in research debates pointed out these weaknesses and called for a clearer willingness on the part of the government to take on strategic leadership responsibility in relation to important issues and discussions. Since the Riksrevisions report was available, we have received the new research report. Prior to the research notification, which has the title Long Lines – knowledge provides opportunities, a number of evaluations of different parts of the research system were available. After all, it is an objective that we should have a most efficient and efficient research system. There are many actors, and there is a need for coordination, role clarification and cooperation. Technopolis, which is the company that made an evaluation of the Research Council's function, pointed out as one of its main points precisely this coordination challenge. The Research Council is in a special situation. It is a government advisory body on research policy issues, while at the same time a government executive body is subject to the same government and it is to exercise government policy to a very great extent. Of course, the Research Council also has its own strategies and a dedicated planning tool that is used to support this work. When such an important report as the Technopolis report — presented last autumn at a large conference — points out this coordination problem and the strategic governance of research policy in Norway as a key finding, it may be strange that this issue has not been specifically addressed in the new Research Communication. The theme as such is not affected in any separate chapter. There is no reference to the Technopolis report or to some of the more fundamental questions that have been asked there. But I'll be clear enough with the government to say that some tools have been launched in the research report, perhaps primarily the idea of a long-term research plan, a ten-year plan. Whether or not to replace the staging messages is a little bit unclear. It's probably not going to do that, it's going to be rolled every four years, and as such, such a long-term plan might have a slightly limited significance in addition to the plans that exist today, through the system we have, among other things. with a research report every four years that will draw up the long lines — which is the title of the research report we are currently discussing in Stortinget. But the research report does not respond to the big challenge, and I would probably allow myself to say that a long-term plan, as outlined by the government, can easily become a paper tiger. It can easily become a plan that looks great, in which a lot of energy and work is put into, and which is debated, and then it gets limited importance anyway. It is likely to do so because it is the annual budgets that, after all, decide whether what is in the long-term plan can be translated into practice. And precisely the annual budgetary processes are what the Riksrevision has pointed out in terms of the coordination of work between the different departments, which then results in budgets that might perhaps crack to some extent, and bets that are not entirely interrelated. I think there is reason to mention that the research report that we have now received, Report. St. 18, illustrates in a rather striking way how this is related, or how it is not related, between departments. In the annexes to the Research Communication, a statement can be found from each department on the research strategy of the department concerned. When you look through these investigations, which are to some extent very brief, you get a clear idea that there's not enough talk here. And that is precisely the need for strategic overview and strategic direction of such a cross-cutting policy area, one needs to take a stronger hold. In addition, it must be mentioned that the Research Fund, a fund that was built up over many years, was approaching 100 billion. kr in provision, and where the return was to go precisely for strategic, overall purposes, the current government chose to remove, thus losing an important tool for overall and strategic governance and budgeting of research policy. Then you might think — and we have called for it from the Right on several occasions — that the government did some compensatory measures on the strong role of departments in determining how their own research resources are to be used, and has its own strategies for doing so. The government's research committee should have been revitalized. It should possibly have been led by the Prime Minister himself. We don't have any answers to these questions now, but it's time to look at how at the political level, at the top level of government, you handle these questions. The Ministry's research committee also exists, but it's an interesting observation the National Audit Office has made, and they write, among other things. in the report: ‘Twice-ministerial strategy work is discussed to a very small extent at meetings of the departments’ research committees.’ If you don't discuss that, how will it be discussed – if it's discussed. That might be the question. My impression after reading the National Audit Office's report and also the Technopolis report is that the Research Council is very much entrusted with coordinating the government's research policy. But it must be remembered that the Research Council has a two-part role – at least: it must be a government adviser, for example. on coordination issues. It is also necessary to exercise government and departmental control signals. And you should at best try to coordinate something that the government might have taken a greater responsibility to coordinate itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e525	The debate, which is also the basis of the Riksrevision study, addresses a very fundamental problem in Norwegian research policy, and it is a problem that is really getting bigger and bigger because research is becoming more and more cross-sectoral. The Research Communication has an annex of 40 pages that tells about the work of the different departments on research and competence. I think that is a very commendable annex, and it is very interesting reading, but it also shows the enormous need for coordination of research policy. And that's not just a political wish. I can refer you to the KUF hearing on the research report, which, for example: The Research Council writes: «From the point of view of the Research Council, which cooperates with all departments, there would have been an advantage if the research report had been even more firmly anchored in the other departments.» Or as the Research Association says: ‘The Research Association therefore calls for action to improve the coordination of public research policy. Better quality and longer-termity is a responsibility for the Government as a whole and must be implemented in individual ministries’ research funding strategies.’ This means that all those who work in the field of research feel that they are under pressure all the time, with different expectations from different parties — and all parties are in the Norwegian government. I think it's important to have a distinction between having an opinion about general structures in departments and actually proposing it. To propose that, I think it is completely wrong to do so, but I would reserve the right to, sail if the committee chairman disagreed, to feel something about coordination, for example. within the government. What the Left has said is that there should have been an innovation and research policy council coordinating the ministries in this field, and it should have been led by the Prime Minister. This is one of the most important areas, because it's about what we're going to live on in the future, and how we're going to survive in the future. It is then important to have these structures in place, and it is important to have an incentive for the ministries to also ensure that that coordination is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e544	I notice that the representative Skei Grande has a very fundamental gap between interfering in how the government organizes its work – more to discuss what would be wise – and formally to promote proposals in the Stortinget. The last one would have been unheard of. The first is interesting about, what to say, the maybe a little early planning of how to organise the Prime Minister's office, and whether it should be discussed in the Stortinget. But it's going to be up to the opposition. I first want to thank the National Audit Office for what I think is a good report. There are, of course, things here that we have a different opinion of, but I think it's an important report. I need it. I have also used it when we have discussed how we are going to work on a long-term research plan, which is going to have a 10-year perspective, and which is the biggest step in the research report we presented to the Stortinget, which is due to be dealt with before the summer. It is to be seen in the context of the research reports which are not sporadic, as the rapporteur said, but which have come every four years. In this respect, of course, the government is also discussing how we, as a government, should work and better coordinate on research policy. It's not basically a matter for Stortinget. I also note that the Committee says that part of what we have explained to the Riksrevision regarding the report, namely that part of the political work, part of the political coordination that takes place in the field of research, is not possible for the Riksrevision to go through. It is a work that is still going on – and it should be a political work. It also highlights the Committee's commitment to the Ministry that the political process is not of what the Riksrevision is looking at and that it therefore becomes 'difficultly measurable in a national audit report'. But I can assure the Storting that of course there is a comprehensive research policy dialogue and cooperation between the different departments. What political action we choose to take for the future is presented to the Storting in the Research Communication, but the Riksrevision's report and the discussion that I see that the Storting has also had here is useful considering how we're going to continue working to follow it up. With regard to the winding-up of the Research Fund, I might think that there are some of the depositors who have a little short memory, because a very important reason to wind up the Research Fund was that what was helping to get a lot of research, and that in a way gave the research effort wings – namely, the Research Fund – became a pinch of foot when the interest on the deposits that were in the Research Fund, meant that we started at minus 600 million in the last few years. kr. That was a very important reason why we have now made this an ordinary price-adjusted budget allocation. Then you always say that you have to be able to have political assessments about how much you might spend, or in other ways bet on research. In the administrative audit, the National Audit Office states that research is increasingly cross-sectoral. I fully agree with that. The Committee also points out that an increasing share of research funding is being used for cross-sectoral research and that this makes coordination even more important. I fully agree with those assessments. I would also like to point out a factor that is moving in the same direction and that makes the need for coordination in research policy increase, and that is the increased internationalisation in research, which further calls for increased coordination. The National Audit Office commends the Ministry of Knowledge for our follow-up to research cooperation with the EU in its report. It is also worth noting, because the government has recently announced that we want to be full members of Horizon 2020, which is the new, major research and innovation programme in the EU. Then coordination becomes even more important. The National Audit Office says that the Research Council’s governance has improved through the establishment of a common target and performance management system. This is also a confirmation of a good coordination approach. We have many tools to ensure good coordination in the field of research. The research message, which has just been presented, will also focus on this in the context of the drug treatment. It is an example of coordination in practice and is one of the most important research policy instruments we have had so far. But now we're putting on a ten-year long-term plan, just to be able to create a framework around how we're going to think priorities, tips and collaboration in the field of research. Political processes also provide for extensive coordination of research policies. In budgetary work, coordination at political level takes place through the ordinary budgetary procedure of the government, the Government's Research Committee, State Secretary Groups and bilateral contacts. These are the most important workshops for policy development and policy decisions, which are, of course, based on the work done in the various departments. Coordination also takes place through the structural aspects of the research system. The Norwegian model with one Research Council is unique in the world context and facilitates a coordinated research and innovation policy. Norwegian applicants thus have one system to deal with, and for foreign actors there is one contact point. It is one of the things that the evaluation also highlights as positive. This means that the Norwegian system appears to be more coordinated than the systems of other countries. However, these are aspects on which the Riksrevision report does not address and thus does not give an overall picture of the overall coordination of research. With regard to the concrete recommendations made by the Riksrevision, there is a great deal of convergence between the Riksrevision assessments and the Ministry’s own assessments. We are considering the follow-up to the specific proposals and have already started to follow-up on some of the recommendations. This applies, for example: the further development of the research council's target and performance management system. Furthermore, we are starting work on a strategy for research cooperation with the EU to ensure clearer objectives and priorities. The Ministry of Knowledge also strengthens cooperation with the sectoral departments on cross-ministerial research strategic cooperation through participation in the work of the Health Care21 strategy. I would also like to mention the work on a long-term plan, which I have already had. A ten-year long-term plan in this area could mean that we have a better way of coordinating research policy, but we will also be able to see the needs for investment in infrastructure and construction, scholarships, study places, etc. in one context. It will be an important instrument. Increased coordination is not an end in itself. Coordination must be an instrument to achieve something else. Norwegian research policy should contribute to a well-functioning research system and it is in this context that coordination is a necessary tool. Nor is it the case that everything in research policy should be coordinated. The existence of competing ideas may be a strength for the research system. Therefore, we must be able to balance in a very good way the need for coordination on the one hand and the need to make the other departments responsible and the need for competing ideas on the other. The Ministry of Knowledge believes that it is appropriate to correct coordination efforts where it throws the most of itself and where there is the greatest need, for example: in research areas that cross the ministerial boundaries. Coordination of research policies takes place along many axes, and coordination in research policy must take into account issues, risks and issues to be addressed. We will further develop our coordination efforts in the field of research. The National Audit Office report together with the evaluation of the Research Council is useful documents in this regard.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e580	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e583	Political coordination within the government is a possible measure to compensate for the sectoral principle here and also for political treatment through the budgets of the United Kingdom. Let me try to problematize this topic with a concrete example. It's a goal for the government to 3 pst. GDP will go to research – 2 of the 3 psts will come from business research. On 8 March, the Minister of Knowledge, together with the Prime Minister, presented the Research Communication, in Bergen, in fact – it was nice – and both of them said to the media that it was the biggest challenge for Norway that we had to get more research into business. My question is then: Where was the Minister of Industry when this was presented? Where are the actions in the Research Communication to achieve this? And why hasn't the Minister of Industry been involved in the research budget debate here in the United Kingdom in the last four years? This indicates a lack of coordination.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e592	I do not agree with that at all, and the question of where the Minister of Industry is at all times, I suggest that the representative of Warloe ask the Minister of Industry. But I totally disagree that this is not a close, important and close cooperation. For example, the tax FUNN and the changes that are now part of the measures announced in the revised national budget for industrial policy are just an example of how we see them in the context. In many other areas, there is also good cooperation. I also believe that much of what we have the opportunity to do better is cooperation between the institutions and business around. It is also one of the things that needs to be raised in the context of the research report.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e599	The representative of Warloe – for a new line.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e602	I use the opportunity that I rarely get to do otherwise, to take a follow-up line on this. I see in the research report that in one area the government is warning a more strategic approach to policy, and in the case of international research cooperation Norway has both within the EU, as mentioned by the Council of State in its statement, and with other countries. Why are no similar strategic efforts and approaches to what all governments, including the Prime Minister, say is the most important thing, namely to get more research into business? That's where the big challenge lies. If the government's objectives are to be met, Norwegian business research needs to triple from today's level – in order to achieve what the government has as its objective. Why not warn a strategic policy in this area – which then includes the Minister of Industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e612	That is because we have a strategic policy in this area. We have a lot of very good tools, SkattenFUNN is one, BIA is another, nutrition PhD is a third – so in this area we have a good policy and close cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Business. I believe that one of the most important challenges here, both in the field of business and perhaps also in the other sectors, is that everyone has to be under the skin that there is a need for increased knowledge and research in their own field of self-interest – not because they are supported by the state or because a minister of knowledge is massing in another department, but because in a knowledge society all the way, in all sectors and in all areas, you have to make sure that you are fully aware of your own knowledge production and acquisition of knowledge produced elsewhere in the world. That's why we have to be able to go this double. Everyone has to look for the best possible knowledge and basis for innovation in their field. We can't support that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e619	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e633	The National Audit Office has been entrusted with the ownership management of the building stock of the university and higher education sectors. The state owns 83 pst. of the property stock of universities and higher education institutions in Norway, and this property stock represents an accounting value of approx. 23.5 B.C.E. kr. The real market value is likely to be much higher. The property is managed in one of two ways, either by the institutions themselves owning and operating the premises, or by the State Building owns and operates, while the institutions rent. On a continuous basis, the Riksrevision study shows that large parts of the building mass are, more specifically, approximately. One-third, is in bad shape. The survey also consistently shows that there are larger maintenance kits in building mass managed by universities and colleges than in the case where State buildings are owned. In the period 2007-2011, there is so little investment in building maintenance that the real value of the building stock declines. For self-employed buildings, it is the responsibility of the board to ensure that the values of the community are not lost in poor maintenance of the building stock. It is a clear governance responsibility to ensure the proper and proper maintenance of the part of the building stock itself. However, the Committee stresses that the Ministry of Knowledge has the overall responsibility to ensure that the boards manage their properties properly. In the property stock managed by State Buildings, maintenance is consistently slightly better than in the self-contained buildings. Nevertheless, there is sufficient doubt that current rentals are sufficient to ensure future values, and it is important that the rental level is set so that the necessary maintenance is still carried out also for this part of the building stock. In this case, the Committee has adapted itself to the new form of the national audit reports, by making recommendations. That's a good development. In this way, the Committee has summarised some of the contents of the recommendations of the National Audit Office by making a proposal for a decision asking the Ministry of Knowledge more actively that universities and colleges managing their own buildings have good property management. In one area, the Committee has separated the law on the matter. The party of progress, the Christian People's Party and the Left have gathered on a special note where one points out that these parties have a certain understanding that the governments of universities and colleges that manage their own building masses are struggling with a limited economic space for action. Understanding also includes the challenge of prioritising maintenance while at the same time facing strict requirements for research and education prioritisation. The Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left consider it necessary to improve this economic space in order to give the Ministry of Knowledge a real opportunity to operate more active governance and follow-up of the institutions. This drawee also considers that such an economic space could contribute to increased accountability of the board of directors of the institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e650	The National Audit Office's survey of property management in the university and higher education sectors is for many of us no great surprise, but an expected and necessary confirmation of the signals we have received over a long period of time. This isn't a new phenomenon, we've been doing this for a long time. The alarm messages have been many, and it is then very good to have it confirmed so clearly, and perhaps not least to be confirmed that action needs to be taken quite quickly here. The most worrying thing is that the situation is getting worse in such a known situation. It has many consequences. The case rapporteur was concerned about the need to take care of the values. The second is that, of course, both employees and students are going to use these properties in their daily work. What is worrying is that at some point – when it gets worse as much as it does – it becomes impossible to re-enter. We can't go on like that. Then it's quite clear that it's the self-managing property that's the worst part of it. It's strange in itself. When we talk about the state and the state, but organized in two different ways, it should be that one followed up and learned from one another – when one does it very much better than the other. There is a lack of dialogue and a lack of complete thinking. We can't have some government business doing the job in a good way, while the other part does the exact same job in a much worse way. It is true, as the rapporteur pointed out, that there are some people here who point to the space for action, and the space for action in the university and higher education sectors is, of course, clear that there is a reduction. But the room for action in this case only comes into play when you have a system for how to use the room for action you might have. That's what concerns – that you have so much lack of control. We see that in the individual organization there is no priority for the management of the property stock. It is obvious that there is a lack of competence or knowledge and attention to the building mass and the lack of building mass, there will be a lack of and, at best, random effort to correct what needs to be done. There is no doubt that when it comes to the issue, the Department must take responsibility for addressing this situation. Even though this has been known in various forms throughout the time that the current government has had its rudder, it is quite clear that this has not been central to the governance dialogues with the institutions and in the letters of allocation. The purpose and intention of the study was to find out whether the property management was good and appropriate. We've got a clear answer to that: in one part of government it's pretty good, but in the other part it's not good and appropriate property management. It's also strange to see that once we've been shown that there are no systems of knowledge of the property stock in the institutions, there are, however, clear forms of what is not satisfactory in the same building mass. It might provide a basis for a self-assessment of how they can know it so clearly when they don't have systems for it, and I'm assuming that it can be followed up. It is such that we from Stortinget have called for a plan for how to rectify this delay that has been pointed out, and it is good that we can now expect action for further management of the properties. There are three-four things that I expect the Council of State to grasp and confirm in terms of further action. All those responsible for property stock must have knowledge of their current situation and must have systems to capture it. State buildings do this in a good way and have good reporting systems. The others must be able to learn from this. Here the state must learn from the state; here one must share the good experience and the good systems. It should be a simple matter to transfer that knowledge. Then the ministry must be clear on this in its dialogue with the institutions and in its letters of allocation that property management is so important for the three reasons mentioned. This is taking care of values. Many of these buildings have values far beyond their daily value in use and are to be preserved. It's important for the employees, and it's important for the students. This also applies to the quality of those who are going to use the buildings. Here must be a safe continuous follow-up, and then it's exciting to see how we're going to take back the aftermath that's now come. There is also a need for a concrete action plan. It will be exciting to see how the Department and the Council of State will follow up the clear recommendations of this study. We're looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e669	Contrary to the case of the National Audit Office and the municipal administration, this is a fairly transparent case. It is fairly simple, it is not a great surprise that emerges, and it is a basis for action. What is the main point of a unanimous committee is that the Committee finds it critical that the real value of the building stock is reduced over time due to the lack of maintenance of educational institutions with maritime management ownership. There are no weaknesses in the management information to ensure the value-reserving maintenance that is the main problem — navigation if it is a challenge — but there is simply a prioritisation of scarce money between mainly people versus construction and equipment. This is very demanding, and there is nothing new – I don't think any parties in this room should say that it has been especially better than others. To that I have lived so long and seen so many barley that I have reason to say so. Furthermore, the organisational model that we have makes it pretty good in the cases where State Building owns. I think Stadsbygd should take credit for that. I think State Building in many cases is doing a good job. We'll see that when we're around looking at the institutions. They're gonna need a lot of credit for that. So we're talking about those institutions where you're so-called maritime administrators. What's at the heart is how the maritime institutions manage to spend money on their scarce budgets for rent. The National Audit Office’s recommendation is that an internal rental scheme be designed in such a way as to provide greater financial predictability in order to ensure value-reserving maintenance. The Council of State says that this can be an appropriate instrument to increase governance of educational and research areas, but also for provision for maintenance. I expect the Council of State was careful there. There was a lot more in that statement than there is something you can do. This is something the Council of State takes responsibility for in the light of the unanimous remark. What is stated in our note is that the internal rental arrangements must be designed in such a way that, if necessary, the rental needs to be increased accordingly in order to ensure the necessary future maintenance. ‘If necessary’ stands for me as a reasonable objective amount — the objective basis for which it is based. Here we are talking about both value-reserving maintenance and what is very demanding, namely the authority requirements that make older buildings need to be reconstructed with the enormous costs it requires. There is no reason to believe that government's requirements for buildings will be lower in the future than they are today. Therefore, the internal rental has to take that into account. It has to be included in the rent that these institutions have to set aside. On the basis of the proposal made by a unanimous committee, we are talking about the fact that in practice one will restrict the economic space of the board of directors of these institutions, so that they must give priority to value-preserving maintenance higher than today. That's the nucleus. It's going to be more of a fixed point. There will be a provision that will have to be taken in the same way as one from the Ministry of Finance, which will consistently adjust its budgets on the basis of different orders or decisions taken. This will therefore lead to a stronger governance requirement for maritime education institutions. The space for action is becoming a bit more modest, but it is absolutely necessary to avoid a situation where maintenance is neglected and public expenditure is far greater than is necessary. These are relatively simple issues, but there are at the seventh and last questions about the prioritisation of scarce financial resources, and then one must have resolute, practical, action-oriented board members in those institutions who know that this is central and do not continue as it is now for the maintenance to be neglected.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e684	I can't wait to make a comment to the representative Lundtegen when he says he lived a long time and saw a lot of barley. That's what I've done since then, and when I look around the main hall, I see that there are several of us! Some of what is not just a challenge for this sector, but too many sectors, is maintenance-related performance. It's very simple that what gives air under the wings, pictures in the leaves and the kind that it is when you can cut strings and build new ones. It stands and shines for the future, while maintenance work, which is perhaps most visible when it is not done, is a major challenge to get higher performance around. We have the report from the National Audit Office to help us get to it in the field of higher education and the university sector. Let me say a little bit more about that. It is a report that addresses key and important issues related to property management at universities and higher education institutions. It is we in the Ministry of Knowledge who have the overall responsibility for the building mass managed by the educational institutions themselves. We have eight self-managing institutions in the sector, and the National Audit Office's comment on property management is mainly linked to these schools. I recognize that we have a challenge in lifting the technical status of the buildings of state universities and colleges. Institutions also need functional and flexible facilities that are well adapted to current and future education and research. There has been an accumulation of maintenance and cost needs in the sector, and we need to find the solution to that in the coming years. Institutions manage a significant and complex building stock that is demanding to be cared for. The self-government institutions also have a high proportion of older and sheltered buildings. Of ca. 1 200 buildings are at the base of 300 buildings proposed for peace or protection by other means. Older sheltered building masses are demanding to upgrade to functional and time-consuming areas corresponding to today's construction requirements, forms of teaching and learning, and development and research needs. In addition, we are still facing cost-intensive changes in government requirements, such as: energy use, universal design and fire safety. I want to follow up on the National Audit Office's report in several ways. An action is to improve governance and contact with the sector in this area. The Ministry of Knowledge will ensure that institutions have the necessary management information and long-term maintenance plans. This is mentioned in the year’s letter of award and will be the subject of the etat management meetings. In addition, the Ministry and the sector will discuss the maintenance challenges in their own meetings. I have expectations that the self-managing institutions will continue to work to get better data for governance and planning. I would also like to evaluate the internal rental system of self-managing schools. The evaluation may provide useful knowledge on the functioning of the scheme today and on the development of internal rentals as a tool for prioritising means of maintenance. The government has launched several rehabilitation projects to help improve the status of the sector. The revised national budget for 2013 proposes a start-up grant for the rehabilitation of the University Museum in Bergen. Rehabilitation of the centre buildings at the University of Oslo is in full swing and will be completed by the end of 2014/2015. Institutions tend to be faced with the prioritisation of funding for core education and research and investment in buildings. Maintenance has often lost that fight in the past, but we see that the institutions are able to set aside funds for maintenance, and there are many who do a good job. Let me draw up the University of Oslo, which is one of the institutions that have major challenges in this field. In recent years, the University itself has carried out extensive rehabilitation work on the building of Preclinical Odontology, the PO building, and the Realfachsbibliote på Blindern, as well as the rehabilitation of Tøen Hauptgård. However, these measures are not sufficient to cover the suspensive effects. The self-management institutions do not have enough resources to manage all maintenance work within their existing budgetary frameworks. If institutions are to use significantly more of the budget for maintenance and upgrade, it may be at the expense of other tasks. It's just as the representative Lundtigen says, here's a question of how to manage their funds. In comments on the report, I have pointed out that state buildings and self-government institutions have different economic conditions. State buildings have the means to depreciate and reinvest again and can therefore ensure good condition of their buildings in the years in which they are to be used. The self-management institutions do not have the means to reinvest in buildings in a similar way. New construction and total rehabilitation must be carried out as own construction projects, and it is a demanding process to get through new projects. It is a challenge for maintenance planning — in the short and long term — that there is uncertainty about when new buildings can start and when they can be completed. That is why institutions are often faced with a rather difficult choice. The priority is 200-300 million. SEK for building renovations that you know are going out to date in a few years, and how are you going to deal with this until you have a new building in place? I can take one example, and it's about the building mass we have today at Blinder – laboratories, etc. – in relation to the plans we have for a new Life Science Center to lie up against the Rikshospitalet. This is going to be a fantastic new building, but now you have pretty out-of-date premises, and what do you do with them in the meantime? That is the kind of problem you often face. I hope we can see these things in a larger context when we get this long-term plan in place from a decade's perspective. There it is possible to imagine that a person is getting a better predictability in this area. I'm taking with me the Riksrevisions report. It helps put the spotlight on some of the challenges that we are very aware of, that we have, which is about the aftermath of the maintenance of buildings at universities and colleges. And I'm going to use the National Auditor's report for everything it's worth, in all budgetary dragonfights ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e719	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e733	I think it is good to start this fifth national audit report case in Stortinget today by saying a little about that we have witnessed a certain criticism of the Riksrevision in winter and in spring. There have been previous government councils and there have been former members of the government who have criticized the Riksaudition for doing a job that is ‘not particularly valuable’, which provides ‘cracked profits’, that it is ‘detailed’ and that the national audit reports do not really contribute much. That's why I think it's good that we now have three national audit reports behind us, where the state councils have each and every time agreed with the committee that the Riksrevision report has been important. The state councils have said that this is important in their work, and lastly we have even received such little recognition that the national audit reports can be used in the budgetary discussions of the government. I think it is important to note this, both for those who criticize – both inside and outside this house – and also because the reports of the National Audit Office play an important role in the follow-up to democracy. There was probably only one government council today that had not benefited very much from the national audit report, and it was the State Council of Liv Signe Navarsete, but I'm not sure it was the fault of the national audit report. The National Audit Office carried out a survey in the years 2006 to 2012 to determine whether adequate provision is made for young people entitled to secondary vocational training to receive vocational training in a high-quality enterprise. About half of the secondary students take vocational education. It's also in this direction of study that we can talk about non-advantages from higher education. Absence from the general professions is very, very small, but in the professional disciplines there is no significant increase. The normal course of vocational studies is two years in school and two years in the company. However, there is no requirement for apprenticeship space, and it is therefore possible to offer the entire course of training at school. There is also a certain degree of other options for adaptation in the course of the study. The National Audit Office points out that there is too little access to apprenticeships and that it may have implications for the number of vocational training providers. The absence of secondary education has been an important political issue since the adoption of Reform 94, and it is a fact that too many students fall out of training in the course. The national audit has also revealed weaknesses in the state follow-up to supervision, the availability of governance information and the management of curricula. State responsibilities include primarily the responsibilities of the County Board of Supervisors, the responsibilities of the Directorate of Education for the management of curricula and general access to governance information. The National Audit Office also points out that apprenticeships and county councils do not comply with the provisions of the Training Act on Quality Assurance and Continuing Vocational Training. Let me make it very explicit that it is the county that is responsible for ensuring access to apprenticeship places and for approving training establishments. The study thus moves in this area in the border country for what the Ministry of Knowledge can bear the real responsibility for, but the Ministry will always have the task of ensuring the overall framework to which the county has to deal. However, the Committee stresses that such overall responsibility does not detract from the clear implementation responsibilities of the county council. It is primarily in the direction of the county council's criticism when the National Audit Office's investigation points to the lack of reporting and the lack of follow-up by the county councils to educational establishments in order to ensure that the apprentices are granted their rights. There are different systems in many county municipalities, and it is critical that several county municipalities have not prioritised the establishment of a satisfactory system for the follow-up of apprenticeships. It is serious when the National Audit Office considers that there is doubt as to whether or not the individual apprentice is being granted his/her rights. Then there's reason to stress that there's a big difference between county municipalities. Some people do this in a much better way than other county municipalities. However, criticism of the state level of lack of control and follow-up through supervisory activities can be addressed. Annual joint supervision is carried out in the field of training and, during the period 2006-2011, no such supervision has been carried out on the subject of vocational and vocational training. Only one self-initiated supervision by the counties has been carried out during the period, with the subject of vocational training. Although it is a county responsibility to ensure access to apprenticeships, it is necessary and important to cooperate widely in order to provide as much training as possible in the enterprise. There is no doubt that company training affects the motivation of the individual student. It is therefore positive when the State and the social partners have concluded a cooperation agreement to increase the number of approved apprentice contracts by 20 pst. by 2015. At the same time, the public has a different responsibility, because it is a fact that municipalities, county councils and state are too poor to take in apprentices themselves in important welfare disciplines. This work must also be reinforced by the fact that the various parts of the administration are engaged in taking responsibility by including apprentices. This unanimous and very good attitude is taken into account for any debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e761	Vocational training is a central part of the education system and must provide the best possible reassurance to young people in the face of the labour market that awaits them. A relevant and professional vocational training contributes to the completion of a number of courses and is crucial in the fight against drop-outs in secondary education. The two closing years of business are the key to successful vocational training. Knowledge of the different parts of the education system is necessary to see what works and what needs to be improved in order to achieve more successful results. The National Audit Office’s examination of vocational training in the company provides us with valuable insight into the functioning of this final phase of vocational training. The report brings forward some findings which nevertheless give rise to concerns and concerns. The National Audit Office clearly states that access to apprenticeships is not good enough and that this increases the risk of students not completing vocational and vocational training. I record that the Ministry of Knowledge in its reply to the National Audit Office refers to the concluded social contract. I would like to draw attention to numbers from the Education Directorate, which show that on December 1, 2012, the last harvest, there were a total of 24,211 primary applicants for a place of study, and that 7,714 of these did not receive an offer for a place of study. We are a society with a large and partly excruciating need for skilled labour, and then we have to make a lot more effort to generate more companies that can take on the responsibility for training it is to be a learning business. That being said, it becomes clearer and clearer that the goal of the 20 pst social contract. more apprenticeship places are not ambitious enough. We're going to achieve that goal in 2015, and we now know that the last harvest was for 7 700 potential apprentices without space. It is then quite obvious, as the rapporteur also pointed out, that public enterprises have to assume a greater responsibility for recruiting apprentices. We need to have more ambitious measures for state businesses -- it's pointed out a number of times, and I'll do it again. Here we have big businesses like the State Road Service, the Tax Agency, the Nav and the Hospitals, which have a lot to learn from the Defense. In addition, the right has proposed to increase the grant to apprenticeships, which may be a way of stimulating enterprises to see that they have the opportunity to assume this responsibility. In this situation, where we lack so many teaching places, I think it is very worrying that the State Training Office proposed in the State Budget presented in the autumn of 2012 will only be able to provide its first apprentices in 2014, i.e. two years later. Why is it not possible to set up this office earlier when there is such an urgent need to bring up steam and the pace of communication also from State educational centres? National authorities have the primary responsibility for vocational training, but it does not harm the active support of national authorities for their work. It is a fact that non-response varies widely from state to state, and that there are considerable differences between educational programmes as well. This also underlines that national authorities are ‘hands on’ to allow more students to complete the course they started, and most people, I believe, intend to obtain a letter. The National Audit Office states that the central authorities have not had sufficient knowledge and systematised the follow-up of the professional content of vocational training by county councils and educational establishments. This underpins the importance of putting in place good tools to ensure the sharing of experience and to facilitate reporting to educational establishments. The quality assurance of apprenticeships is central to ensuring that apprentices are effectively granted their training rights. Good follow-up of apprenticeships is important to ensure that apprentices receive the maximum benefit of their apprenticeship and are best equipped on the day they go out and apply for their first job, and it is important to ensure that the apprentice is, of course, also best prepared for the degree to be awarded. I myself had the pleasure of meeting car apprentices in Haugesund last autumn, and was shown a very good ICT-based tool for systematically pursuing skills goals and feedback to the apprentices. I hope that such good tools can spread to car professionals and apprentices not only in Rogaland, but also in the whole country. Here it is definitely not important to sit and invent the wheel separately, but that you actually get to systems that effectively ensure that you share the kind of innovation, which is – I think – to the strength of the student and the apprentice, who received ongoing feedback, and who had a good insight into where you were looking, and where you were in line with what was expected progress, but not least for the company, who felt secure that there was a system that ensured that you had an overview, and that you could see where you were lying in the loop. The findings of the National Audit Office are reflected in an image showing the need for action to strengthen the professions. The right has repeatedly made proposals aimed at helping more people to choose and complete vocational training. Unfortunately, the proposals have been met with what you could say is a cold shoulder from the government parties. But we see that in Meld. St. 20, which is currently being discussed in the Education Committee, has the government happily, I say, accepted that quite a few of the proposals that have been promoted by the Right were sensible proposals, so that the Storting should now be able to adopt them this spring. It's a serious warning when 19 p.m. by the training offices and 25 pst. by educational establishments, the objectives of competence in the curriculum are considered to be of little relevance to training. Professionals know best where the shoe prints, and what knowledge is needed to master the profession. Then it is only important to stress once again that a relevant and professional vocational training contributes to increasing the motivation of the students and to the completion of the education. Therefore, it is also important to proceed with the revision of the training and education programmes, which are probably not well enough today in line with the industries to which they are going to train. I have noticed that in its response to the Committee, the Council of States has highlighted New GIV as a central measure to strengthen its implementation. But the problem is that the part of the New GIV that is committed to youth should have been inserted much earlier. It is too long to wait until after Christmas in the 10th grade when we now have reports telling us that the students who fail and who do the worst on national tests, for example. In 8th grade, the students you see are the ones that wear the most when you get to the 10th grade graduation and are going to be caught by New GIV. You might not have to be a big fortune-teller to realize that students with 8th grade problems will have growing problems beyond high school if you don't put help as early as possible. It is neither a well-adapted training nor a good experience for students to go through large parts of high school until they get the help they need, which will equip them to master secondary education. My appeal to the State Council is that you have to go through the New GIV measures, and then you have to make sure that these are measures that can benefit students at the earliest possible time in high school, and not wait until after Christmas and shippers in the 10th grade, because we see that it does not give the results you might want.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e791	The next speaker is Mr Hallgeir H. Langeland, who has a speaking time of up to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e794	Langeland can promise not to take advantage of its full speaking time. The council will probably come back to the sibling we now heard from the Right, because it is obvious that they themselves have forgotten that they did very little with this matter when they were in position. But now it's actually happening a lot, and one has now submitted the big message that Aspaker mentioned. A number of measures are proposed when it comes to improving the situation, in which the Right in the treatment is likely to be in agreement, including: increase the number by 20 pst. and to have a more custom training. The reason why I take the word is actually to say hello at home. When the Riksrevision presented his report, he paid great attention to the fact that there was one state that stood out and did a good job. It was Rogaland. There is a good cooperation with the trade union movement, the business community, the training of adults and the political environment to put apprenticeships in place. The report is not what I am about to do, especially, the Dalane high school, which has now created a new line for a forward-looking job: windmill operator. It's a new line with the new needs that we've tapped into new renewable energy. I note that the case spokesperson does not want to move forward the state. I think it's very tricked us as a control committee, if someone does a good job and gets it pointed out by the National Audit Office, that we also follow it up from the Stortinget's side, so that we also criticize the municipalities that don't. There's the challenge for Aspaker. Rogaland is run by, among others, Right now, and they've done a job. But there are many other states that haven't done the job they're supposed to be, which is right-handed. So that's where the Right can travel to its own and get the county councils going with a real job linking up with the apprenticeship system. I also registered that the Minister of Knowledge was at the Godalen Secondary School. What I saw they did there was try different new things, just to meet the need for less theory and more practice – because that's where the decline in Norway comes from. It is not at least my experience as a special teacher in the youth school that teaching was too theoretical and too little practical. So there's a school that shows a way for others. Then it's just to encourage all the parties in the hall: Grip embraces your own county council – or your own municipality, for that matter's sake. In Sandnes, we have a special rule, including: SV and the Progress Party in position. But one of the demands that SV put forward in the 2013 budget constellation was simply to spend more money on apprentices. This is what the municipality of Sandnes is doing, and so can other municipalities. So go home and put pressure on the municipality and on the county council.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e809	I would like to support the boast that many of the high schools in Rogaland get, and the job done there in terms of providing more apprenticeship places. They're doing great. Many other counties also work very well and systematically in this area, and there has been a completely different focus on the professions and the need that we as a society have for more people with professional and bachelor letters, and how much mutual benefit we will have of the individual's ability to succeed in life by taking a professional letter and completing, and our need for employment in the future. The new GIV cooperation is a systematic cooperation between the counties, the Directorate of Education and the Ministry of Knowledge in order to be able to achieve a better implementation in higher education, where all the counties have to take part in that responsibility. The representative of Aspaker is right in saying that early efforts are crucial in training. That's why we're very focused on it from 1st grade. We know that if someone has a small problem with e.g. reading in 1st grade, and you're quickly in place to help solve the little problem instead of growing up to be a big problem, we've achieved a lot. I learned one thing when I came to the Ministry of Knowledge, and it was the following slogan: It is never too late with early effort. This is because when you discover that 14 to 15-year-olds can have some significant knowledge gaps that make them have bigger challenges in completing secondary education, we can't say that you are 14 to 15 years old, it's too late. At that time, we take action there — and early action — and think that at some point we will be able to prevent the problems that some young people bring with them to their youth. Now we take the experience we have from the New GIV, with us when we make a systematic follow-up training scheme for all secondary schools throughout Norway. For the autumn we start with 250 secondary schools to receive school-based classroom management, reading, writing and billing – all teachers, the entire classroom, three semesters. In this way, we need to raise knowledge so that we can use some of the methods we have had in New GIV – with good luck – from the first day of youth: working more practically and differently and getting more young people to succeed. As the President will quickly understand: if I don't stop this talk now, the 30 minutes will be spent, but I'll try to stick to the Riksrevision report. It has important findings that complement the picture and the work we do in connection with the big picture that will also be dealt with before the summer, Meld. St. 20 On the straight. Maximum changes in professional training of 20 years are carried out. This is because we want many more to be able to complete and succeed. The community needs it. We see that we need significantly more professional correction in the professions. We're already in the process of doing that. We now have FYR schools in each state. They're just a knowledge base for this, and we see it in a context. In the years that I have been responsible for this, I have been very concerned about how we will get a more practical and relevant training in all stages, but not least how we will ensure that more people succeed and take the letter and the letter. So I'm glad we're going to deal with this before summer. The National Audit Office’s report covers the period 2006 to 2012 and the focus is the responsibility of county and state authorities for the follow-up of vocational training in the enterprise. It's very crucial for completion and for the quality of the workforce we get, that we have high quality throughout the training cycle. It's like the main emphasis of the apprentices who go to the exam is, and there's a good indication that the quality of the training is pretty good. But we still have to set bigger targets. Together with all the employers’ and employees’ organisations, we have signed a social contract to provide apprenticeships for more apprentices. These social contracts oblige the parties to take a number of measures. The goal is for the number of approved apprenticeships to increase by 20 pst. from the end of 2011 until 2015. It's an ambitious goal, and we're on the right track, but the need is great. Many of those who start professionally have weak basic skills, have knowledge gaps, and have little motivation to work with subjects such as mathematics, Norwegian and English. Through the New GIV scheme, the Ministry of Knowledge has launched a project to make training in these very common subjects more relevant and more vocational. In the context of the New GIV project, there has also been a strengthening of the competence of teachers. The evaluation shows that teachers are satisfied with the professional content and with their own benefits from schooling — both the work of the New GIV students and other teaching. Support has been provided for retraining and hospitation. Hospitation schemes mean that vocational trainers can insuscitate in enterprises for professional updating and development. Similarly, the system provides opportunities for instructors in apprenticeships to hospitate at schools, and here we see that it can be a very important knowledge development to increase the quality at all stages. The evaluation of this scheme shows increased professional competence for teachers and improved cooperation between school and business, and it has positive ring-fences for other actions, such as: how to use a project for immersion. As I have already mentioned, it is the professional and professional training that gets the most attention in this big message – Report. St. 20 for 2012–2013, Straight ahead. Here the Ministry of Knowledge proposes that we, together with the social partners, among other things. shall enhance the quality and relevance of professional and professional training by reviewing the structure of offers and shall provide students with previous introductions to the professions by opening up the sharing of Vg2 joint programme subjects. It is also proposed to develop several alternative models for the so-called 2+2 model, i.e. mainly the school as a learning venue for the first two years, and mainly the working life as a learning venue for the last two years. Different exchange models can make us better meet business needs and motivate students better. We are already in the process of following the recommendations of the National Audit Office, to assess improvement measures taken by government in the field of vocational and vocational training. The National Audit Office mentions supervision as a possible response to challenges in vocational and vocational training. I would like to stress that using risk assessments and dietary benefit assessments, we need to give priority to some areas rather than others when looking at supervisory issues. It's a dilemma we're always facing. I would like to stress that the objective of improving the quality of vocational and vocational training can also be achieved through other instruments, including: through the ongoing work we have in strengthening the governance information in this area. In particular, I can highlight efforts to increase the use of the national apprenticeship survey. Here is a proposal for the mandatory use of the survey at consultation during these days, and work is being carried out on the establishment of a new national quality assessment system for vocational and vocational training. We expect that system to be operational in 2015. It's a slightly different approach to achieving some of the same objectives that the Riksaudition is concerned with. We also have ongoing work to improve the statistical basis for assessing developments in secondary education in general and in vocational education and training in particular. I would like to stress that state supervision as a tool can be important, but that is not enough to ensure more apprenticeships. That's what we only achieve in the dialogue between the business community and the states. It is anchored in this social contract, and I have good cooperation with the Vocational Training Cooperation Council, SRY, and the technical advice on this. As a concrete follow-up to the Riksrevision study, the Ministry will among other things: present the study for KS. In cooperation with the KS, the Department will assess how best to follow up the county municipalities in order to comply with the provisions of the Training Act on quality assurance and follow-up of apprenticeships. In this context, I have noticed that the Control and Constitutional Committee believes that control and follow-up are a prerequisite for ensuring the rights of students and apprentices, and that it requires an increased focus on the control and follow-up of vocational and vocational training. The Committee also states that the Ministry can contribute to increasing the control frequency in the countries where the challenges are greatest. In this respect, it is important to note that the National Audit Office’s investigation also shows that several county municipalities have a sound system for assessing the compliance of apprenticeships with the requirements of the Training Act and follow-up of apprenticeships closely. As relevant as supervising vocational and vocational training, I believe it is now important to disseminate the experience of these counties, so that counties who strive to establish an appropriate and sound system can learn from how others have done so. So that's the core of the New GIV collaboration. I would also like to highlight the ongoing efforts of the government authorities to support and guide the county councils on the law and regulation in the field of education. As the Committee points out, it is important that the objectives of the curricula are relevant. Professional and vocational training is based on close cooperation between the social partners and the education and training authorities, which is important in order to ensure high quality training. Through professional advice, the parties shall be able to provide advice and input at any time on the content of their curricula. The mandates of the Scientific Councils established in the spring of 2012 focus on the Councils working to develop the quality of the subjects and to see trends and trends that meet the future needs of the workforce, individuals and society on the basis of the existing needs. The Ministry of Knowledge will also forward the Riksrevisions report to SRY and the Technical Councils. We will address this in our discussions with the social partners and when we consider the need for changes in curricula. We will also identify the equipment situation in higher education in order to ensure better quality in training. I am very interested in raising the standard – and how many are successful – in this area. That is why this report from the Riksrevision is important when we are now to ensure that more students complete their diplomas and certificates. They serve it, and it serves society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e855	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e858	I want to go back to these apprentices -- or lack of learning places. What the Riksrevision points out is that the education of the students who start a professional course is not completed until they are able to attend the course. I mentioned and showed that in the autumn of 2012, just a few months ago, there were as many as 7,700 students who didn't get what they thought they were going to get -- almost a third of those who applied for apprenticeships, that is, 24,000 in the first place. So the council says it's an ambitious goal to get 20 pst. more places of learning up to 2015. So that means you've written off that large parts of these 7,700 actually get a lesson. Does the Council of State really think that there is a sufficient objective, or will the content of the social contract be renegotiated in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e871	We're doing a good job of escalating the number of learning places. I have good cooperation with the various partners in this field. I'm very concerned that we're going to have a high level of ambition here all the time. Now we can get a few more challenges, because this exchange model, which I hope many states will take advantage of, may require that we have some other ways of working with the workforce than the 2+2 model that is in today's apprenticeship system. So I'm very concerned that in the message we've been promoting, we've also proposed a year of preparation, or half a year's training of those who are on their way into the classroom. For some of the apprentices who don't get a place to learn, they have a lot of absence and very poor grades, and the work life doesn't think of them as current apprentices. Therefore, we have to make sure that these are better prepared to be good apprentices.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e878	I very much agree with the Council of State that we must look for other alternative solutions for the apprentices we are unable to provide a place to study. That means you probably have to find other types of apprenticeships, that is to say get a larger variety of apprenticeships than the ones we have today, and you can imagine different exchange models. But what are the proposals contained in the communication that are supposed to in some way trigger other types of enterprises, or what should be the basis for us to get this number up? We're talking about a lot of thousands of places, if we're going to take seriously those who start professionally, actually get an offer to go up to the letter, even if it happens in a different way to the traditional course.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e885	I do well to hear an encouraging call from the representative of Aspaker, and I do not think that day is coming, but I am working on it evenly, and I am going to get more apprenticeships. It's historic that we have a social contract in which the parties undertake to increase the number of apprenticeship places by 20 pst. That's a good starting point. Then we have a lot of interesting research related to this big message. We have e.g. studies showing that there is no significant difference between the apprenticeships taking in apprentices and those not doing so. Ergo, there's something about the traditions here that makes us feel like we should be in touch with a lot more companies to get them to become apprentices. Many counties worked very well, with close contact with the business community in this area. In many areas, we have to make sure that we get the number of apprenticeship places up, but I also think that we have a challenge that we have to tackle, and that is to prepare the apprentices better. Some of the apprentices who don't get apprenticeship are apprentices who work hard to accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e895	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e903	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e911	During the debate, the representative, Anders Anundsen, tabled two proposals on behalf of the member of the Presidency, Mr Öyvind Korsberg. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The new third sentence of the fifth paragraph of Article 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy shall be replaced by the following: any proposal made in connection with the examination of the State budget may be re-examined later in the same Grand Duchy.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The fourth and fifth sentences of the second paragraph of Section 73 of the Rules of Procedure shall be replaced by the following: Questions to a Question Time must be submitted no later than 1 p.m. 12.00 last Monday before the Questionnaire. If a Monday falls on a public holiday, the deadline for submission is at 0 p.m. 14.00 of the previous working day.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-16.ana.ud2367e1561	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for a word? Before the President cancels the meeting, the President will warmly congratulate tomorrow. Have a good May 17th, everyone. - The meeting's been cancelled.
