ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e32	The President of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, Jean-Claude Mignon, is on an official visit to Norway. He is present here today, at the gallery, and it is a great pleasure to wish him and his delegation welcome to the Size! We hope that they will have an interesting and pleasant stay here with us, and that the visit will contribute to even closer cooperation between the Storing and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. [[Acclamation in the hall]] The representative of Christian Tybring-Gjedde will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e39	On behalf of the major representatives of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Kenneth Svendsen, Ida Marie Holen, Robert Eriksson and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative on income policy cooperation through state participation in the wage settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e44	The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e47	On behalf of Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Henning Skumsvoll, Siri A. Meling, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Trine Skei Grande, Borghild Tenden and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to include small power plants in a transitional Green Certificate scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e52	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e55	On behalf of the major representatives of Øyvind Håbreek, Dagrun Eriksen, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for measures to combat modern slavery.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e60	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e74	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e83	The field of archives as a policy area is very important, but has so far received little political attention. It was therefore with great expectation that we received the first biggest message about the archive area. The communication is quite adequate for state archives institutions, and discusses the relationship between them in an insightful way. There is not much political disagreement here either. The disagreement between the political parties is more about what is not and that is missing, not only from the opposition on the Stortinget, but also from large sections of the trade unions in this area. In particular, this applies to the creation of archives and to the private and municipal parts of the archive field. Unfortunately, the reporting of archives does not indicate an offensive policy in this area, nor does it indicate an increase in funds or an increase in efforts. I do not want to go into the positions of the individual parties in the Committee's proceedings here, but assume that the parties present their views themselves. So I will continue to explain the Right View, but I think it is nice to note that the bourgeois parties are largely united in this setting. Most associate the archives with being stockpiled for historical source material — a source of our collective memory. In this context, of course, the major state archives play a central role, but also the municipal archives and the many private archives are very important for the stories of the future. It is therefore disappointing that the message is largely restricted to this field. The poor health of private archives has been a topic for many years. Important archives, for example from businesses or local associations, have disappeared or are in danger of being destroyed, not because they are uninteresting, but because there is no one who will take responsibility for them, unless they have resources to work with them. In the annual government budget proposals, the right has proposed increases to the Landslag for local and private archives, and the position of the private archives was part of the debate when ABM development was closed. It would therefore not have been too much to expect that the notification would go significantly deeper into what responsibility the state would assume here, and how the government sees that the private archives will be preserved for the future. There was also an expectation in the air to strengthen this work. Instead, clear signals have now been given that the archival work of the Norwegian Cultural Council, which after the completion of the ABM development is the responsible body, should be scrutinised to cover preferably the archive work of the museums. If these signals are to be followed, this means that important parts of the archive work are excluded. There is then reason to remember that there are little funds in general and really get elsewhere to go. There is also a lack of archival policy on the right. I think here's the disagreement between the government and the right of the more principleal nature. From the notification, and in particular from previous debates, it is clear that the government does not see the need for an overall strategy for archiving, nor that the State should take overall responsibility for the development of this part of the archive work in addition to that of the archives. Right-wing believes this is a significant weakness. Archiving processes have become demanding in a digitised age with other forms of communication. Are SMS messages to be archived? How does the document capture happen? Is there a need for some general principles, etc.? Lack of interest in archivism, perhaps especially in the municipal sector, means that the archivism message only tells half the story. The relevant professional communities have made numerous contributions during the hearings. Projects and means of development are requested, the testing of new models and working methods are also requested – in short, there is little evidence to suggest any interest in the challenges and opportunities of the modern online community. The National Audit Office's reports on the archives in the municipal sector tell a story that should have been traced. The right sees good archiving as an important part of the development of effective public sector procedures. Thus, the creation of archives is important, not only for users, but also for what is actually left to the afterlife from our time – how our time is actually documented. We had hoped that the archive message would strike out a comprehensive and offensive policy for the archive field. This was not the case, and we can see that there is still a lot of work to be done before the archives area in Norway is well cared for. I'm dealing with the proposal that is also on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e118	The representative of Olemic Thommess has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e121	We all become part of the content of one or more archives from the time we are born, and far into eternity. Eventually there will be many registers, which will contain information about us. It's an incredibly exciting world that exists in the thousands of different public and private archives that we have access to. Well, over the course of life, most of us are searching for information about a lot and a lot. The most common thing is the story of the close things: the place one lives, who our ancestors were. Great effort by engaged people gives the story of Alta. The public through its great censuses gives the story of who our ancestors were. We'll find something in a manual archive, and something's just a keystroke away. In this connection, we were able to read on the Internet last week that hundreds of Norwegian Mormons are working hard to ensure that the Norwegian census of 1875 is also available online. They do because the question of who I am, and where I come from, is also important in a religious sense both for Mormons and others. When applied for in available archives, it can provide both expected and unexpected answers — both to joy and grief. But the history of archives also has its shadow side in a society. The concept of ‘seeing my folder’ does say most of the time about how information about people can also be misused in a democratic country such as Norway. There is no reason to be proud of that part of Norwegian history. There's a lot of interesting reading in the message, both the historical and what we need to look forward to. Much could have been mentioned and should have been mentioned, but summarised I have grasped this wording about what an archive document is: ‘One archive document is a direct, uninterpreted and authentic voice from the past, a testimony to what people did, and how this sets the track. It gives its own closeness to history and opens up for identification with real human beings, real events and real environments in the past.’ But we also need to look forward, which also makes this message visible in a good and clear way. Therefore, the overall objective of the archive policy is to ensure that the archives are kept and made available for posterity, regardless of whether they are in public or private ownership. The objective is clear: it will contribute to a comprehensive evidence across all sectors of society, so that it can fully document society and social development. Ambitiously, a lot of people might say, depending on the eyes that see. But we're going to be honest enough to say that there are many challenges ahead of us, as an overall committee points out in its comments. There are different challenges to different sectors, but a common challenge they all have, and it is the management of digitally created archives. It's not a strange challenge, it's where the archive environments around the world are challenged on a very basic level. How do you define archives in a professionally supported way, but at the same time in an operational way? Technology is changing rapidly and therefore a core question becomes which methods to use to capture and maintain digital documentation over time, in an authentic and accessible form. It is also clear that both legislation and regulations need to be updated in the light of technological developments in the sector. In presenting this Communication, there has been a debate on the concept of ‘archive formation’, as was also the subject of the rapporteur’s intervention. The government has been criticized for endangering the importance of archiving with a hare lab. It is a criticism the majority of the committee does not share. The majority believe that the archival message provides a good indication of the status, main challenges and strategies of archival creation, and therefore there is no need for a separate national strategy to do so. The majority further argue that the proposed strategies for updating and further developing archival law and for developing digital message protection methods and systems will be important in addressing archival challenges. Archiving has been, is and will be important in the government's goals of both purposes and functions for our various archives. Finally, the archives are our common collective memory, which is managed on behalf of all of us. I think this big message does it in a good way. Whether Storting’s speech seat in this context serves as a bridge between past, present and future may well be discussed. But just knowing that everything I've said from this pulpit here today becomes part of the Storting Archive in text, sound and image and thus part of the story, and that for everything I know, it can be of interest to someone in the future, is both exciting and challenging.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e145	This is an important and exciting message, as several have said before. Why is it important? Well, it's important because we have a democracy to take care of. It is important that transparency also works for everyone. We have made some specific comments in the attitude, where we point to some challenges, and this is about non-discrimination. There we have set an example of the municipal lawyers in Oslo and Bergen, who want their own rules on how to record, while the municipal lawyers in Tromsø, Trondheim and Sandefjord lead in the same way as they do in the rest of the municipalities. We can't understand why someone has to have their own rules that make it hard for us to control and have transparency. Equal journalism for the entire Municipality of Norway we believe is important. If you are a researcher, you are a student, you can apply for free access to archives, where there are also classified documents or protected personal data. If you are a journalist, you often get no and no applications — you don’t get any access at all. If you as a journalist work on a matter for a longer period, over several years, I almost see it as if you're researching, or that you're interested in an area. But you're getting a rejection. Then we think it is important that journalists also have the opportunity to dig deeper into the archives to reveal important issues, to take the community task seriously, and that is what we are seeing over and over again that they can do. It is important that we manage to maintain the gravitating journalism that is important to our democracy. We'll see about that over and over again. Bjørn Westlie in Today's Business is a good example of that, for example. revealed the Norwegian Jewry. It was important for democracy. As we see it, the Vær Varsom poster for journalists is a clue. But don't let old rules be restrictive for journalists to do their community chores. In our special remarks, we also show that we want a strong professional environment in the archive service, and we see that the regional environments are important for this work. So opening the archives to journalists who are digging, we think it's important. We think it is important to treat the municipal lawyers in all Norwegian municipalities in the same way that you treat the rest of the municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e158	Archives are traces of human activity in all areas of society. They document the actions and events that have occurred. They make up our collective memory and document the legal status of society. Archives are therefore a central element of our cultural heritage, while forming a fundamental part of society's infrastructure. The centre party is committed to preserving and continuing our cultural heritage, and a good archival policy is also good cultural policy, as we see it. The overall objective of the government's archival policy is to secure archives with a high cultural value or research value. Another important function is the provision of legal documentation and important administrative documentation. The objective applies regardless of whether the archives are created by state, county or municipal bodies, by private enterprises, organisations or individuals. The centre party will highlight in particular the importance of good eGovernment strategies in the archive area. With all kinds of information available today, both SMS and social media are part of this. We support the Communication’s assessment that there is a strong need for municipal coordination in the field of ICT and fully agree that KS has a special responsibility. We have also noticed that the Directorate of Administration and ICT, Diffi, has given positive signals of cooperation with the National Archives on the intermediate storage of archive data. The centre party believes that it is a very important objective of future archival policy to contribute to the optimal availability of archived material to users – not least to the general public. It's quite interesting to see the interest that various television series have created in finding back to their roots. We in the Center Party believe that future generations will also have such interests. With the vast amount of information we are dealing with and surrounding today, most of us probably believe that it is a matter of course that this should be kept forever – on the digital platforms that exist – but of course it is not. The centre party is therefore concerned that we make good archives to preserve all the valuable information we have in our modern information society. We agree with the considerations of the communication on this and the opportunities offered by digitisation. It is the first time an archival policy is formulated in a Norwegian political document, and it is the first time that the state formulates an archival strategy that equates all sectors of society and that aims to create a comprehensive social documentation. The Archives Communication gives the National Archives a clearer and stronger mandate to design and implement this strategy in cooperation with other relevant actors, and we believe that this is right in the Centre Party. We look forward to the work that the archive message brings with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e175	‘Never before has so many people needed so much knowledge. Our role in democracy requires more of us than that we should use the right to vote." These words aren't mine, but Kåre Willoch's. And they were said at the launch of the new edition of the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia. I want to make the words mine, because they have a lot of what archival policy and archivism are all about: The archives represent our collective memory of society. In addition to the language as a social phenomenon, the archives are much of the basis for technological and social development. They are central sources of understanding our common history and culture. An offensive archive policy is becoming increasingly important in a society that is drowning in a flood of mass-produced information of varying calibres. The Swedish Archives Agency continues to have a dominant position, but the Norwegian archival landscape has become wider and more diverse. There have been a number of institutions working on the conservation and dissemination of municipal, municipal and private archives. The new archive landscape also includes a number of smaller local historical archives and museums and libraries that hold some large private archives collections. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there has now been a big message about the archive sector, and believes that it will be a useful tool in the future to ensure the key functions of the archives. At the same time, we believe that we had made even more of a message that had captured the breadth of the archival landscape, once such a document has been prepared for treatment in the Storting. We lack a greater focus on municipal archives, private archives and the breadth of the challenges facing this sector. The Christian People's Party, together with the Party of Advancement and the Right – the non-socialist parties – participates in a proposal that reads: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a national strategy on how best to address the challenges of archiving, including the challenges of document capture from digital media.’ We see this as a central challenge that needs a national approach, a national strategy. It's interesting to hear that the red-green representatives focus on people's growing interest in seeing themselves in a bigger context and knowing their background and their history. We are eagerly waiting for the Government's big news of biotechnology when we hear the signals from the red-green ones here. But if there's one thing that maybe characterizes our time more than anything else in relation to what the generations before we have experienced, it's a rate of change. The fact that we live in a society that changes faster than you've ever experienced before requires an increased awareness of archives and archivism. As a starting point, I hope the message becomes a tool to stimulate awareness in all sectors of the importance of archiving. But I think, as I said, that we had been more served with even stronger focus, not least on the municipal, local and private parts of the archive landscape.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e203	I don't know if anyone in this room saw a program that started at the NRK yesterday, that was about the forgotten heroes, that we have many who have done great things in Norwegian history, but that we have forgotten. There's a tendency that some of these are women. It's also a trend that they haven't always had the big important positions to get into the state archives. I think it's an interesting introduction to today's debate. I believe that some of the weakness of today's message is that it deals very much with how we at state level should keep track of our papers, but it does not have the overall perspective on how we should take care of our history. Our history is much more complex than keeping order in state archives. It's also to take care of archives that make us not forget the heroes who don't necessarily have formal positions, but who are a female ski jumper in the 1930s – which was mentioned yesterday – or a company founder who works out something that really does and creates both well-being and societal development for the afterlife, or a musician in a village that is part of and builds something that maybe in retrospect really is with and affects Norwegian music history. There are private archives, there are corporate archives and all that can be in a suitcase up on a ceiling, and when people find it and want to take care of it, they don't know how to do it. I disagree with what the Center Party said, that this is the only message. I believe that the first big grab that was done in this was when Valgerd Svarstad Haugland presented the ABM message, which was the first real step towards doing something in this area. That's what I think she should have boasted that she did, but I don't think we get so much further in some important areas in this field. What we're particularly concerned about is what happens to private archives, and where to turn. I have sailed with e.g. Music archives, and you're really wondering where to go when to dispose of a private archive. Who's gonna have it? Where will it be positioned correctly? It's almost impossible for individuals to know today. When you go to institutions, there are a lot of people who want to, but you have little reason to think about where it is right to place it so that someone who is looking for information in that area can actually find it in retrospect. The second thing I think the message is too bad is audio archives, which have no focus, as we read the message. The audio archives contain very much important information and much more important information than we might have in many other types of archives. Here we see that a lot is lost because you don't know how to take care of it. Another major challenge I believe is to have competence in public bodies to take care of important archives. The problem with today's municipal structure is that we have an incredibly large number of very small municipalities that cannot manage to have an archival competence in their municipal administration. There is a lot of other skills you can't have, as you should have, but the municipal structure we have in Norway today makes us lose incredibly important historical information, because in the municipality there is no competence in how to take care of it. In a busy everyday life, it is not the focus, because it is concerned with the production of services today, and not with taking care of neither the history of the municipality nor – based on legal principles – important documents to ensure the legal protection of citizens. There are many heroes who disappear because we don't have good enough archives. We who sit here in this room are probably well referred to by those who sit in front of us, but there are many important things that should have been remembered, that won't be.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e220	Archiving policy is important – mainly because a democratic society depends on having well-functioning archives. That's also why it's been an important part of the cultural promise. Since 2005, the funds for archives have increased by 80 pst. A big message has not previously been submitted to Stortinget, which covers a wide range of archives covering both the state, the municipal and the private sectors. I am therefore proud to present the first shopping message about archives. I am also very pleased that a closely agreed committee joins the proposals in the message. An archive document is a direct, uninterpreted, authentic witness from its time. The archives document the actions and events they are tracked for. The archives are therefore absolutely necessary in a democracy and in a rule of law. Documentation of rights and obligations, decisions and agreements is part of the most important functions of the archives. The documents in the archives guarantee the legal security of individuals and document administrative and legal relations between people and businesses in both the public and private sectors. A hallmark of a democratic society is also the availability of archives for transparency and use. In order for transparency and democratic control of administrations to be effective, we must have good archival procedures and functions. The documents in which one may require access must be recorded and kept so that one can find them again. The archives provide both people and journalists with the ability to follow the regime in the sumanes, and give a critical look at how people and groups have been handled. That's also why we're going to bet on the archival piece. For example, we're adding. emphasis on the importance of a clear record-keeping function for the processing systems. The Riksarchiver has also developed a standard for digital reporting, so that one can handle the digital material in a sufficiently satisfactory way. The revision of archive laws and the inclusion of the private activities that have public functions will not least affect the creation of archives. There are examples of the many things we do to have a holistic view of the entire archive sector, not only the public but also the private – all the material that matters to our common history. The overriding objective of archive policy is to ensure archives with a high cultural value or research value. It is also an overarching objective to ensure legal documentation and important administrative documentation. That objective shall apply irrespective of whether the archives are created by State, county or municipal bodies, by private enterprises, organisations or private individuals. The aim is to contribute to a comprehensive social documentation. Archiving challenges vary from sector to sector. However, the main challenge, the management of digital tax archives, is common to all sectors of society: the strategies and methods to be used to capture and maintain digital documentation of time in authentic and accessible form. It is absolutely crucial how documents are captured, handled and saved in the first phase. An up-to-date regulatory framework and guidelines are needed, and one of the most important strategies is to review and revise the archive law with regulations, so that they are consistent with technological developments. Another challenge is lack of archiving and archiving in the municipal sector, as pointed out by the National Audit Office. The archive is now in progress with an active follow-up of the deficiencies pointed to by the Riksrevision. Among other things, the National Archives are responsible for guiding municipalities in collecting their archives in a satisfactory way. A third major challenge is to build a magazine for paper archives that are already created. State buildings are planning a central depot and national health archive on Tynset. When the project is finished, the government will come back to Stortinget with that matter. A fourth challenge is that far fewer private archives are kept than public archives, and what is preserved is collected less available due to lack of order and cataloguing. The revision of the work area of archival law is important for this, but not least the new task of the National Archives to create a holistic strategy for private archives, and the fact that the Norwegian Cultural Council's support scheme is directed specifically towards the work of the Museums on private archives, for that matter, when we know that one third of the private archives are linked to the museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e244	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e247	We all agree that transparency is important, and good archives are important. We all agree that this is important for democracy. But I was on a topic in my post that concerns the City Attorney in Oslo. Now the municipal lawyer in Bergen is also applying for exemption from archiving. We have equal rules throughout Norway for other municipalities, and it works well for the municipal lawyers in Tromsø, Trondheim, Bærum and Sandefjord to have these rules. Why is the City Attorney in Oslo in a special position, and what will the Council of State answer the City Attorney in Bergen when he applies for the same thing as Oslo, i.e. exceptions to the rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e256	This is how the City Attorney General of Oslo and the Government Attorney have been granted a temporary derogation from the archival regulations. It is important for me to stress that the archive law applies to both of these institutions. It is only the piece of regulation from which they have received a temporary derogation. If it were to be other institutions, e.g. those who the representative Ib Thomsen mentions, come up with similar requests, I'll consider it very concrete. But I would like to stress that I think the general rule should be that one follows both the archive laws and the archive regulations, and that the threshold should be very high because one gets more temporary exceptions from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e263	One of the many concerns raised by the archival communities in the context of this Communication is the entry of the Norwegian Cultural Council as project development measures. It is stated in the message: ‘In this context, it is natural for the Culture Council to correct the private archive support schemes against the museum’s professionally relevant archive project.’ I would like the Council of State to elaborate on that point a little bit. Does it mean, as I had the impression from the post, that this is about projects for museums, that is, under the direction of the museums, or is it about a broader approach? It'll be of great value to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e275	The project does not need to be limited to the museum, but a museum must be associated with the project. When you correct this premise that the Norwegian Cultural Council is managing, so clearly towards the museum, it's because you know that they have access to a very large part of the private archives. So by targeting it that way, we can get the most effect of the money that we're talking about. At the same time, I would like to stress that since 2005 the increase in the archive field has been significant, at a total of 80 p.m., and that I believe it is important in future to continue to strengthen the archive field, especially in view of the new challenges associated with digital reality, everyday life, and the need for one to have good routines on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e282	Now the Council of State says that a significant part of the private archives is connected to a museum in some way. That's it. But there's also a lot that isn't. I'm going to assume that the Norwegian Cultural Council makes a professional assessment of what's historical and what's cultural. In any case, there is an assessment there of what you want to support, because you do not have money for everything – for example. part of the sources in which the representative Skei Grande was. The audio archives or part of the source material related to the county archives, where some organisations, clubs and associations, for example, in the local communities would dispose of their archives, would then be excluded. I think it's strange that you put in a limit as clear as a museum connection, when an instance like the Council of Culture will in any case make a judgement here. Isn't that a little square approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e289	No, the approximation is not square; it is targeted. And when it comes to the private archives, it's important for us that one has a holistic strategy associated with it. That's why we've challenged the National Archives to design that kind of holistic strategy for the private archives with regard to the level of preservation – how much they should keep of the private archives, and how they should be preserved – so that we are sure that our common history, the social documentation we need, not only consists of what is accessible through public archives, but also through the private archives. I can assure the representative Thommes that I share his commitment to the private archives, and that the National Archives will start developing this holistic strategy. When we go through the archive laws, we will also see if we can explain in the form of the law the responsibilities of the National Archives as coordinating bodies for collecting the material of the private archives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e296	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e314	In developing the new EU long-term Horizon 2020 programme, José Manuel Barroso said that investing in children and young people is the best business idea. To draw it a little further: investing in education for all may be one of the most important things we can do to reduce poverty, to contribute to the development of democracy and to ensure a positive development in poor countries. It has enormous ring-fences to contribute to education. It creates economic growth – not least it becomes more long-term – it contributes to a well-functioning democracy, and not least reduces it and makes it more difficult for dictatorships and authoritarian regimes to hold on to power. It contributes to cohesion, where education also reaches the poorest. For girls, education may have even greater ring-effects than for any other group. It is still the case that more girls than boys are kept out of school, but for those girls who are educated, it can be seen that it helps to expose them to age when they are married in many countries. On average, the age from 14 to 17 years is postponed, they have on average fewer children, and postponing the time of the first birth helps reduce both maternal and child mortality. We also know that children of educated mothers get more nutritious food, and not least that educated mothers and women contribute to education for their children again – in other words, there are many positive ringing effects. There have been years of positive development. Since 1999, the number of children out of school has been reduced from 108 million to 61 million. There are several girls going to school, especially in a country like Afghanistan, and it's a very happy development. It has been a pleasure for the committee to look closely on a few occasions. Between 1999 and 2004, the number of children in school in sub-Saharan Africa increased by 21 million. However, the progress slowed down in 2004, and it stagnated in 2008. To use sub-Saharan Africa as an example again: it is now the area in the world where the proportion of children outside school is increasing – 1.6 million more children are now not going to school in sub-Saharan Africa. We see that 60 million of the children around the world who were admitted to school fall out of school before they reach 4th grade – not least we see that many tens of millions complete school without acquiring the basic skills. So we have many challenges on the global arena. One is the quantity – we need to get even more children into school – but not least, quality challenges. We have a great job to do when we now discuss the agenda for what will happen after the end of the Millennium Goals in 2015. Several have stressed the importance of reaching, in particular, marginalised groups. In this context, typical children live in war and conflict areas, an extremely vulnerable group. It is not always so important that they learn to read and write when school is set up in a war zone, but that they maintain a normality in everyday life — some framework that makes them get rid of their minds from the conflict they are in the middle of. The Committee visited a refugee camp on the border between Turkey and Syria last November. There were school offerings among the most important ones highlighted as offers to the children. Another marginalised group is disabled children, who are rarely sent to school, and not least we know that it is a major challenge to get to school for children living in rural areas, compared with children living in urban areas. It is easy to count and easy to get into school children living in central areas; it is more difficult with others. There are three times as many students who don't learn to read and write after the third grade as there are children who are out of school – so we have huge challenges with the content as well. We will lack about 5.5 million teachers in 2015, and this is true in a large range of countries. We need a strategy to meet it – and not least: we need to think that there is something after basic education. It doesn't just hold on to basic education; we also have to think about higher education and higher education. Norway has to take a lead in the discussion on what will be on the agenda after 2015 — after the Millennium Goals have been reached. Now not all the thousand-year targets are reached, but it is important that Norway is an active driver. The commitment of 164 countries to the ‘Education for All’ objectives in 2000 shows that it is beneficial — some have to go ahead and take leadership. We also see that the education aid provided globally falls. It has many reasons, but it is important that Norway shows the way in the opposite direction. Norway gave priority to the 2007 budget, and there have been consequences. It is quite clear that there are priorities — and it is quite legitimate to give priority — but it has to be known that it has some visible consequences. Education was then withdrawn from the list of priority areas of development policy. A global foreign committee in its time and a foreign and defence committee today has pointed out that it wants to reverse that trend and that the share of education aid will increase. Erik Solheim said in an interview I had on this topic in February 2008: ‘Education is not excluded from the Government’s development effort, but we have selected a few areas where we have escalated the financial amounts.’ That's absolutely right, and I'll get back to that right away. In New Time 12 April 2007, former Minister of Development Erik Solheim also said: ‘But I am not willing to say that education is job number one, that it is more important than peace in Sri Lanka, equality for women or the climate turmoil.’ It's a perfectly legitimate priority, but we have to be aware that it has some consequences. Yesterday, new figures from Norad showed how aid money was distributed in Norway. It's a very useful overview that gives a good insight into how we spend the money. From 2005 to 2012, Norwegian aid increased by more than 9 billion. kr. In 2005, we spent 1 billion. DKK in basic education in poor countries; in 2012 we spend 1 billion. kr for basic education in poor countries. In 2005, we spent 1 billion. kr on climate and environmental measures, in 2012 we spend 5 billion. kr. These are important questions. I know that the Minister of Development will certainly also say that it is important to have light to read under when going to school, and I fully agree with that. But it also shows that a priority is possible, and we believe that the priority the government has done has gone too far from investing in education. The Bondevik II government, set from 2001 to 2005, had as its primary objective that education was job no. 1st@item: inlistbox The goal was to double the education aid in the period, and we managed that. It is now that we spend less on education aid to all countries around the world than on aid to one country: Brazil. It's a wake-up call. This is also the case where aid to Africa has fallen by about a quarter. 500 million. kr from last year. At the same time, if we look at the figures that Norad presents — where this figure also stood — we can also see that the proportion of children in sub-Saharan Africa who do not receive education is increasing. It's dramatic. Then I heard the Minister for Development say this morning that Norway is not going to pay for education to poor countries, that it must be right and important that poor countries themselves pay for their children's schooling. If that argument is valid, we can just end up with development policy, because that's what we're doing. We want to support under certain projects and certain thematic priorities in countries where we are engaged, just as the government certainly does not believe that climate action should not be paid for in poor countries. This is why Norway is currently using large parts of its development budgets. So it's important to keep paying attention to the importance of political visibility. The fact that we are going to spend money on education aid does not mean that we take responsibility for contributing to the countries themselves. On the contrary, I see it as very positive that more low-income countries are now increasing their share of the budgets for education. But we're going to help, and we're going to take a leading role internationally to help other countries do the same. Investing in children and young people is not just the best business idea you can have, it's definitely the most important and most effective way to drive development, and it's what may be the biggest ringing effects of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e362	Discussing how the world's kids can get a good education is important. It is important for the country, because although education does not automatically generate economic growth, no country has experienced long-term economic development without investing in its own population. It's important for democracy, because knowledge is power, and not least it's important for a fair distribution. If you have access to education, regardless of the size of your father's wallet or your mother's wallet, it's important to create opportunities for the kids. Fortunately, more and more girls and boys in poor countries receive education in 2013 than before, and Norwegian aid contributes to it. The poorer countries and the poorest countries are moving ever closer to the Millennium Goal No. 2, schooling to everyone, and thousand-year-old goal no. 3, equality in education. That's good. Norway contributes to these results. We are among the world's largest donors to the UN's work to achieve Millennium Goal No. 2 and the deciduous largest individual of the UNICEF fund to ensure that girls have access to education as well as boys. So this is where we deliver well. This week Norad published updated figures for Norwegian aid in 2012. It says that Norway has doubled education assistance over the last ten years, from 855 million. SEK in 2002 to SEK 1.6 billion. kr in 2012. In 2011, global aid fell for the first time since 1997. It was a result of the economic decline in the donor countries. This also affected education assistance. However, it increased from donors such as Norway, Denmark, the United Kingdom and Germany. In total, Norway paid over 16 billion. kr for training during this period. There are solid contributions that make a difference for poor children, and place us well internationally. We can discuss the proportion of the aid budget that should go to education, but we cannot do so without first stating that Norwegian education efforts are large, good and important. So let me first describe our educational effort and the reality we meet, in a little more detail. I fully agree with the representative, Eriksen Soreide, that the work on the Millennium Goals is not over – it must continue. After all, it's a two-year leg until they're reported. So how it goes in 2015, we really don't know until 2017, but we have to go on to make sure that the Millennium Goals in this area are achieved. The challenges are great and they are many, both for the developing countries and for us who are a great giver. From 2008 to 2010, the number of children in sub-Saharan Africa who did not receive school increased by 1.6 million, requiring continued efforts. However, in terms of the number of children who receive education — and who received education during that period — development is also positive. In Ethiopia alone, the number of children at school increased by 8.5 million over 10 years. Population growth, however, is so rapid in so many developing countries that school capacity does not keep pace. In sub-Saharan Africa, the population has increased by 2.5 pst. about a year since the turn of the millennium. In Uganda, which has the youngest population in the world, is now 80 pst. by residents under 30 years of age. Clearly, it poses enormous challenges for a good number of developing countries. Another direct reason for the lack of schooling for many children in poor countries is war and conflict. Norwegian aid goes to peace and reconciliation, and it should just lead to children going to school, parents working, etc. Providing training to young people in war and conflict areas and in vulnerable countries is a priority part of Norwegian education aid, because in these areas, the authorities themselves are not able to provide for young people. It is therefore wrong to see the increase in the number of uneducated children only as a result of a lack of funding, because the situation is complex and efforts need to be made in several areas. Economic development is important, population growth needs to be reduced, and unrest and war affect young people’s access to education. The fact that the states themselves are able to provide and actually prioritise education for their own people is, in our government's view, absolutely fundamental to succeeding in this. What is our education strategy? We are talking first and foremost about basic education in this context, because that is what I understand that the representative Eriksen Soreide's interpellation is about. All research shows that education is the investment that pays off both for the people concerned and for society. Our most central challenge in educational cooperation is to contribute to the positive benefits of education for more people and countries. In fact, most of the world's poor countries now live in middle-income countries. 70 pst. live in middle-income countries. In my opinion, it imposes requirements for rethinking. If we are to make assistance superfluous — that must be the goal — we must look at the distribution within countries as well as between countries, although the largest differences in the world are still between the richest countries and the poorest countries. As the representative will hear more about tomorrow when I present the government's distribution message, the government is concerned that developing countries need to become even better at finding resources and taking responsibility for themselves. More assistance to increase tax revenue is part of what we're doing, and I really realized that Right Peter Skovholt Gitmark was critical to when we last debated this here at Stortinget. A fairer distribution is the fundamental instrument for sustainable development, including in the field of education. The Government will place more emphasis on respect for human rights as a criterion for assistance from Norway, and the right to education is such a human right. A rights-based development policy therefore means that we should contribute to ensuring that all human fundamental human rights are respected. Here I feel that the government has a unanimous stature behind it, with the exception of the Advance Party, who from this pulpit has said that they are fundamental opponents of giving support to the authorities of other countries so that they can bet, among other things. on education. I think that's strange, because if we're not going to contribute our support to enabling states to meet their human rights obligations to their own inhabitants by building up parallel systems, I think there's going to be a misguided development policy. Fortunately, we already see positive developments in several places in the field of education. Even among the poorest countries, the authorities are now taking more responsibility. UNESCO figures show that government expenditure on education in sub-Saharan Africa has increased on average by 5 pst. annual from 1990 to 2010. In Tanzania, which I visited with the knowledge minister just before Easter, the Tanzanian government increased its own investment in education from about 2 p.m. of gross domestic product in 1999 to over 6 pst. of gross domestic product 10 years later. That's how we want it. That's the way we have to go. Countries must themselves finance the education of young people, and our development policy should focus more on enabling countries to do so. People aren't stupid. Developing countries are not stupid. They realize that they have to invest in their own people. Thus, countries have not replaced their own use of money in externally assisted education. According to a report from the thinking tank Research for Development, two thirds of the increase in public expenditure on education in sub-Saharan Africa from 1999 to 2007 is not due to aid, but to increased revenue from economic growth. In this respect, it is right to say that there are considerable variations, and the representative Eriksen Soreide indicates that many countries are still dependent on assistance. Unfortunately, many countries will still be, but the trend is positive. Norway shall support those countries which demonstrate that they take the right to education seriously. We will continue to target the most vulnerable groups of children who do not receive school because they live in particularly vulnerable areas of the world. Among the 20 countries receiving the most education support from Norway in 2011, nine are ranked as vulnerable countries. Young people in those countries must also be given priority in the future. The voluntary organisations are particularly central to the work of non-functioning authorities or of countries coming from conflict. Persons with disabilities and children in situations of war and conflict are over-represented among those who will not have their right to education through the Millennium Goals, and therefore providing universal goals is extremely important. This year the government and the Stortinget granted 75 million. In addition to the work of voluntary organisations on children in war and conflict, we are also giving priority to this area in international cooperation. Schooling is not just about places, but it is also about the quality of school provision. As we now work on new development goals in the post-2015 agenda, I want more attention to be paid to the content of education. The fact that we have experienced a large growth in the number of places has been achieved, among other things. from a way of counting -- you push more people into the classroom -- but it often leads to more people at the other end who can't read and write, even though they've been in school for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e401	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I want to say that there is a smaller Polish development minister we have now than we had before, and I am positive that it seems that he will address some of the issues that are obviously going to be important in the Norwegian work on the development agenda ahead. Of course, Norway alone does not decide how the development agenda should be – I would almost say fortunately it is not like that – but the recordings we make are going to be important and tone-indicating because we are a significant player in development policy in the world. It also means that the political signals we send about what we prioritise from the Norwegian side, of course, will also be important. When the Council of State speaks of an increase and of how training aid has been doubled since 2002, most of this increase comes during the government period from 2001 to 2005. But what worries me is that when we look at basic education, perhaps the most important thing – close to 80 pst. of Norwegian education aid goes to basic education — it has been on the ground since 2005, i.e. in about 1 billion. kr. There are many other items and areas that have also increased significantly during the period, and I think it is important to maintain that education aid is a significant part of the Norwegian development budgets. That's a lot of challenges. What I would like the Council of State to say more about is what strategies we have to meet what is, and is going to be, a pretty big lack of teachers – about what the Council of State said at the very end of its speech, about the importance of quality, not just of quantity. I know that when the committee last met with Anthony Lake, Director General of UNICEF, he was very concerned about how together you can create strategies to reach the most marginalized groups. I would like the Council of State to say something more about it, because there is such an important point for future education policy globally. When you don't marginalize the groups, both children in war and conflict, and those who are not sent to school for different reasons, we can't achieve the goals. What has also been a question that I know several of the organisations, among others. Plan and Redd Barna, have discussed and wanted, have been that education – in line with energy and the environment, health and social – is given its own budget line, i.e. that one sees together how much goes to education. It's a little strange that education doesn't have it in the budget, and it's a challenge that I'm passing on to the Council of State, whether it could be a point to try to make it more visible, also because it can help improve the debate on education assistance. There is a lot of debate on many aspects of Norwegian development policy, but I often think that we could need even better and more substantive debate, both on education aid and in other areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e412	Let me take some of the things that Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide is bringing forward. One is the question of own budget line. I didn't think we'd do that. It was Eriksen Soreide's own government, that is, the previous government, which had a very strong country focus, and said country, country, country. So it's our government that's pulled it up, and said that's something we're pulling out in our own budget line: energy and climate and environment, forest. I believe that this is the one important debate on education and Norwegian education support: are not the countries themselves responsible for education policy? And isn't it much better, rather than driving on and financing the normal developing countries, i.e. Tanzania's and Mozambique's educational systems, that we spend the money and the aid money to enable the countries to earn their own income? Because we see that when they do, they give priority to education for their own people. I think that's the main line. I believe that Norwegian support for the development of education policy should be more measured as to whether the countries with which we are working and with which we are working are able to allocate an increasing share of their own funds to education, rather than to finance education in those countries. I think it's much less aid-dependent, and I think it's right. But in some areas, it's important that we do a job. It is important that we do a job in war and conflict areas, and that is why we say very clearly that humanitarian aid should be spent on training for the young people who experience refugee conflicts. The representative mentioned Syria, but we also have Somalia and several other countries where this is the case. In South Sudan and other countries that come from war and conflict, there we're going to do the job. Now we are also going to place greater emphasis on providing training for people with disabilities to Norwegian organisations and international bodies. Disability is the most important marginalized group that Eriksen Soreide pulls up, and we say that we need to give priority to this. As far as girls are concerned, we are, as I said, the largest single person today at UNICEF's fund, who works for this, because girls and gender equality policies are a cross-cutting issue. Finally, a challenge to Eriksen Soreide: Is it challenging for you, if you get a majority, to cooperate in government with a progress party that is opposed to state-to-state aid, and that will cut 7 billion. Is there a problem with the aid? State-to-state assistance will be essential for the achievement of the UN’s Millennium Goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e423	The Council of State is asked to use the form of appeal ‘President’ in subsequent articles when it is to address the representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e426	Ensuring education for children and young people must be an important objective of development policy, for today many do not have that opportunity at all. We see that in many countries where children actually start school, more fall out and end up too young. 71 million in high school does not go to school. This is serious, and it is therefore important that education is high on the international agenda and that countries join forces to contribute. Interpellant criticises the government’s intervention and believes that Norway should spend more money on education. It's okay to think that more money should be spent on education, but to present it as if it's not invested by the government is actually wrong. Norway today consumes 1.6 billion. on pure educational assistance. In addition, funds are used over other budget lines, which may not be equally visible and easy to read. For example, money is spent on vocational training in agriculture, but then the figures are found under agriculture and not under education. But no matter how you read it, there's a focus on education from Norway. We are the sixth largest donor country in the world for basic education. We're talking about the proportion we spend on education, which the interpellant thinks is too low. Over the last few years, there have been a number of interpellations from the Right and from the rest of the opposition on aid, where the government is criticised for not spending enough money, and for the fact that the proportion spent on education, on children, on health and on human rights is too small – they believe that this proportion must rise. What would have been interesting in that regard was to sum up all these increases you want, and then make it rhyme with that you want to cut the aid budget, which Right actually wants to do. And the same party often mentions in debates that they believe it is wrong that the government has set itself the goal that the aid should be 1 pst. of gross national income, in which case the total number of dollars is not the percentages and shares. I'm not going to be able to get hold of this. Right-wing wants a new direction of development and aid policy, and that is quite right. Right wants to spend less money, you don't want to have the 1 pst target, you want to change the funding system for organisations, you want to cut in the number of countries you provide assistance, you want to have a geographical and thematic collection and bet on other instruments, like trade. These are completely acceptable positions to have, but I disagree with most of them. I mean, for example. That cutting off all support for Latin America is completely wrong. If we look at the bilateral education aid to countries there, you will have to cut right across many countries. You have to cut $7 million. NOK 2 million for Colombia. NOK 14 million for El Salvador. SEK to Nicaragua, SEK 3 million. to Peru — to name a few — in aid for education, of which you are so concerned. The fact that there are disagreements between parties on political priorities in many areas is normal. That's the policy. But I think it's almost a little frivolous when it's said that the government and the majority of the population don't rate education in the aid. During the last decade, the aid budget has doubled in nominal terms and support for education has doubled in parallel with it. It is quite legitimate to think that this is not good enough, but I think it is especially when the criticism comes from a party that will actually spend less money on assistance, and that wants to enter into a commitment cooperation with a party that wants even greater cut in the aid budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e439	An honorary man, Nelson Mandela, has said that education is the most important weapon if we are to achieve change in the world. I agree. More than 61 million children today do not have access to basic education, and more than 775 million of the world’s adult population cannot read and write because they have never gone to school. Everyone is missing out on a fundamental human right: the right to education. Education is a fundamental right and a guiding principle for all the other human rights. This right was established for the first time in the 1948 UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. A number of successive conventions and declarations strengthen and uphold this right. We know that education promotes and strengthens the individual's freedom and will help fight poverty and create opportunities for nations that are struggling today to meet the future in a way that enables them to create their own future in the long term. It's important. Norway is a nation that likes to get on the chest and conveys the message about Norway as an aid nation. The figures show that in 2012, Norway provided assistance of 27.6 billion. kr. But if we look at what these means go to, I think there's reason to reflect on how these means are used and distributed. For 2010 the Norwegian education aid amounted to 7.8 pst. of the total Norwegian aid, total 1,6 billion. kr. Now the fraction is down to 6 pst. Let's look this up against the 27.6-billion-billion-dollar aid. kr, the proportion of educational activities is nothing to boast of. The number of heads is the same. In fact, this is going to be a decline, a wrong priority for the use of funds and a deprioritisation of education. If we look at the list of recipient countries, we also see that the aid is currently linked to payments, for example. for the energy sector and forest conservation. One of the countries receiving the most aid today is Brazil. The question as to whether the use of funds has the best possible effect can be asked. That's what must be the whole intention in terms of assistance, what you get back, and what the effect is of the means you use. The Progress Party believes that the foundation of a sustainable development policy must be that developing countries should gradually be able to cope without transfers. In our opinion, it is crucial to build up under instruments to ensure that this can be done. Education is just such an instrument. Therefore, Norwegian assistance should be more targeted, and education should be a measure that should be ensured for a greater part of the benefit of the Norwegian aid pot. However, we cannot underestimate the fact that we have also seen poor examples of the use of aid for the education of children. Examples of how Palestinian children are trained to hate Jews are an example of the wrong use of aid that creates more problems than is good. It is therefore essential that Norwegian assistance in the future does not function according to the approach of introduction, but emphasises concrete measures to ensure development, empowerment and thus allow the beneficiary countries to manage themselves, thereby reducing their overall aid budget, as more and more beneficiary countries can stand on their own and with a trained population.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e458	Let's first move a little bit in macro and enjoy the fact that the proportion of the poor in the world has fallen dramatically in the last 15 years. 450 million people have worked out of poverty. There are now significantly fewer children who do not go to school, and the number has ranged from 108 million to 61 million since 1999. A number of countries are increasing their education or education budgets, and for low-income countries the increase has been as high as 7.2 pst. annual since 1999. This is reason to rejoice, and this is reason to take part in the debate. However, problems arise when you see that the number of children not in school has stagnated since 2008. Education is a main field of action for the Right. Good education is one of the main means of achieving development and poverty reduction. Education for all is a premise to ensure knowledge and labour that can contribute to economic growth and development. Education is also essential as a means of achieving development objectives related to health, equality and economic participation. Participation in education is also protective: children and young people in education are less exposed to criminal acts such as sexual abuse. In addition, women who have education are married, later on, they give birth later, and it promotes a number of other important areas, such as health, hygiene and nutrition, especially for their children later. Access to free basic education is a human right. It's anchored in the United Nations Children's Convention. Unfortunately, the international progress towards ensuring children's access to education has stopped. In addition to the 61 million children who are outside the education system, there are a large number of children who experience poor educational quality and that they learn little or that they fall out of school. The lack of qualified teachers around the world is great, and it is increasing. It is estimated to be over five million teachers in 2015. The majority of these children are in areas of war and conflict or in South Sahara. They are among the poorest; they are the marginalised populations such as ethnic minorities or children with disabilities. Disability, or disability, is one of the most important factors in explaining why children are excluded from the education system, and that is unacceptable. It is a matter of concern and a sign that education for all is a priority. The right will strengthen the work of education for all. It is important to support countries in ensuring access for everyone to free basic education and a good learning environment with qualified teachers. To do that, we need to build up our own capacities, we need to take international leadership, and we need to integrate far more in the process towards the new development goals. Norwegian development efforts are large, good and important, said the Council of State. I fully agree with that. But Norwegian education can be bigger, better and even more important, and it wants the Right to do something about it. Initial training has been stable for 1 billion. kr from 2005 to 2012. Education disappeared as a priority target in 2007. Children's rights are not prioritised, as my interpellation before Easter showed. And education skills in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in our embassies have been built down since 2005. But every country, whether poor or rich, is responsible for its own population and for the protection of its own people's rights. Changing tax systems, helping to build up new opportunities for tax revenue, takes time. For Higher Development Policy, an objective is permanent out of poverty, democracy and human rights. We can and should contribute, and in order to do so we need to make a greater contribution to education as well as to education. To the right, Norway wants to take more international leadership and use our development policies to achieve our objectives: sustainable out of poverty, human rights and democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e477	I want to thank the interpellant for a good interpellation and a good post. Tomorrow, state councillor Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås is presenting the announcement of fair distribution in development policy. It is also, of course, about the right and opportunity that all people should have for a good education. Education is the way out of poverty for very many people, and education is a crucial prerequisite for balancing social differences. The common school we built up here in Norway is a very good example of that. But it can also be said that more equitable distribution is a prerequisite for more and better education. For example: ensuring that poor countries and middle-income countries receive the tax revenues they will receive, which are shared by several, it provides the possibility to finance good public services such as: health, which I know the opposition parties are concerned about, and education, which several opposition parties say they are concerned about. The absence of war and conflict is a crucial prerequisite for access to good public services such as health and education. And combating child labour and ensuring that children are not used as child soldiers is, of course, an important condition for children to take up education. Norway is clearly the largest individual for UNICEF's work on girls and education and, as the Minister has pointed out, training assistance has doubled in the last ten years. We share the credit for that with a former bourgeois government – it has the interpellant quite right in it. Then we might have a discussion about the proportion of Norwegian development funds going either to education, to health, to human rights or to other things, but it is worth noting that the proportion does not say anything about nominal growth, and especially when the development budget has increased so strongly under the red-green government. Then we quickly find ourselves in the strange situation that the fact that we have increased efforts so dramatically in so many areas is used as an argument against the government in the field of education, although it has also increased. Interpellant talked a lot about priorities with the clear view that Norway has not given priority to education in recent years. But your wager has been increased. The right-hand focus on shares, I think, is actually an elegant way to cover the fact that they themselves are likely to increase the educational share of the development budget by cutting in most other ways. For all assistance outside Africa, the Right has announced that they will cut — all assistance outside Africa. The incredibly important one-percent target, which has given Norway the doubling of the development budget, and which I know that for example. The Christian People's Party is occupied with, the Right has said that they should be removed. But the Progress Party, which is against aid on a principle basis, and which will cut 7 billion. kr of the current year's budget for development shall be entered. There is little help if the share spent on education is increasing, if the sum spent on education is falling. It's the most imaginable fasit of this equation. The very best way to ensure increased efforts for education in development policy is to keep the one-percent target – that is, the whole basis for the strong increase we have had in our international solidarity with other countries – and then to keep the Progress Party away from the government offices, so that we do not cut billions in the development budget. This is a logic I think most people, if they think about it, agree entirely. If a new government is to cut as far as the development budgets are concerned, it will neither be a good influence on Norway’s efforts nor on the ability of beneficiary countries to train and recruit teachers and finance good education systems. Then the question asked by the representative Eva Kristin Hansen is a very relevant question. For opposition parties, they have announced that they will prioritise health higher than the red-green government does, they have said that they will prioritize the work of human rights higher than the red-green government has done, and they have said that they will prioritise the share of education in the development budget higher than the red-green government has done, and so we are talking about a red-green government that has doubled the development budget. But what should be the priority? That's what I've asked Right before, I've asked the Christian People's Party about earlier, but it's not that easy to get an answer to. All the honors to the Progress Party, which is completely in agreement, they're not going to give priority to anything, they're going to cut 7 billion. kr. It is not my and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås’ and Eva Kristin Hansen’s problem. It is the problem of those who intend to cooperate with the Progress Party in development policy. It will also affect educational efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e499	Let me first be allowed to thank the representative Eriksen Soreide for having raised this good debate and for a good contribution, and also the Council of State Eidsvoll Holmås for an engaged post. The debate so far confirms the importance of the education target for all, and also clearly confirms the need for a stronger priority for education in Norwegian aid. In my view and in the view of the Christian People's Party, we need a more concrete action plan to contribute stronger and more focused from the Norwegian side. Education is both a human right and a crucial contribution to combating poverty, and it is a prerequisite for democracy and respect for other human rights. That's why one of the most central goals of the United Nations is to work for all children to go to school. The second Millennium Goal is to ensure full primary education for all boys and girls by 2015, and we know that the fight for girls' schooling is extremely important. However, after a significant increase from 108 million to 61 million, with more people in it, it has stagnated since 2008. That gives cause for concern. Those who thought that education for everyone was nearly accomplished were too naive. Those who down-prioritised schooling from such a point of view were wrong. Here, as in dealing with other challenges, it is not necessary to move forward until the goal is achieved. Going to school is an important goal, but it's not enough to ensure that they get a good learning outcomes. Therefore, the quality of education is so important. This has also been almost ignored by those who have claimed that there is no reason to maintain such a high priority in education aid. First, it's important to have enough teachers. In order to increase school access rapidly, a number of the poorest developing countries increased the number of pupils in each class. It's probably in some cases weakened students' learning outcomes. Secondly, it is important for students to be trained by qualified teachers. Teacher training is poorly developed in many places. Many teachers do not have sufficient qualifications. Thirdly, there is a lack of access to school books and other learning material. In some cases, it weakens the quality of teaching and the effectiveness of learning. There are several reasons why children are missing out on primary school, although school access for most has become a reality. As many have experienced, expanding school provision to marginalised groups is a special challenge. The provision of schooling in conflict zones or in other difficult-to-reach areas may be difficult. It can be a problem to ensure that all girls go to school when traditional attitudes go in the opposite direction. Securing children with different disabilities can also be difficult when discrimination and prejudices create obstacles. A clear conclusion is that the need for training assistance remains strong. It is good that, in general, low-income countries have increased their efforts for education since 1999, but many of them remain dependent on Norwegian aid. Therefore, it is worrying that the total international education assistance has fallen in 19 low-income countries. For many donor countries, the backlogs in the international economy may have contributed to aid relief. This is not the case in Norway, for our national economy has been well under way in both the financial crisis in 2008 and the euro crisis in recent years. There are other reasons why the proportion of Norwegian education aid has fallen in recent years. The explanation is largely political. In 2005, training aid amounted to 9,5 pst. of Norwegian aid, according to NORAD statistics. The very latest figures from NORAD show that education aid in 2012 was down to 5.9 p.m. This is a dramatic down-priority in a few years. Although that's just the proportion, you can also look at the amount of the heads. When the amount is the same in 2005 and 2012, it means a real decrease, because the money is worth less today than in 2005. When, among other things: The representative Serigstad Valen believes that this is not a matter of priority – in proportion as well as in crowns and ears. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we would also like to remind you that the Stortinget has repeatedly expressed a desire to strengthen education aid again. It has not been followed up, and now the government must take action. That is why we believe that there is a need for a much more obliging escalation plan for Norway's efforts to provide the world's children with the schooling that has been adopted as a human right for all, but is still only a distant dream for millions of children in the world's poorest country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e520	With the risk of taking out my history teacher gene a little too much, I want to start with a little look back at what has happened in this room, from when Norway was a leek country and the Left was founded as a party. What is the first of the great, old Left Lords to take hold of when they are to bring this country out of enormous poverty? Yes, the first is a major school reform. The first is to introduce the Norwegian Joint School, where everyone was to sit on the same bench, whether it was the priest's daughter, the teacher's son or the housekeeper's daughter, and where everyone was to learn the same thing. It was a huge education project, and I think we have to think a little bit back on what that really meant. It meant that at some point in this room you decide something so radical that everyone is going through a school where you have to learn to read and write – so if you should probably never hold a sheet in your entire professional career. All of them, most of the children would never hold a sheet, but nevertheless they decided in this room that you should learn to read and write, music, nature and some other quite useless subjects in most of the children's everyday lives. What did this lead to? Yes, it was a huge process of democratization. This led to all of us, for example: be able to negotiate their own employment contract. You could sign a contract of employment where you had agreed to pay. You couldn't do that before. This was the great democracy project that left started in 1880, and for which Johannes Steen laid the foundation when he laid the foundation of the Norwegian Joint School. It shows how important that key was to the well-being we have today, and how hugely important that democratization project was to the well-being and equality we have today. The children who today do not receive education around the world are the poorest and most vulnerable children, in the poorest countries. To fight out of poverty, this is the most effective grip you can take. All aid organisations and all those who work with development around the world say that lack of equality and lack of girls' education is one of the major keys to preventing development and hindering the development of more well-being around the world. The education of girls is also an important key here – everyone should sit on the same school bench. The fact that you have a school system without school money, without physical punishment as part of your everyday school life, where people are taught in their actual native language, where you teach not only an elite but also more marginalized groups, such as their parents. people with disabilities have an impact on the quality and learning outcomes of each individual student. So it's important that we also participate and contribute to the organisation and learning of the historical development that Norway has actually been involved in. The left does not tend to cut aid, but we use it to say that it is important to build democracy and help those democracies that are on the way when aid is also used. The government must have boasted in order to increase the aid rate, and many of the projects agree with the heart of the Left. It is clear that there is no need to shut down to increase aid so that some projects have a smaller share. So we don't have to look at the proportion, but we can look at the actual numbers, and they show that the bilateral support for education has fallen below this government. If we don't relate to the proportion in percents, the numbers also go down. What I think is gross, because I think education, the education of children and their ability to evolve are one of the most important things we can do. That's the first thing left got into this room when we were one of the poorest countries — a lopsided country, with poor development. I think it's the most important thing to address those countries that have the challenges Norway had 100 years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e535	First, thank you to Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide who will follow up this matter again. It's obvious and something amazing that the government has to be encouraged to do this again. I am at least amazed that education, the very basis for development and self-help, does not have a higher priority in Norway's otherwise good commitment to aid and development aid. It's possible I'm naive, but I thought it was a solid consensus that one of the best help measures we can provide in addition to pure health care is to give the young basic skills and knowledge so that they can take responsibility for further development themselves. With this background, I am really surprised when I see that not only from Norway but also from an overall international contribution, less resources go to knowledge. Of course, it is great that the high number of children who do not receive education has decreased significantly over time, but once these developments have stopped, it is quite appropriate to review their priorities. Unintelligible numbers of children still do not receive education, and we also see that large parts of those who have started education do not complete. 60 million doesn't go beyond 4th grade. Contributing to the start-up of education, appropriate locations and, not least, adequate access to skilled teachers is really helpful both in the short and, not least, in the long term. As the interpellant said, there is a need for almost 5.5 million teachers in a total of 112 countries by 2015. Here we can contribute, and this is aid that hits well. I think it is time that we clearly prioritise this in our aid policy, that we are clear that increased aid means should also mean increased efforts on education aid. It may therefore be appropriate to make educational assistance visible as a separate budget line. This will clarify our commitment and facilitate the follow-up of increased efforts through the budgetary procedure. I hope the government takes seriously this reminder from the interpellant and will now invite the Stortinget to give priority to education assistance when the aid money is to be distributed. They will receive the full support of the Right. I am also concerned that the international trend is the same as that we have seen in Norway. An increasing proportion of aid money goes to education. Norway has a desire to be a good role figure in international assistance. Here we have the opportunity to go to the front and show the way to the others. Through a joint effort on education as a priority task in aid work, we will be able to raise new generations in many countries towards a brighter future. Unfortunately, there does not seem to be an end to new groups facing these kinds of challenges. In these days, we see countries in wars where new generations lose the education offer, a challenge that, in addition to the war itself, will hit them hard after a few years. The challenges are many, but opportunities are also many, and Norway has to take its share of responsibility. We need to be clear that education aid should be given priority. In this way, we build on the basis of what the Council of State wants countries to take responsibility for themselves. This is a long-term work, and we have to be with all the way. So finally to the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen: We in the Right do not aim to cut the aid. We have a desire for effective action, and the priority of assistance for basic education is one of these.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e552	I would first like to thank you for a good interpellation debate. I think there have been many different aspects of Norway's education aid that I hope we can also discuss in the future. There is a call for the Council of State to also involve the Storting in the current discussions, for example: on Norway’s positions in the Post 2015 agenda. That's where I think the Council of State gets an enthusiastic and enthusiastic big deal with it. At the same time, I would like to point out some things that have emerged in the course of the debate. The representative Eva Kristin Hansen said that it seemed that it was not being invested. That's wrong. I have never said that there is no focus on education. I've just said that it's not worth enough, especially in relation to other areas. And it's not just me that criticizes it. It is a unanimous increase that has repeatedly asked the government to give priority to education at the expense of other areas. Several organisations have also done so; in particular, Plan and Redd Barna have had a strong commitment to education assistance. It is clear that there cannot be a single debate on aid that does not repeat the error that is repeated in many debates, that the Right is too much cut in the aid budgets. For 2013, our alternative budget is 900 million. kr higher than the government budget for 2012. At the time – i.e. in 2012 – it was presented as a historical bet, and we are therefore 900 million. kr above that budget. But what we have said at the same time is that we, among other things, wish to reduce some of the climate and environmental commitments, simply because the money is unused. We believe that we can rather spend that money on crucial and important training efforts. We have increased in our alternative budget the appropriations for human rights, for education, for civil society and for business development because we believe these are important areas. So to the question of shares and sums. For me, it has been important to stress that when the sum is the same in 2012 as in 2005, it should be thought-provoking. When the total assistance has increased by over 9 billion. kr in the same period, when the assistance we use for climate and forest activity, which are very important themes, has increased from 1 to 5 billion. kr during the same period, it is possible to obtain it. It's just a question of what you want to prioritize. In the budget paper provided by the government to the Stortinget, there are various budget lines under the theme of global arrangements. Education is not one of them. So it's not just about some things having their own budget lines, as the Council of State said. Education is so important and so essential – as the Council of State says. So maybe there's a way to make it visible. I feel that the government also has an commitment to education, and I hope we see more of it and a stronger commitment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e567	Just a couple of points to clarify. The question of equal opportunities for girls and boys was raised. Then I just thought that I should refer to the excellent side of the United Nations, which is about the achievement of the Millennium Goals, where it is very clear that we are now at a level where we say that there is equality of access to basic education for boys and girls. There is no doubt that, among other things: our efforts through targeted focus on this have contributed to it. I'd like to say something to Tom Staahle. I would like to ask one question to the representative to whom the representative unfortunately does not have the opportunity to respond. The Progress Party has put forward a fundamental position that they believe that state-to-state assistance is wrong. Nevertheless, the representative here says that we should increase support for education. I find that very strange, because there's no doubt that if you're going to be able to provide education and manage to build up good education systems, it's just towards state-to-state cooperation that money has to go. One of the gloves that I feel right doesn't pick up is my claim that the most important thing is not that we spend money on education, but that developing countries spend money on education. It is much better that we contribute to increased tax revenues for developing countries so that they spend money on education than we spend money on education. There will be less aid dependence on it, which I think is a problem. There'll be better and more independent ownership of it. I think that Trine Skei Grande made an interesting post. She pointed back to the Left people who sat in this room and said, "We're going to bet on education." That's right. We're not the ones sitting here in this room who are going to say that Tanzania is going to bet on education. It is the Parliament and the National Assembly of Tanzania that are to bet on education. Then we're going to help them by making sure they have income enough to get it done. But I think the main point must be that they themselves finance their own education. It's relatively low wages. There are relatively low costs of investing in education if you have higher incomes. And I think again – and I'm drawing up the problem that Peter Skovholt Gitmark didn't raise and replicate – that the main problem in a number of developing countries is that they have too low tax revenues. They have between 5 and 15 pst. tax income. No one can get out of aid dependence if they maintain the level of their tax revenues. But high rates and high weights have not been the slogan of the right-hand side in Norway, and I do not expect it to be in development policy either. Finally, I would like to say one thing about marginal groups, and I would like to reply to Mr. Eriksen Soreide – I do not have time for it with marginal groups. Then I just answer Ine M. Eriksen Soreide that with regard to the Post 2015 agenda that comes, I am on the committee that will work on following up this. Fair and universal access to education is – in my opinion – an important perspective, to which we should listen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e582	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e588	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e596	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward by the representative, Olemic Thommen, on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a national strategy on how best to address the challenges of archiving, including the challenges of document capture from digital media.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e625	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-04.ana.ud1008e781	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
