ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e24	Representatives Laila Davaøy, Steinar Gullvåg, Laila Gustavsen, Svein Roald Hansen, Harald T. Nesvik, Laila Marie Reiertsen and Jørund Rytman apply for leave on 29 and 30 May – all to attend meetings of the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee in Brussels. Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of the Buskerud County, Kjell Børre Hansen, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Laila Gustavsen, because of illness. From the first and second alternates of the Hordaland County, Torkil Åmland and Helge André Njåstad respectively, there are applications for exemptions from meeting in the Stortinge under the leave of the representative Laila Marie Reiertsen, for welfare reasons. Those applications are proposed for immediate consideration and are accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the Province of Buskerud: Ida Marie Holen and Nina Mjøberg For the county of Hordaland: Filip Rygg and Ole Kristoffer Tveiden For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Jon Georg Dale For the Westfold province: Tom Stroemstad Olsen For Eastfold County: Stein Erik Lauvås
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e94	Ida Marie Holen, Nina Mjøberg, Filip Rygg, Ole Kristoffer Tveiten, Jon Georg Dale, Tom Stroemstad Olsen and Stein Erik Lauvås are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e106	On Monday, the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State, Liv Signe Navarsete, Kristin Halvorsen and Anniken Huitfeldt will meet for oral Question Time. The state councils advertised are present, and we're ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Gjermund Hagesetter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e113	For the Minister of Municipal Affairs: again, large parts of the Austland are exposed to flooding. Fortunately, no one has lost his life, no personal injury, but it is great, significant damage. The last number indicates that there are 2,200 reported damage, and the amount is approx. 260 million. for the time being, kr. In addition to these costs, it's a tragedy for many. People have lost their house, people have lost their homes, and what makes this extra tragic is that for some it is the second time in two years that they are exposed to the flames and are missing their home. So two years ago, we had a flood, and a lot of people got their houses destroyed, but they got a knock on their shoulders from the municipality and they got to build up again. So now we're going to have one more exposure to this. It strikes me that the government has been very concerned about how the houses, the dwellings, should be built – wheelchair fitment, that one should have density, energy efficiency – but one has not been concerned about whether the houses, the dwellings, should be built in safe or unsafe areas. It can now almost look as if it is easier to have building permits in rasplish and fluumutate areas than it is to have building permits, for example. in the beach sole within the 100-meter belt. We see that if there are some municipalities that give construction permits inside the beach zone, the County State, the Minister for the Environment and the Minister for Municipal Affairs, are in the mound and are to stop this, but it does not happen when it comes to raspling and flaumuting. So my question to the municipal minister is, why hasn't the municipal minister and government done anything since the flood two years ago drifted many from home? Why has a just seat passive and looked at?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e120	It follows from the Planning and Building Act that construction should not be located where there is a ‘hazard or significant disadvantage’ to be experienced by dwellers or users. The municipalities have a special responsibility to look at this, but it is clear that the responsibility rests on more bodies than the municipality. Several departments and etatars are involved. It is the State that gives laws, regulations and guidelines for spatial planning, but it is the municipalities that are responsible for the specific planning of each municipality. The Ministry of the Environment is the Planning Government, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which I am in charge of the building part, and, as we have also said, it has done a part of it. The plan section is located in the Ministry of the Environment, and then the NVE is responsible for prevention, and is the State's scientific authority for flooding and emergency and its prevention. So when it's claimed that we haven't done anything, I'm going to say that in time after the last flood, we've had close cooperation with the municipalities, but it's primarily for my part as a municipal and regional minister within the part that I'm running. So it's hard for me to actually go into what the Minister for the Environment has done in his area. We have had replacements, and we also have discussions with several municipalities relating to how developments in this area should be. Where can a building be built, and what restrictions should be applied by municipalities in relation to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e125	I record that very little has been done by the municipal minister and the government, except that one says that one has had close cooperation and discussions with the municipalities. But for those who are exposed to flooding for the second time in two years, these discussions are not very much of a help. They see that their world disappears again, and the question is what the government and the municipal minister intend to do in the future. Can we expect that something will be done in the future that can prevent this happening again, that one, for example, gives those who are exposed to flooding, a substitute, a compensation, and an empty space that is safer? Or will the Minister of State just continue these discussions with the municipalities in the future? Will there be any action beyond discussions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e130	As I said in the introduction, according to the planning and building laws the municipalities are responsible for not placing buildings where there is a risk of flooding and race. It is clarified in the Planning and Building Law § 28-1. It is the municipality that is responsible for spatial planning, and it is the municipality that needs to consider the potential danger area and assess whether the areas where a permit is granted are safe enough and can be expanded or not. If the municipality has concrete knowledge that there are hazards or disadvantages that come under the mentioned paragraph, an application may not be accepted normally. The municipality does not have the power to grant building or sub-licenses on condition that the respondent, i.e. the builder, takes responsibility for it. It is the municipality that has this responsibility, and here we also have a case law that says that if one sees that here it has our negligence on the part of the municipality, it can lead to liability. We've also seen some examples of that before.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e135	Four follow-up questions have been asked and are raised – first the representative Åge Starheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e138	I have a feeling from the Minister's response that they are now in a terrible despair and frustrating situation, which individuals and individuals are being thrown into the midst of several bodies. I also record that the Minister for the Environment is not fully aware of what the Ministry of the Environment is doing in this matter. Does the Council of State really think that this is the way to treat people around the country? Should not the Councils of State, both in the Ministry of Local Affairs and in the Ministry of Environment, play a team with the municipalities and take an initiative towards those who are in a desperate situation, where they have lost everything they own and have, and do not know their poor advice? Should not a person here gather and really give a handshake to those who are in this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e143	It might seem that the opposition, at least those who have now spoken here, thinks that the system we have is not working. I can assure you that it does. I can assure you that those who are responsible will take responsibility. The municipality takes responsibility, the Ministry of Oil and Energy/NVE takes responsibility, the Ministry of Environment takes responsibility, and the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs takes responsibility. Now it's about cleaning up. The flood is just about to go down, and we've got close dialogue with the municipality. We had an example in Bergen before, when a larger block area crashed. Then a solution was found to the municipality and the insurance company in order to secure the plots for those who were then framed. Clearly, we need to find solutions for those who are on the frame. The system works, and it is safe to see that it does so in such situations, and that the big community and community take on the responsibility of law and regulation, but also of being part of people in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e152	Michael Tetzschner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e155	I note that the Council of State concentrates its response on what does not solve the problem, namely the new construction regulations – between friends called TEK 10. It is clear that only construction that has travelled since 2010 and beyond. What we're talking about here is the security work and the prevention work that we all agree on is going to happen in the municipalities. Then it's a little too easy just to say that this is the responsibility of the municipalities. As you know, the practice is that the municipalities cover 20 pst. of the costs, with a certain theoretical possibility of reducing in cases of crisis. But we also know that this proportion represents an unreasonable burden on many municipalities, especially the small ones. Natural damage often occurs in municipalities with large areas, small populations and small economies. So the work can go completely unstoppable. Will the Council of State look at the excess, precisely because it is a barrier to prevention?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e163	When it comes to the flood damage we had last year, a higher compensation was given than 20 pst. to the municipalities. Many of them got covered up to 50 pst. And if there's more damage than 250 kroner per capita, the government covers the remaining 100 pst. So we have a system that's better than what's being outlined here. So far, we don't have an overview of the consequences of the flood that has been. Once we have got it – we have also had dialogue with the municipalities – they have to send an overview to the County and to us. Then, together with the municipalities and the County Council, we will make an assessment of what is reasonable to deal with within the economy of the municipality. We have to do that now. We have a kind of rule that we're going to stick with, but it's not 20 pst. It's higher than in the cases we've had in the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e172	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e175	According to the flood and storm flood safety rules applicable from 1 July 2011, it is considered safe to build houses if the risk is only intended for a 200-year flood. That is, it's good to build if the mathematical risk of such a large flood only occurs every two hundred years. One of the municipalities that has really been hit by the flood this year is the municipality of Kvam. They have now experienced such a flood two years in a row. My question to the Council of State is whether the safety rules against floods and storm floods should be reconsidered, so that you don't operate with a 200-year mathematical risk, but that you might have to go down on the number of years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e180	There is a question that can and should, of course, be discussed in the extension of what has now happened. At the same time, we know that with the maps that are relative to race, relative to flooding, relative to the clay race and the possibility for it within a period of time, to put these maps on one another, there is a large part of this country where you can't live. I think the Dream Team is about to be depopulated, to say it like that, because there's also a lot of camp space in there. We are forced to look at a balance between the areas where we have built houses over decades, and the maps that are now drawn by NVE relate to several of the natural elements. Then we also need to have a bigger discussion when we see how weather and climate change change, what we do both locally, nationally and internationally to change the way we see the climate going.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e187	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e190	We must not, to a large extent, make sure to depopulate troubling layers. That would have been a tragedy! We know that climate change is going to lead to more both race and flood and natural damage in sum. In 2009, the government had a new law on natural damage at the hearing. Why has it taken so long to get it to measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e197	It doesn't sort under my range. I must be so honest to say that I do not have a full overview of the procedure in it. To give an adequate response to the representative on it, I am simply not going to go into it, because I do not have a full overview of all the details in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e202	Then that answer comes from the Council of State that has the constitutional responsibility. Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e207	My question concerns the same topic, but maybe from a slightly more general angle, because we get back to what the government said in Meld. St. 15 for 2011–2012 on floods. There the government promised it would go through «a targeted and systematic work on prevention and preparedness to ensure that the risk of flooding and evacuation is kept to an acceptable level». The importance of strong government governance and coordination of participants was highlighted. Responsibility for security measures should be clarified. It also states that systematic prevention involves the identification of hazards and the identification of the main risk areas. When the case was dealt with here in Stortingen, the opposition’s proposal to ask ‘the government provides an overview of the need for flood and racial protection’ was rejected. At the same time, a proposal was made to review the compensation rules for flood damage and natural damage with a view to major State contributions. So now we've seen that there's going to be more climate change. We have to expect that the frequency of floods and racial accidents and incidents will increase. These arrangements must then be discussed more in principle. The experience of the flood in the Gudbrand valley two years ago and last year in Troms suggests that there are problems in making reasonable settlements to the victims. Bureaucracies and unclear responsibilities, contrary to what was announced in the Single European Act, delay the implementation of prevention measures, such as: THE NVE just went out and said in the Newspaper. My question to the Council of State is then just on the follow-up to the notification: Does the Council of State mean that we have reached an acceptable level of risk for floods, and is the Council of State satisfied with how the settlements have been carried out in Gudbrandsdalen and Troms? Michael Tetzschner left here the pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e225	The representative, Tetzschner, will be given the opportunity to ask questions about follow-up if that would be desirable!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e228	In 2009, the NVE was given the responsibility of the State Trade Union Confederation for the prevention of flooding and scrapie. It is the Ministry of Oil and Energy that has responsibility for coordination on behalf of the government. That's why I also have to ask for understanding, as they answer I give to this, is in the constitutional sphere of another Council of State, that I don't feel that I can give adequate answers without having a little more opportunity to preface myself. When it concerns the amount of compensation, it's clear that I have a point of view of it, because there's also my own department inside the picture. In addition, damage to nature lies under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, to complete it. But the random municipality keeps to County, which coordinates this at local level. It is important that the County, which has local knowledge, has the necessary coordination roles towards the different departments. To answer for my own part, I think that the replacements with paint tools that have been provided – where we have also increased the pot in recent years – are tidy and neat. Those are the ones I want to answer to Stortinget, and then I have to ask that questions about the other areas of responsibility – i.e. those about natural damage and prevention – be put to the government councils responsible for it. As I said in a previous question, we have a system that works. It's also the feedback after what happened two years ago. That one has not been able to prevent and change the eleven that have now been released again, I regret, but it is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e238	Both the answer to the previous main question and what we got now is an example of the fact that the Council of State is actually involved in risk transport, i.e. she renounces the responsibility of the government itself in the Announcement. Art. No. 15 for 2011-2012. In addition, the question also arose whether the Council of State considers that we have an acceptable level of risk for floods. She may have the opportunity to answer that in concrete terms now. The question is whether it would not now have been quite helpful to get an overview of the need for flood protection, a proposal from the opposition that was voted down when the notification was dealt with here in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e245	For the sake of order, the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament require us to ask questions in the matter for which the Council of State is responsible, and it is expected that the Council of State will respond to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e248	I have nothing against discussing flaum, how we prevent it and what has happened, both two years ago and now. But when I'm in the main hall and I'm going to answer to Stortinget, I'm constitutionally responsible for what belongs to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. I must ask for some respect for that. When it comes to flooding and whether the level of risk is at the right level, we have many analyses relating to what I am aware of. Among other things, SINTEF has developed a climate and vulnerability analysis that says something about this. We have maps, as I call them, that show both racial and flammability. Put this together, there's no doubt that when it comes to large areas of our country, we have to discuss how to further develop the bus bill. It's a pretty serious question, which I can't stand and have the solution in 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e255	Elisabeth Aspaker – for follow-up questions. The President once again stresses that the questions asked are to be asked to the Council of State which is actually here to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e260	Last summer, Troms County and Målselv Municipality and Bardu Municipality were hit hard by floods. In Målself, large parts of the Kirkesdalen were shaved, roads were washed away, bridges disappeared and houses were completely damaged. The farmers had washed away their soils, and large potato crops were put under water and destroyed. A few days after the flood, the Minister of Agriculture from the Centre Party was visiting, and his message to the municipalities, the county council and the county council was that they now had to be creative. Solutions had to be found to get hard hit farmers and desperate municipalities to escape. However, shortly after that, there was a counter-declaration from the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, with a strong message that neither municipal nor regional food or beauty funds from the State could be used to remedy the damage. The crisis was a fact, and it was important that help came quickly. Why does KRD set foot down when the Minister of Agriculture turned his thumb up to find solutions and quickly rescue the victims?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e267	This happened because the County State opened up and said that one would break guidelines and laws that the Storting has set for the use of the funds. And when we are publicly aware that a countyman wants to use the funds in contravention of what is intended, we have a duty – unfortunately, I will say, but that is the duty we have in any case. We can say, unfortunately, when this is the case, because it would be very nice to use the money, but then the National Auditor's office comes to the other end and tells us that we haven't done our job. So we actually had to do this, because of the state's clear statement that one would use the funds in contravention of what they're supposed to be used for today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e272	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e275	I record that the municipality minister is trying to stay away from the responsibility as best she can, and indicates that the municipality is responsible. It is true, of course, that the municipalities have a responsibility, but the government and the municipal minister also have a responsibility. We see that there are a lot of municipalities like this. wants to build within the 100-meter field in the beach zone and such things, but they are automatically stopped by the government’s long arm in the county – the county – and are therefore not allowed to do so. The same mechanism does not occur when building in unsafe locations. At the same time, we have a government that has been very concerned about this with TEK 10 and TEK 15, that one should have wheelchair access, and that one should have passive house and energy efficiency. They are very detailed on how the houses and dwellings should be furnished. Then my question is: What is the most important thing – the layout of the houses or each one of the houses?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e282	It may sound as if there are no guidelines on how municipalities should handle the plan section of the Planning and Building Act. That's the plan part we're discussing here. The building part is my responsibility, and I fully support that. It's important what's done there. Changes have also been made at the level of the plan, and clear decisions are being taken to develop ROS analyses, risk and vulnerability analyses, which will be used as a basis for work on both societal security and preparedness. Of course, one should also have clear assessments of where one can place housing areas, and local authorities can obtain expertise, for example. from the NVE, and they do, and so they can have a good cooperation on where to place the housing fields. I felt that it was quite surprising locally that the flue that came two years ago got so much, and no one was going to see that it was going to happen again. Now it's happened again, and we have to discuss how to avoid it happening again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e289	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e292	When it comes to natural damages and payments, we see that it takes a very long time. According to Norwegian Farmers' Associations, some have had to raise private loans because they have not been compensated. They have to take up loans, it takes a long time, and they're making reminders and reminders. This is an unsustainable situation for very many. At the same time, the State Natural Damage Fund does not have an overview of how many people are still waiting for payment after the flood in 2011. One of the reasons that it is pointed to, and that, among other things, The leader of the Nord-Fron Farmers' Association mentioned is that the municipalities lack the capacity to get matters through the system. Municipalities don't have enough people to put people on the case, neither for appraisal nor approval of work afterwards. In view of the fact that, of course, the Council of State points out that it is the responsibility of the municipality, does she nevertheless see that there is something the government can contribute to, so that bureaucracy, proceedings and so on can go faster?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e300	I'm constantly seeing a movement between different departments and different responsibilities, but I'm going to try to answer it anyway. It is the grenadier and the bilgeman who is responsible for implementing the senses to be made. And when there are so many things – such a large area of business as we have seen now – it is clear that one needs to strengthen his capacity to do so. At least I've been told that it has been done, and that one has now strengthened that capacity, so that one should come faster to the goal of appreciating all the buildings and other parts of the community that are bordered. In the next round, this will also result in the replacements being paid more quickly, as far as I know, the payment from the Natural Injury Fund takes place very quickly when only one of them is received, according to the mariner's experience. It is not known to me that it is the municipality that is the clog in the system, but therefore the capacity to implement the loner's pool. That is why it has also been discussed whether others should take care of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e307	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e310	My question goes to Minister of Education Kristin Halvorsen. Each third student in the further education does not complete the course. There's a lot of them. Yes, it is actually as much as the main questioners who today chose the wrong speech seat! Kristin Halvorsen has said that this is not just a problem for those who fall from, but for the whole of society. Kristin Halvorsen has also said that the fight against non-response is job no. One. Yesterday we got the results. So after eight years of red-green rule, we get the results of the red-green government. And I have to say it's not passed when 31 pst. further training is not being completed. That's almost the same thing as in 2005. Among the elephants in the profession, it's 45 pst. dropouts, and they have no formal education after five years in the secondary school. We also see that there are significant social differences. The Council of State makes this happen and has not prioritised the measures that work and that work. The Christian People's Party wants more teachers and even better teachers. We want more groups of professionals into the school. We will put in place our own dropout pot to give priority to postponeing elephants and concrete measures. We want to give priority to home-school cooperation, and not least we want a more practical school day. My question is: is the Council satisfied with its own efforts when we see that with what is job no. one, has the result not improved?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e327	The figures published yesterday by the Statistical Central Office on non-advantages in secondary education relate to the implementation of the students who started high school in 2007, i.e. they are measured after five years. It is quite right that the non-implementation or non-delivery has been quite stable since 1994. These are students who started in the first class in 1997. And I'm just saying it because it emphasizes how important it is to think in the long term when you're going to do something relative to apostasy. In the school year 2010, we started a reinforced work together with the county councils to get more students to complete secondary education. We called it New GIV, and it has, among other things, was about rusting those who are on their way from high school and into high school, better, so that they are better prepared. Many of them have knowledge gaps, and much of the dropout in high school is about having too poor a professional basis with them from primary school. Point two: We have much better vocational training through the New GIV. We now have schools in each state — one school in each state — that are responsible for the occupational community, because we see that it is especially in the professions that we have major challenges in this regard. I have also promoted a case for Stortinget, a big message, in which the Committee will immediately give its opinion, which proposes changes to the structure of secondary education. For, in particular, we have a major problem of non-response for those students who start professionally but who choose over to the supplemental year. Almost half of these students cancel out. This is why we have also proposed the right to build on completed diplomas — and many other changes in vocational training that can contribute to better implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e338	I feel that we have a government council that understands the problem, but even if this is job no. One for the red-green government, so we don't see any constriction in the results. I'm glad I didn't ask questions about what's job number. two and three for this government. What I'm experiencing here is that despite the fact that we know that so to say all of those that, among other things. If you receive social assistance, you are the student who is unable to complete further training, you will find that the results are not improved. This, as the Council of State says, has been a social problem for over 20 years, and we see that after eight years of red-green rule, we have not been closed in getting better results. So I repeat my question: Is the Council of State satisfied with the results in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e347	I am pleased with the initiatives we have taken through the New GIV, which ensure that we follow up students in a completely different way now, especially when it comes to drop-outs. A few years ago, there were 10,000 young people aged 15-21 who were not in work and who were not in education, which we did not know where. Now, through close cooperation with the follow-up service and Nav, we have made sure that this number has been greatly reduced and is now approaching 2,000 students. And I'm not going to give up until we find all of them. I am pleased with the reinforced efforts we are now making in high school, where we are going to implement an after-school reform for all high school teachers. We now start with 250 high school to get a more practical and varied high school, better classroom management, better reading, writing and billing. I am pleased with the measures we have proposed in the big message that has been presented. They are very well received by the sector. And I've taken a much stronger hold on the cooperation we now have with the states, to succeed in this. We see that we succeed better in the transition between Vg1 and Vg2 than before. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e358	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e361	I have participated in this room with varying education ministers who have expressed concern for this result. I hear the Council's reply now, where she points out that we have to take action, that we have to wait, because these were the ones that started in 1997. But the question is really quite simple and straightforward: is it worrying that after eight years of red-green government, this report shows that there are almost 20,000 students without formal competence? And we know what that means: they'll stay out of society. And it's an illusion to think that we can only initiate measures that are quite similar to what we've done before. We have to do something more radical. My biggest concern is Finnmark. Three out of four boys fall out of high school up there. There are big geographical differences, and I haven't seen anything in the government's plans. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e370	I'm quite surprised, because it seems like the representatives Dagrun Eriksen and Knut Arild Hareide have discovered these major challenges now. I've been working on it every day for four years. We've taken a completely different approach to this through New GIV. We are now following up on efforts in the youth sector and re-training. It is vital, not just for these young people. We know that they're going to be very vulnerable if they haven't completed high school, that there'll be less room for them in working life if they don't, but society also needs a lot more professionals. The representative Dagrun Eriksen can be updated on the situation in Finnmark. I have followed up the situation in Finnmark in particular and invited them to special cooperation because they have a particular challenge in this area. Among other things, they have been given the opportunity to have twice as many teachers on the New GIV bet that we have, to equip teachers to learn to read and write better [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e379	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e382	The OECD just presented its Better Life Index. Norway is doing quite well in many areas, but not in education. That's where we end up in the middle of the tree, behind all of our Nordic neighbouring countries. One of the reasons is that Norwegian boys read less than the OECD average and that boys are further behind girls in literacy than the OECD average. These gender differences are also reflected in the absence of secondary education. For the 2007 coal, we know that one in four girls is dropping out, while one in three boys is dropping out. We also know that there are increasing gender differences of 2 pst. from 2006 to 2007 coal. So the government has a policy that creates greater gender differences in the Norwegian school. What will the Council of State do to prevent a development that creates greater gender differences in school in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e392	This is also referred to in the report of the magnificence that is now being discussed in the Church and Education Committee. It's absolutely right that we have some challenges with the gender differences. It has all countries, but we have greater gender differences than many other countries have. One of the things presented in the research we have on the promise of knowledge is that the promise of knowledge has led to the school's perception of knowledge being too narrow, too academic. It's not about theory and not theory, but it's about the entrance. That's why I've been so concerned that we're going to get to a more practical and varied school that hits several of the boys earlier. There are many ways you can learn how to write, read and calculate that is closer to what is their reality. These include: The background to the whole reform of continuing education we now have with regard to youth, where 250 schools will be involved and work more with classroom management, reading, writing and billing to work in practice. Today, new curricula for the electoral professions are also in place. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e401	The number is out. The President must remember that speaking time for supplementary questions and answers to supplementary questions is limited to up to 1 minute. Svein Harberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e408	I'm probably a little surprised when the Council of State gives so much expression that everything has to take so long. One should expect after all these years that something had given a countdown along the way – but we can't see that. I am particularly concerned when the Council of State refers to the Storing Message and the students' right to apply by letter in response. They are not included in these statistics at all, because they have completed an education. But there's something that can be done that can give counting fast, and it goes into learning places. By offering enough apprenticeships and by offering a variety of apprenticeships, more people will be able to do so. The state is still the worst, but now the state has said they're going to start, they're going to get better, and they're going to set up their own office to deal with this. It'll take time. There is a network all over the country with great training offices, professional skills, routines, networks and enthusiasm. Will the Council of State turn around and use the network that's there, and get more classrooms out now?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e417	I think we have to do both. We have a social contract, an agreement with the social partners and a clear goal of increasing the number of apprenticeship places by 20 pst. We've increased the number of apprenticeship places from last year to this year. From 2011, we've increased the number of apprenticeship places by 2,000, and that's very good. We now have more knowledge like, among other things. show that many enterprises do not have apprenticeships, but they are not very different from those enterprises that have apprentices. So there's a great potential for recruiting more, and the state has to do its part of the job, of course. But if the opposition wants to draw a picture of nothing happening in Norwegian school, I just have to say that you are incredibly little informed. We have very good results for progress for Norwegian students in mathematics and reading. The weakest students are so successful that they have resumed almost a full school year. So it takes some time before we see the full effect of this, but I've taken many initiatives to bring up the implementation in higher education, and there are now major changes... [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e424	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e427	The Council of State is quite right in saying that the figures for non-response have been quite similar since the introduction of Reform 94. The problem is that the government has not had an analysis of the answer before finishing the job. It has taken eight years for you to understand that you should have been working on health sisters – it's coming in public health now. It has not been understood how important this counselling service is and how important it is to reverse the pyramid, with early efforts for special education. Traffickers are much bigger today than they were in 1994, because there is no labour market today for those who come out of school and have not completed high school. It did in 1994. It is a labour market that has become smaller and smaller in our modern everyday life. So the question is, why has it taken eight years to figure out that you're going to flip these pyramids? I guess the new GIV isn't really turning the pyramid around, there's more special education already at the end of the teaching cycle.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e434	I just have to say that it's amazing how little the opposition is informed about what's been going on in Norwegian school in the last eight years. The reason why we can now see good results is that Norwegian school has turned the whole attitude towards, for example, the early effort. We have worked systematically in terms of assessment and giving students better feedback. There has been an important part of the implementation of the Knowledge promise that we have been doing every day since 2006. There are results, and a lot of these have been agreed upon in Stortinget. In the case of the New GIV, only a small part of that transition from youth to higher education. A very important part of this is the vocational correction of the profession, the follow-up of the pupils who fall from — the whole of the news of learning now being treated — as well as the great upgrading of the secondary school. So there's an amazing amount going on here. We see that from the transition from Vg1 to Vg2 we have good results after New GIV. [[President clubs]] But we have to keep this tired up. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e445	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e448	Yes, this is perhaps the last spontaneous question hour Halvorsen is present in, so I have to make sure that she gets the most attention. It seems like the council is sitting in their little glass house and peeing out, but I think she might not be as good at hearing in. So now I'm just going to deal with numbers and facts. In 2020 – in seven years’ time – according to the Central Bureau of Statistics, we will have an undercover of 11,000 teaching works in Norwegian school. Already today we have 9 000 teachers in Norwegian primary schools who do not have teaching skills. With today’s funding, it will take 35 years for all teachers to receive further training – 1 900 teachers per day. Of those who take teacher training today, a third of the students drop off. It's a terrifying drop-off. Applicants’ figures for kindergarten teacher training and primary school teacher training from 1 to 7 are falling, while 37 000 fully trained teachers are currently working in other professions. There are numbers that sail have to pass through the glass clock to the Council of State. So far under the red-green government is the most rhetorical thing that has changed in eight years, that the teacher is the most important. When the Council of State may then have to leave the department, and look back at the red-green effort for eight years, does she think that Norwegian school is now able to meet the challenges you face, to have more teachers? For all of the numbers I just mentioned, that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e457	I know that the representative Trine Skei Grande is very eager to take over my job, and I have sometimes wondered if she might be sitting on the stairs when I come one morning to check if the coffee maker is working. But it's a good sign for us in the red-green majority that the opposition has already collected a election victory, because I think that's what they're not trying enough to put forward good plans for what you want to change. When it comes to recruiting for the teaching profession and the efforts of the teachers, I would very much like to wish for some drag help from the opposition – and that is to be honest enough to say that we are in a very good trend in recruiting more people to school. Because it is important for young people to see that school is like a job and that it is a teaching profession. We have 60 pst. increase in the application for the teaching profession from 2008. That's great. We have a positive trade relationship with other parts of the world of work and the school. There are 1,000 more teachers coming back from other professions to school than those we lose out on school. That's good. If we have the same teacher density as now, we're going to lack 9000 teachers in 2020. Then there are 1,800 years' worth of unskilled teachers in school. But there are also many teachers who now have other jobs and who can be lured back to school. I mean, for example. that the test system we have with increasing teacher density is to listen to the teachers about what's going on for them to stay in school. It's very important. I think it is very important that we follow up very closely in the case of school dropout, but I also think it is right that some students should quit, preferably the first year of teacher training, if they find that there is nothing for them. I believe that we are in a very positive trend in recruiting for the teaching profession. It's very happy, for example. to see the degree of master’s training in teacher training and to rebuild it. [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e468	I notice that it's not much like when you're sitting through the glass tower, but if you're wondering if we have an action plan to return to respect for the teaching profession, the council can just click on You Tube and hear my national meeting speech, and she can get ten points on it. But I see that when SV dares to break out of the Workers' Party fold, as they did in Oslo yesterday, we get to great things. At least we got that together for the city yesterday, and that was very good. In the revised national budget for the current year, the Left will propose the introduction of 1500 more teachers — almost a double — and the State will further increase its share of this by 10 pst. It'll cost about 150 million. kr. My dream is that the council can encourage not all red-green, but perhaps SV to break out and vote for the proposal that the Left promotes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e480	I have no idea what kind of calculations left have that would actually lead to more municipalities applying for funds for further training. That's 5 pst. difference: the left-hand proposal is that municipalities pay 20 pst. of continuing training, and the SV and the government's proposal is that it is 25 pst. I don't think it has any big significance. All those applied for by the municipalities receive further training this year. I have proposed for SV's national meeting, and I have been given the impression that if the municipalities do not tighten up in using the continuing training services that are there, we must consider imposing an obligation on the municipalities to use them. It is because we need more teachers with higher skills in Norwegian school, and also because the previous government introduced that it is now the municipalities that are employers for all teachers. Negotiating responsibility was transferred to the municipalities. It is then reasonable that the employer also has a responsibility for the continuing training offered to employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e487	Four follow-up questions are raised – first inger Johanne Bjørnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e490	I see that we can read in SV's program for the next period: ‘Teacher training shall be stepped up to become a master-level education’. [[...]] We think that's very nice, since we've been doing this all along since 2007. So then we might like to welcome SV after. Although teacher training was changed not so long ago, the Left considers that there is still a need to focus more on practice and make some other improvements related to the content of education — but within a five-year master’s degree. The Council of State agrees that time is overdue for the Storting to set a clear deadline for transition to a five-year master-based primary school teacher education, for example. until 2016? This should give the institutions enough time to build up their skills to be able to train teachers at that level.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e504	We are already in the process of converting teacher training. The first to receive education after a new model is finished in the spring of 2014. We have a strong grip that follows the development of follow-up research, to see if there are any weaknesses and to see what we are going to do about it in the event. I record that all the parties – perhaps apart from the Center Party, if I'm up-to-date – have decided that they want to introduce a five-year-old master's education as teacher training. I'm assuming that for the next big period, it's going to be a theme how to proceed to implement this in a sensible way. Then you can start with the changed teacher training you already have. A very important theme is both the practice – much more serious in new teacher training – but also the strengthening of the professional and research-based knowledge of the new teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e511	Bente Thorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e514	Sufficient and well-qualified teachers are very important in primary school, not least in terms of higher education and lifelong learning. Continuing education is also very important, and it is something that teachers themselves want to do far more than the Council of State does. Today, the school lacks 9 000 qualified teachers, and the need for teachers will increase in the future. Many of those who work at school are, as I said, not qualified. They lack full education. Today's continuing training provision under state law is preferably reserved to trained teachers. The question to the Council of State is therefore: is she going to provide national measures to enable unqualified teachers to take much more full education?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e525	Firstly, I think it is important to draw attention to the fact that the proportion of unskilled teachers has been reasonably stable and below 4 pst. for many years. There are 9 000 unskilled teachers – among them there are many hour teachers – and 1,800 years of work we are talking about. So it's not like there's a lot of students who have unskilled teachers in Norwegian school all the time – fortunately. That's a good starting point. I am very concerned that several municipalities use the continuing training opportunities that lie there. Then it is for those teachers who are not qualified today: I think it is very important that the municipalities contact their teacher training centres – those who are closest – and offer runs in order to be able to take adult teacher training, preferably in combination with working at school. Some of the feedback I have received from the municipalities is that some of those who do not have teacher training, and who work unskilled in school today, do not meet the character requirements for learning. [[The President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e534	Elisabeth Aspaker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e537	I experience that the Council of State is minimizing the teacher crisis that is now threatening Norwegian school. It needs to be much stronger if we are to be able to recruit the many thousands more applicants for teacher training in the next two to three years, and if we are to have them trained in 2020. I would like to challenge the Council of State whether she believes it is to take the country's leading knowledge workers seriously when, with today's continuing training course, we are going to offer them continuing training every 35 years. Is it to take the country's knowledge workers seriously when the government does not want to take initiatives to create new career paths – with increased performance and salary – in the classroom? Is it serious to take the country's knowledge workers when, after eight years, the government is at about the same level of continuing education as when they took over, despite seeing the challenge we are now facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e544	The last one is not true. There's been an increase of about 30 pst. in the case of continuing training. That means it's moving forward – but too slowly. I fully agree with that. Local authorities need to make much more use of the continuing training available. It's completely misunderstood if you think you can only learn from the teacher recruitment needs we're going to have by 2020. We also have to make sure that many of the teachers who are in other professions today come back to school. I think it is quite surprising that the right does not listen to what the teachers themselves say, namely that several of them would have been at work in school if they had a better chance to follow up each individual student, and that you cut the test system we have with ear-marked teacher positions to try out increasing teacher's density. That's what teachers say is the main reason they switch from school to elsewhere -- the feeling of inadequacy. Then it's also important that we get more of those who are now approaching retirement age, to stand longer in the profession. All these things are that... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e555	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e559	The council said in its first response that she wanted drag help from the opposition. In relation to what she has called the opposition before today, this is strange. But if the government had listened a little bit more to the suggestions that, among other things, The Christian People’s Party has promoted, it may be, that the share of the people who want a great disintegration in the government had diminished. But leave it. Let me be constructive and bring some drag help to the government. There is a comprehensive proposal on the table in Stortinget now, which is about the status of the teaching profession, so it is not lacking on proposals either from the Christian People's Party or the other opposition parties to join in and give it the drag. The problem is that the government has decided that only their own solutions are the best. How do you wish, for example, for example? a follow-up to the first year of school? Will the government now consider a mandatory mentoring scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e570	The mentoring and follow-up of the newly educated teachers is very important. We have an agreement with the KS and the Education Association to ensure this. It is not accommodating to the Educational Association or to the Teachers' Organisations, because they want more freeing up both the mentors and those who are to receive guidance, i.e. the newly educated. It's basically a question of negotiation between the parties. I am very concerned that more people are going to have such a kind of follow-up, and fortunately we now see that very many municipalities report that they have good follow-up, but it can certainly be better. With regard to career paths in school, which I believe is also very important, we have a cooperation – a GNIST – with the parties, where this has been the subject. What I'm concerned about is that if we're going to find ways to reward teachers who are in the educational situation better, the parties also have to agree that that's the way we're going to do it. Here I am engaged in a good and constructive dialogue to establish more career paths and opportunities for teachers in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e577	Then we go to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e580	My question goes to the Minister of Labour. In March 2010, occupational rehabilitation, rehabilitation and temporary disability benefit were combined into one benefit: work clearance. 71,000 people were converted — which Nav likes to call it — i.e. moved from these three benefits to redundancy pay. The promotion party is concerned that as much as possible with reduced working capacity should receive a real assessment, a real follow-up and a real chance to return to work. We believe it is a strength for individuals and for society. In March 2014, the vast majority of the 71 000 will have completed their period of redundancy payments. The big question is, what happens to these 71,000? I have tried to address this several times with the Minister of Labour. Let me quote from a letter that I received from the Minister on 29 April. There she says that in the spring of 2014 there will be “a ‘pucket effect’, as there are many who then go out of the maximum social welfare period.” The council calls it a ‘pucket effect’. I call it an unpredictable bomb, precisely because they have gone for four years without getting a real assessment, without having had a real explanation as to whether they can continue in working life or not. Further in the letter, the Council of State says: ‘The Directorate of Labour and Welfare aims at clarifying all users with converted decisions on unemployment benefit by the end of February 2014. The Directorate follows closely the counties. production and propulsion.» My questions are simply: what kind of production is going on, and what kind of clarification? Does this mean that everyone should be considered through a new work capacity assessment? And does Nav have the resources to implement it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e594	We introduced redundancy payments to ensure that several of those who were out of work and who were too sick were followed up. Therefore, the work clearance schemes have resulted in more people being followed up than before. Many get into work, many want to work, and many have received a labour market measure that has helped them to get into work. But not everyone can work. Some are simply too sick, and they end up on disability. Those who get into disservices don't represent a 'bomb' in our society. On the contrary, we want to make it easier for them to work, because we're introducing a disability benefit that makes it easier to combine disability benefits and work. I have great faith in that will work. But we are now looking at the figures that we have, that the share of redundancies is falling, that the share of redundancies is falling, and that there is less going from redundancies to redundancies than before. This is one of many examples of the functioning of the main intention of the Nav reform. Then there are many people in Norway who do not get the follow-up they want, who have received a labour market measure that is not consistent with what gives them jobs. Therefore, I believe that the most important thing now is to ensure even better follow-up of each one. It is important now to ensure the quality of labour market measures. Then we see that what gives the greatest effect is follow-up in ordinary working life. Therefore, the government wants to strengthen its efforts, but the main intentions of the Nav reform work: several receive help. Many people need even more help. The Youth Guarantee is one of several answers to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e601	I record that the Council of State still fails to answer the questions. I know the statistics. The statistics can be accessed at Nav's websites and obtained. You don't have to read it in the staging room. What I'm wondering about is that the Council of State says that it's now going to be easier to combine work and disability. This means that the Council of State admits that we are going to convert people from redundancy payments back to disability benefits to see if we can draw out their working capacity. It is, in my opinion, a completely strange strategy when we know that there is an early follow-up – good and close follow-up – that is going on. We also know that projects and research show that 25 pst. long-term unemployed people have the opportunity to return to work provided that they are incredibly close and follow-up. Then my question becomes again: What kind of follow-up is the state council going to launch? She doesn't say anything about that. What kind of follow-up? Is there a number of areas of action, or does it mean fewer areas of action, which the government's policy has led to so far?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e608	Yes, it means more areas of action, but it also means work with better quality in the areas of action we have. I can't give an answer to what all these very different people are going to get from follow-up. Many have been investigated, and you look at their ability to work in the face of disability, because Nav considers it an opportunity. Others in turn provide education or other types of labour market measures to get them to work. However, the figures are quite clear: the share of health-related benefits is falling, the proportion of beneficiaries of social assistance is falling, and the proportion of unemployed is falling. There's something that points in the right direction. The point of the new malpractice reform is that if you combine it with work, you should not lose a share. I have great faith in that, and I know a lot of bad guys who want to work more than they do today. Then they get an income hedge through the disability benefit, but they get more to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e613	There will be two follow-up questions – the first question is from Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e616	This is an incredibly important topic, because it is about how we are going to make sure that those who are doing a little bad in the labour market can actually become part of the labour market and not be passively passive through social schemes. I think the council is taking it a little bit easy, because here you're squeezing around with numbers that give the impression that things are going in the right direction. We have e.g. It has been heard that the number of disabled people has decreased – that is what the Council of State said – but on Nav’s pages, which you can check on the Internet from this room, there is therefore an increase in comparable figures. It is true that the proportion has fallen, but it has to be seen in the light of an enormous increase in labour migration during the same period. This means that while we receive immigrants to do jobs in Norway, there are still more people today than we did ten years ago. Although you now have enormous opportunities in the labour market to get them to work, you choose to pass them on and replace them with immigrants. How many of the 68 000 that this is about, does the Council of State think it's going to be disapprove of? What ambitions does she have in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e625	Nav can't give me any concrete number of numbers on how many people they think are going to end up in dissatisfaction, but that's the point: there isn't one solution for many of these people, who are completely different. The truth is, this is going in the right direction. The representative shall sit on the Financial Committee. Only the estimates of public expenditure from December 2012 to the revised 2013 show a decrease of 5 billion. kr in the expenses of the public sector. It's because there's fewer people on sick leave, there's fewer people on disability than we thought were the estimates, there's fewer people on redundancy pay, and people postpone their retirement age. The cost of public health is much lower than what we thought in December 2012 because we succeed in the line of work. I've always said that it's the part that goes down, and that's the most important thing. We need to work further to get the disability down. It's about closer follow-up of the individual, because there's a lot of people who want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e634	Torbjørn Røe Isaksen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e638	As this question shows, in Norway, although unemployment is low compared with many other countries in Europe, our exclusion is high. A good way to show it is by looking at the employment rate, the degree of employment. In 2006, when the government had taken over an upturn from the Bondevik II government, the employment rate was 70.9 pst. In the first quarter of 2013, it has decreased to 68.3 pst. According to the SSB figures, the employment rate has declined every quarter since 2008, and is now lower than ever in the government of Stoltenberg. Do the Councils agree that the employment rate is lower than ever since 2006?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e645	Yes, what we see is that the proportion of the unemployed is lower than in the past. But we see that some industries are exposed, and that is primarily the export industry, because there is a crisis in Europe. What we are told about from the Norwegian Bank, from the Labour Force Survey to Nav, is that there is an increase in jobs in all industries, but that there is some uncertainty about the export-oriented industry. That is because the crisis in Europe can also affect us. So I do not agree with the figures presented by the representative. They have been quite thoroughly rejected. There are more people working than ever, but parts of Norwegian industry are at risk at a time when there is a major crisis in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e652	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-29.ana.ud208e665	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
