ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e50	Honourable co-representatives! Former Depositary Representative Halfdan Hegtun died on Christmas Day, 94 years old. Hegtun entered the Grand Duchy of the Left in 1965, when he conquered the party's first mandate from Akershus since 1918. Hegtun was a philologist in 1946 and was a lecturer for two years. At the same time he started his long journalistic career in the NRK, where he among other things. was the foreign editor and for eight years the programme director. He was considered one of the largest of the NRK’s informants in the pioneer period after World War II. Hegtun was also one of NRK’s great humorists – especially he is remembered as the character Even Brattbakken, the oral rapper and the popular small user from Toten. Halfdan Hegtun mediated popularity, contagious moods and joys of life, but also serious from international disasters and national mourning hours. Hegtune sat on the Storting for two periods, from 1965 to 1973, where his social commitment marked his work. He was the rapporteur of the public opinion when it was adopted in 1966. Here he fought for a pension supplement for pensioners over 70 years of age, and for this he was called the father of the special supplement. After the division of the Left in 1972, he formed the Liberal People's Party together with other leading Left politicians. He was later central to the work of the reunification with the Left. Halfdan Hegtun also had a long local political career, both as chairman in Bærum and as county representative. He sat on the municipal board until 2007 and met as an alternate as late as 2011. In all his political responsibilities, he was a spokesman for the weakest in society. He was particularly involved in hospital policy and led, among other things. the investigation work on a patient representative. He had a number of public offices and was a member of countless governments, committees and selections. Hegtun was also active as a writer. He published a series of books, where most people take care of European history and politics, but he also portrayed local history from the dead in its unique way. Halfdan Hegtun had a lot of work and work capacity all his life. He was a pensioner with a high pace and great joy of life. He was awarded the King's medal in gold in 2010. We thank Halfdan Hegtune for his work and shine peace over his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e82	Representatives Sverre Myrli, Sylvi Graham, Lise Christoffersen, Anette Trettebergstien, Karin Andersen, Karin S. Woldseth, Harald T. Nesvik, Håkon Haugli, Magnhild Melting Group Kleppa, Anne Marit Bjørnflaten and Arild Stokkan-Grande, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the state of Buskerud, Ida Marie Holen, has taken the seat. Mr Dagfinn Højbråten has applied for leave from 5 February to 7 February to attend a meeting in Washington as Chairman of the GAVI vaccine fund. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Kjell Arvid Svendsen, is called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e141	Kjell Arvid Svendsen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e160	I'll just say a few short words about the wise decision that the presidency has unanimously taken. We present today a recommendation on the regulation of the salary of the members of the Supreme Court. The salary of the judges in the Supreme Court was significantly raised in 2007 and has been at the level of the development of the national leadership salaries. An important recruitment group to the Supreme Court – alongside lawyers – has traditionally been judges from other courts, mainly law enforcement. In 2012, the salary of the leading Judges was regulated by around 4,5 p.m. and the Presidency proposes a corresponding increase for the Judges of the Supreme Court. The Presidency is concerned that the judicial offices of the Supreme Court must be attractive to our most competent and experienced lawyers. It is worrying when there have been few applicants in the subsequent hearings of the judicial services, although due to high qualification requirements, a large number of candidates for these posts cannot be expected. In the coming years, more posts will be provided, and the presidency believes that there is reason to follow the recruitment process closely. It is necessary to aim at the breadth of the candidate body in such a way that the judges appointed have a varied professional background, from both the public and private sectors. On this basis, the unanimous recommendation of the Presidency is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e180	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e196	A saying says that there should be strong back to carry good days. There is no doubt that we in Norway are in an exceptionally favourable situation compared to our European neighbours. The Norwegian economy is bottom-solid. We have great natural resources, a high level of competence and a resilient business. Unemployment is low, and we have growth in the economy. Large oil and gas findings and a high oil price lead to large investments in the petroleum sector. It creates ring-effects for the supplier industry and technology environments throughout the country. But the glamour cracks in other areas. In the last few months, several reports have been presented that show an increasingly clear division of the Norwegian economy. The economic survey presented on 29 November 2012 confirms that the oil and gas sector is going very well, but that other export companies are falling even more. For the fourth quarter, they fall to a level corresponding to the last quarter of the financial crisis. In addition, investments in mainland Norway are the lowest in 40 years. The SSB cyclical survey survey presented on 28 January of this year confirms the same picture. The evening post writes: ‘The two-part division in the Norwegian industry is increasing. The good part reports a shortage of labour [[...]] [[...]] The question is, how can we secure jobs in competitive sectors other than oil and gas? Norwegian economy and jobs are increasingly dependent on the petroleum sector and the high oil price. It makes us vulnerable. For years we've been able to enjoy ourselves over high oil prices – still it's well over $100 the barrel – but we don't have to spend more than 15 years back to find a price between $10 and $20. It's hard to predict how the price will develop in the future, but we have to take into account large variations. In the same way that high oil prices have given rise to high employment, wage growth and rising housing prices, falling oil prices can produce similar negative ring-effects. That is why we need a strategy to increase our competitiveness and ensure a robust business life where jobs have more legs to stand on. There are three issues I want to travel in this interpellation. The first is the challenge of high cost growth and low productivity growth. The second is the challenge of Norway’s low-scores on research and innovation. And the third is the challenge of access to capital for business. It is the labour force that finances our well-being, and there is an increase in labour that provides a basis for increased well-being. Norway is a country with high wages. High wages are a good thing we have to take care of; the challenge is to finance them. Norwegian workers have had a real wage growth of 43 pst. Since 2000, while our trading partners in the EU have had a real wage growth of only 8 pst. If wage growth and wage levels are to be sustainable over time, productivity growth must be at the level of wage growth. It's not. While productivity growth was high, and higher than in our trading partners, from 2000 to 2005, it has since been low, and lower than in our trading partners. This development contributes to our businesses getting out of a stagnant European market, and we grant ourselves well-being that over time is unsustainable. How to work smarter and raise productivity is high on the agenda in several countries. Denmark, New Zealand and Australia have all set up commissions to advise on how countries can increase their productivity. The Danish Productivity Commission has presented its first report, 'It is about prosperity and prosperity'. It illustrates the consequences well. If Denmark had had the same productivity development as Sweden in the period 1996–2011, it would have been able to ‘introduce free public transport, employ twice as many teachers at 1st to 5th school steps, build nine new hospitals each year, or triple the assistance’. It gives cause for reflection. The right has presented a proposal to establish a corresponding Commission in Norway. The proposal is being discussed in Stortinget. The rules of action for the use of oil money are important, both to ensure future generations and to avoid the rapid decline of the competitive sector. If oil money use is increased too rapidly, the cost pressure will lead to job losses. But the level of oil money usage is just one side of the debate. Equally important is how the money is spent. If the use of oil money contributes to postponing the necessary transition in industry and the public sector, the loss of wealth due to a reduction in productivity growth can well-emerge the welfare gains that lie in oil money. However, if oil money is used to invest in knowledge, research, infrastructure and good framework conditions for small and large enterprises, oil money will contribute to increased and sustainable growth in the economy. This was also agreed by the Workers' Party when the rule of action was established. Then the government said: ‘The Government therefore places considerable emphasis on the use of the action space provided by increased use of oil money in a way that will also enhance the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy.’ Secondly, it pointed to lower taxes, knowledge and infrastructure. Under the Red-Green Government, the Workers' Party has left this understanding. If we are to be one of the world's most expensive countries to produce, we must be one of the world's smartest countries to run business from. Even though the oil provides great revenues that benefit us all, it is the knowledge of the people who work in the industry that makes it possible to pick up values from the ocean floor. It's the same in other areas. Before we can share, we must create. The well-being of the future depends heavily on future jobs being based on knowledge and skills. Then we can't be satisfied that we score low on research and innovation. We have a resilient business, but in a globalized world, we have to keep making sure we get better. A few weeks ago, the government, led by the Prime Minister, asked three government councils to present government policy on research. In this area, the government has a lot to prove. In his first government budget, the government cut sharply in the Research Fund. Later, the job was cut off in higher education, followed by the winding-up of both the Research Fund and the gift-enhancing scheme. In four of the last five years, real growth in research appropriations has been lower than the growth in the state budget. Research has been down-priority. The new government offensive was, in effect, recycled proposals and get new commitments or ambitions. Rather, on the contrary, Minister of Industry Trond Giske insisted on the Address Paper that the research pace and innovation in Norway are not so dangerous as in the countries with which we compete. I fundamentally disagree with that. Therefore, the Right will increase research efforts both in public and in enterprises. We want more nutrient-oriented doctoral studies, we want to expand the TaxFUNN scheme, we want to strengthen the focus on nutrient clusters, and we want a strategy to build world-leading university environments. Conducting a policy that makes our country better and smarter is helping to secure competitiveness. However, we also need to reduce the additional costs of bureaucracy and forms. The government has been high on the track. Some proposals have contributed to a reduction in costs, but the reality is that new requirements have increased more, so that business costs have increased. Good ideas are important, but if they are to be realised, capital is also needed. Norway needs strong and diverse ownership. Instead of facilitating the spread of power and local ownership, the increase in the wealth tax on working capital by the government has helped to give foreign owners a clear competitive advantage at the expense of Norwegian owners. New and stricter requirements for banks are necessary in the wake of the financial crisis. The right-hand side supports this. However, it is important to be aware that stricter capital and liquidity reserves requirements are priced. Loans are becoming more expensive, and it becomes more difficult for banks to hold up their lending capacity. This will significantly affect the ability of enterprises to invest and jobs. The NHO ‘Economic Review 4/2012’ reads: «Banks may be in the process of playing their role as sources of longer-term lending capital to business. Over some time, there is little doubt that it will reduce growth and innovation in the Norwegian economy. [[...]] This cost of the new banking regulations is important to take into account.» There are different signals coming from government parties, but several have called for Norway to go beyond the rest of Europe, and to move faster than our neighbouring countries. In the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, new taxes on banks and the financial industry are proposed. These will make banks smaller, and no more, robust, and they will make loans to businesses even more expensive. The situation of firms that are not large enough for the bond market could be exacerbated. I do not challenge the need for new regulations and requirements. But the question is whether the Minister of Finance sees that the costs of reduced credit flows to the business sector are underestimated when you look at the sum of what we have to do, and the red-green politicians want to do. I hope the Minister of Finance in his reply will clarify the government's strategy to ensure knowledge and competitiveness for Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e262	First of all, it's going well in the Norwegian economy. But there are some challenges that need to be addressed, and I'll get to that. If we look at the growth of the mainland economy last year, it's probably above the historical average. Employment is significantly higher than before the financial crisis. Unemployment is low, and therefore it is not entirely correct, as the interpellant says, that the government is empty of ideas and out of action. The results show something completely different. At the same time, there are some trends: we see a division of economies, where the activity of industries related to oil activities is high, while traditional export industries are struggling with low demand, strong crowns and high cost levels. Oil business will be with us for many years to come, but we know that activity in the sector will gradually decrease. It will require changes in the economy. A high level of costs in Norway makes migration more demanding. If we, for example, if the oil price falls, it will quickly be able to force the needs of business to change. This is a challenge both for the authorities, for the social partners and for the business community. Therefore, the government will – and will – pursue policies for growth, adaptability and fair distribution. We have built a framework for economic policy that facilitates stable development in the Norwegian economy. Therefore, the rule of action and the framework related to the management of oil resources are important and crucial for the development of the Norwegian economy, and also crucial for phased oil revenues gradually into the Norwegian economy at a level that can be maintained over time. When we save what we don't spend abroad, we screen the dollar rate from large and varying currency flows from the sales of oil and gas. At the same time, national use shall be adapted to the economic situation. When there is high activity in the economy, in line with the rule of action, the government has kept the use of oil revenues below the expected real return in the fund. It helps to dampen the pressure on the krone price and thus also the pressure on the competitive sector. The rule of action and the State pension fund abroad are therefore the best friend of the sector at risk of competition. It is important for me to stress that creating uncertainty about this framework will make a poor contribution to the competitive sector in Norway. Therefore, I hope that the interpellant in the further debate is clear that this framework, which has served us well, is also a policy for which the Right stands, and that the Right will be indispensable in its possible negotiations with the Advance Party after the elections – if there is to be a majority for such a government. In other words, there is no room for the ‘experiments’ and the proposals put forward by the Progress Party with regard to the action rule. Our businesses need clarity about this now. Financial policy must work together with monetary policy in order to stabilise the economy. It's important. Cooperation in income policy is also important. The three legs of the economy – fiscal policy, monetary policy and income policy cooperation – must be taken into account. The aim of this is to establish a common understanding of the economic challenges we face, so that we can keep unemployment low and employment high over time. Therefore, we must have a competitive business that is capable and capable of distorting competition. Wage growth must be kept within a framework with which business can live. Therefore, the government has now set up a public body to look at wage formation in Norway and the macroeconomic trends that may create challenges in the future. The growing importance of the oil industry and the development of productivity in recent years are among the trends to be considered by the sample, so here we have a possible response to what is called for by the interpellant in the proposal under consideration in the Storting for a productivity commission. The sample already set down shall include, inter alia, the following: look at the development of productivity. Financial stability and the functioning of the financial market play a major role in the growth capacity of the economy. In the legislative developments currently taking place, and as the Stortinget will be presented subsequently, we will build on the strengths of regulation and supervision. It is good to hear that we agree on the goal: there should always be safe and solid banks. It is clear that the considerations which the interpellant calls for in terms of competitiveness also in the financial sector are of the assessments made in the design of that legislation. The various economic policy frameworks should facilitate the proper functioning of oil activities with other continental competitive activities – and vice versa, to say the least. A well-functioning tax system is also important for growth capacity and fair distribution. Therefore, the government is now working to set up an expert committee to look at improvements, which will look at the Norwegian tax system in the context of international developments, and which will assess whether the Norwegian tax system is well adapted to international developments. It is also an important step to work with both competitiveness and economic development in the future. Norway is one of the countries in the world with the highest income per capita. The high level of income is a result of many decades of good economic growth. This is mainly due to high productivity. If we look at the last 20 years, Norwegian mainland economy productivity has been in line with growth in Sweden, America, Japan, and clearly better than in Denmark. It is true that productivity fell somewhat after 2006, but it is not right, as the interpellant claims, that it is a strange challenge. We saw a similar brake in Sweden, in England, and in many of our trading partners, so it's probably due to economic conditions. It is important to be aware that when there is a setback in the economy, as in the financial crisis, output often falls more than employment, because enterprises hold on to employees and competences pending better times. As a result, there may be a fall in productivity. But for there to be no doubt: it is a central goal for the government to strengthen productivity in the Norwegian economy. That is why we are constantly working to develop the workforce, so that we also have a resilient, well-qualified and productive workforce in the future. That is why we are pursuing an active labour market policy. That is why we work for a good pension system, good rules for disability benefits and good income insurance schemes that stimulate employment and provide adequate security for each individual. Therefore, we prioritise investment in the future workforce, from kindergarten through primary and secondary schools to colleges and universities. The latest international studies on students' knowledge show that we get results from primary school investment. Research and development is another field for promoting innovation and productivity. If we look at publicly funded research per capita, Norway ranks at the top of OECD countries and clearly the highest in the Nordic countries. Since 2005, there has been a real growth of 32 pst. in the research appropriations. This government is betting on research. With significant appropriations for road and rail over several years, the government has overfilled its national transport plan, which is now due to expire during this year. The strong commitment to commerce is going to continue. Looking ahead, the outlook for the Norwegian economy is good, and growth is expected to stay up. As the growth of our trading partners takes place, the market conditions for Norwegian exports will improve. In the business cycle of the Statistical Centre, which was presented last week, business managers in the export-oriented industrial industries assess the short-term general outlook as improved. They expect an increase in production volume and order entry. We'll never be able to fully shield the economy from disturbance and shock. There'll always be swings. Enterprises and the labour market in Norway show good ability to convert according to changing circumstances. The economic policy framework facilitates this. It's the labour force and not the oil we live on. That's the way it is today, and that's how it's going to be in the future. This is the basic idea on which our economy and our well-being are based and on which it must be built. This is also the basic idea on which government policy is based. It also carries into a new time. We live on the work of each other and not others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e311	It is at least a good start that we agree on two things, namely that a lot is going well in Norway, but that we have significant challenges related to the two-way division of Norwegian business. However, I must note that my claim in the interpellation that the government is 'empty of ideas' was confirmed by the Minister of Finance's statements. With the exception of maintaining oil money use – which in itself is not new – there was little to be found for those engaged in non-oil and gas competitive sectors. On the right, we fully agree that we should keep the oil money in use, but we are concerned about how the oil money is used. It does not matter how we use the oil money into the Norwegian economy — whether the oil money is used in such a way that we are actually postponing the necessary transformation in the business and public sector, or whether the oil money is used to build up under the long-term growth capacity of the economy. Let me challenge the Minister of Finance on three concrete questions. The first relates to research and innovation. There is the reality that real growth in research has been lower than the growth in the budget for four of the last five years. I see that the Minister of Industry in the Address Paper says that it is not serious that we score low on research and innovation. Question 1: Does the Minister of Finance agree with the Minister of Industry that it is not serious that we score low on research and innovation? Question 2: I drew up in my interview the issue of capital access to business. I note that the Minister of Finance agrees that this must be looked at. But it becomes so round and alert that I will ask the Minister of Finance to answer if he sees that strange demands that go beyond the requirements agreed on internationally, and a curious desire to move faster than our neighbouring countries, will lead to more expensive loans for business and poorer access to capital for new projects. There are already signs from large parts of our business that it is harder and more expensive to raise capital. This is reinforced by the government's doubling of the wealth tax on working capital. The last question, also addressed by large parts of the competitive sector, concerns the agency directive. I know that Norwegian industry and also trade union movement environments are concerned about exploiting the possibilities of exemption under the agency directive. Will the government do that so that the enterprises that need foreign labour can get it on more favourable terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e326	First, I confirm that the representative Sanner did not answer my main question, about the relationship with the rule of action and the relationship with all the proposals that the Progress Party has had. Last night it was – I think it was on Dagsrevyen, or at least on the news – a discussion between Right Bent Höie and the representative Bård Hoksrud of the Progress Party on the use of oil money. It was – to put it mildly – a rather significant distance between the two, and the attitude of the Progress Party is that here it is only to ‘get on’ using available means. It is essential and important that this vision is now made clear to the Right. A former prime minister, Jan Peder Syse, once said that what is right is not to be repaired. When I emphasize as strongly as I did in my post that the basic idea on which government policy is based is that we live by each other's work, it's an idea that stands through time and space. It may well be that this idea is not new, but the point is that it is the backbone of economic policy. So we see – and that's why we're working on processing and developing the workforce – that it's necessary to fine-tune that idea. But the basic idea is firm, and it is as good today as it was when the Workers' Party in its time promoted the slogan "All the people in work". So to the three questions. As I pointed out in my post, the publicly funded share of research is top in Norway – 32 pst. increase in real terms in the 2005 research appropriations. As in other areas, the composition of research is also important. So it's both the level and the content of the research that's important, just as the representative Sanner is concerned that it's not only the use of oil money that's important, but also the content of the use of oil money. So about the banks: what's important here is that we need solid and good banks. It is a competitive advantage for the Norwegian economy. Without my having gone into it carefully, I am quite certain that profitable corporate investments will receive funding. It's pretty important to have that starting point. But then, of course, we are both responsive and aware that Norwegian banks live in a competitive situation. Therefore, at Nordic level, we have said that banks in Norway will meet the same conditions of competition, whether it is a Norwegian bank or a foreign-based bank. The temporary agency directive is another council member, so we can wait for the answer that the Ministry of Labour will get.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e339	I would like to start by thanking the interpellant for bringing up a recurring, but nevertheless important theme. Ever since we started the phase-in of oil money in the Norwegian economy, it has been important to have an awareness of what it actually does with Norwegian nutrient structure. However, I find it difficult to share the interpellant's input and situation description. A few days ago, we got the SSB's economic surveyor, which shows a cautious rise for the industry. The difference between industries has become a little bit smaller. To quote Harald Magnus Andreassen in First Securities: «There is less stretch in the total layer». Then I will not minimize the challenges facing Norwegian industry, but nevertheless I think there is reason to reiterate the Minister of Finance's point that something reduced productivity in the workforce is not a strange phenomenon. This is something that very many of our trading partners have experienced during the financial crisis. The productivity growth in the Norwegian mainland economy has been clearly better than in the major EU countries. Then I would also say that the best measure of success is what happens in reality. I have found many examples, but to give one: New figures show that Norway is the best in the Nordic region on the establishment of gas companies. At the same time, we are the worst in the survey on framework conditions for the same gas companies. Why? Yes, because strong trade unions, property taxes, etc. are theoretical objectives of poor framework conditions. But the important thing is what actually happens. In my opinion, it is better to have good results in reality and bad results in theory than vice versa. Our good results show that we have viable gas cell businesses like never before. Truer wants a strategy. The obvious feedback that we get when we're out visiting businesses is that we have to keep track of the economy. They depend entirely on the fact that the difference in interest rates will not be too large for our trading partners. They're totally dependent on the fact that the dollar price doesn't get too strong. Clearly, it is challenging when parts of Norwegian business go down. It makes great demands on the budgetary policy that we are leading this house. My main point in this debate is that without the rule of action, the discussion we have now would probably be completely irrelevant. The non-oil-related part of the economy would be marginal. Although the international recession now reinforces the competition challenges facing the Norwegian land-based industry, the large picture, historically, is that we have managed to maintain an industrial structure that is surprisingly varied given the pace at which we have developed Norwegian socket. I don't think there are any similar international examples. There are several factors that have been important, but I will in particular bring forward a well-organised working life. It has been a prerequisite for the front-school model, which is absolutely essential to control the cost growth that the representative Sanner is so worried about, and not least I want to bring forward an oil money use that is subject to the rule of action and yet adapted to the economic cycle. Both of these pillars are now challenged by the right hand parts. When the opposition does not clarify the foundation of economic policy, it challenges the very life base of the export-oriented, land-based industry. For me, it is strange to hear about the concerns expressed by the interpellant, without showing any willingness to follow the Minister of Finance's call to be clear on the framework of economic policy. The representative Sanner acknowledges the importance of oil money, but he uses the opportunity to challenge us on the content of oil money. I think the Minister of Finance responded well to what growth-promoting measures we have now promised through considerable investment in infrastructure, through over 30 p.m. increasing research and by focusing on education. That's what results are. But Sanner thus gives no explanation as to whether the rule of action will remain in any government cooperation with the Advance Party. It is worrying in a picture where we see an opposition going to elections on huge tax reliefs of 25 billion. kr – 100 br. kr – promises that will lead to a massive increase in public money use – while having an undecided position on whether the rule of action is firm. The last Norwegian competitive industry needs uncertainty about the use of oil money and uncertainty about the foundation of our economic policy. We did not hear the representative give any clarifications in his follow-up post. He has an opportunity in his final post, and I hope he uses that opportunity to make the clarifications that we are asking for here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e362	To all those who are concerned, let me confirm that the Progress Party will conduct a responsible economic policy. There's no doubt about it. It's a little strange that when you discuss a topic as important as this: how to make the Norwegian economy go well ahead, and how to get business to have a competitive approach, you answer that if you just follow the rule of action, it's going well. Then one has to start discussing what the content of the rule of action actually is, and what all the other framework conditions mean for Norwegian business. Unfortunately, the government is jumping over the problems. Norway is going very well, but if we're going to understand how to keep this going, we need to understand why it's going very well. Then the rule of action is not the answer. Very much of the answer is oil price. Higher oil prices have led to a sharp increase in the level of investment on the Norwegian base. Only in the last four years have oil investments increased from 120 billion. kr to 207 br. kr. There is an increase in four financial crisis packages – just to compare this year with four years ago. Four additional financial crisis packages contribute oil industry to the Norwegian economy, and this is believed to be about the rule of action. Oil money consumption through the oil sector is increasing much more than oil money consumption is doing in the State budget. Only increases in oil investment from last year to this year are 27 billion. kr. That's 50 pst. more than total road and rail investment in Norway. One gives the impression that if one had invested only 2 billion. kr or 5 brd. It would be a crisis — while the oil industry is increasing its investment by 50pst. more than the total investment in these two areas. Then you should start looking at what the rule of action really is. The answer is not what you're giving the impression. The framework conditions for Norwegian industry have been discussed many times. The last time I picked it up was February 24, 2011. Then the Minister of Industry stood demonstratively and looked at the board of the VG outside the window, with his back to the hall throughout the debate, because he would rather look at the Ski World Cup. Economic policy: the Progress Party shall not ‘mudge’ out money. The Minister of Finance is completely unsubstantiated when he has such an approach. What the Progress Party has said is that today's rule of action does not give us the restriction on the use of money that we should have. The Council of State itself has said that there is no lead to the use of oil money in the State budget. It is the government that has changed the rule of action from being dedicated infrastructure, research and framework conditions to be used for anything. The Progress Party then says that we need to pursue an economic policy in which we force ourselves back to what was the point of the rule of action, namely to ensure that the oil wealth is used to invest in the growth industries of the future, and not to everything else. That is why we wanted to change the content of the rule of action to distinguish consumption from investment and to increase the possibility of spending a little more oil money on investment and a little less on consumption. It's responsible, it's not irresponsible. With regard to today's rule of action, it is actually that if you give money to State power, you can give it outside the rule of action, and they can invest in windmills in Norway. By definition, there is no inflation in the Norwegian economy. But if you spend exactly the same oil money and give it to the U.D., so that they build windmills for people in Africa, it gives tremendous inflationary pressure in the Norwegian economy. There's no logic in this. I would like to hear the Minister of Finance explain this. If he can do it, he has introduced a new economic theory. It shows how wrong it is just to look at the rule of action – when you have to pursue a responsible economic policy later on. What you should be looking at is the framework against which the industry has to compete. The payroll is there, there's no doubt about it, but none of the parties that now express concern, have voted against a single oil project. When Statoil recently presented an investment package of 55 billion. kr to the Aasta project, all the parties concerned now agreed that this had to be implemented – 55 billion. kr. At that time, the rule of action or the pressure in the Norwegian economy was not a problem. We need framework conditions for the industry. This government and the majority of the United Kingdom have introduced CO2 conditions which make it more expensive to operate in Norway than in other countries. The ability of industry to dispose of its own hydropower has been removed. It makes it more expensive to drive in this country than in other countries. Maritime industries do not receive the statutory net pay scheme, either by the Right. This is a problem for that industry. We have a positive employment growth, but when we break it down, we see that we are increasing the employment of non-residents in this country – and reducing the number of Nordics. It's a concern. We have a property tax that discriminates against Norwegian ownership in relation to foreign ownership. We want tax relief at the bottom, we want more investment in research and development, and we want an action rule that makes it possible to invest in infrastructure, not just to invest in oil.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e384	This is a debate we've had several times. We're going to dig our heads down pretty far into the sand not to see that there's a challenge here, although it also has to be recognized that very much is going well in the Norwegian economy. We're going to be very happy about that, but it's clear that a lot is driven by the oil. The government itself has repeatedly pointed out the challenge by making productivity developments in the Norwegian economy visible. It was good, and faster than our trading partners, until 2006, but it has partly stopped and is now slower than our trading partners. Combined with an explosion in cost levels after 2006, it is clear that this is a major challenge. When the finance minister mentions that the growth in the mainland industry has been faster than the trend elsewhere, and that development is good, I would challenge him a little bit to look at how much of the mainland industry is targeting oil. I am travelling around Business Norway, and there is no doubt that most people are looking for opportunities to focus on oil and oil service. That really makes us stand on one leg to an even greater degree than what we normally have done. The part of industry and industry that does not have the opportunity to get into oil is struggling. I believe that with the level of costs and productivity we now have in Norway, we actually have two types of industrial jobs and jobs in the business world. One is the one who has learned and has acquired the skills to tune the robots. The other is those who are waiting for the robots to replace the workplace. The core of the challenge for Norwegian business is to develop skills at all stages. Tax relief, transport and infrastructure are instruments to achieve this. You try to doubt that the right is on the rule of action, but there's no reason at all. What we want is to go back to the part of the rule of action that concerns how to use the money. It concerns growth-enhancing tax relief, research and competence, and industrial infrastructure. There, the NHO pointed out that the government did not have the ability to prioritise. Eight and a half of ten dollars have gone to other things than what was the original meaning of the rule of action. I think any government will experience that increasing oil money consumption, when unemployment is low and capacity utilisation in the Norwegian economy is good, will lead to cost increases. We still have to give priority to the measures that are important. The Minister of Finance was also involved in research. For the past four to five years, research budgets have not followed the growth of public budgets. It's a challenge. I think the biggest challenge is that you don't have the ability to mobilise research efforts in your private business. It says a little bit about where our knowledge progresses. One has not been able to raise the level of research efforts in private business so that we can develop the business that will actually create the jobs ahead. In fact, the government has only tightened up, both in terms of the tax FUNN and in terms of a number of measures aimed at targeting industry and the research effort of industry. There is Norway at the bottom of the countries we like to compare with. Finally, Marthinsen, which is called gas cell holdings. I have seen the same overview, but I also saw that the explanation was to a large extent that the Norwegian economy had grown. The Norwegian economy is growing because of the oil. We have a special economy that has made us create gas companies, of course, because a growing economy will have completely different opportunities to generate growth. We are left with this challenge: if we do not achieve a significant increase in productivity in the Norwegian economy, our cost level will lead to major challenges. I do not see that the Minister of Finance acknowledges that this challenge is quite great.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e395	It's going well with the Norwegian economy. We have a growth in the mainland economy that is historically high. Unemployment is record low. According to Nav today, the NRK reports that 100 000 new jobs are created in 2013 and 2014. Unemployment will fall further. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. That's why there's no reason, as the interpellant Sanner does, to draw a picture of how bad things are going, and that the government is empty of ideas – on the contrary. I will draw up some areas that SV believes need to be prioritised in the years to come, in order to make jobs safer and more competitive, as Mr. Sanner has mentioned in his interpellation. Research, innovation and conversion must be given high priority in the coming years, not least in terms of the environment and the conversion from oil and gas to renewable energy, but also in all other key societal areas, such as: health. When looking at publicly funded research per capita, Norway is ranked at the top of OECD countries and at the highest in the Nordic countries. Since 2005, there has been a real growth in research of 32 pst. The government has prioritised research and conversion. There must be an even higher priority in the coming years. It is the human capital that is the country's most important national wealth, and on which we are to build the future. The government has prioritised investments in the future labour force. After the war, the largest nursery expansion in the world is an example of this. Several primary and secondary teachers are examples of this. High-recorded resource growth in higher education institutions and universities is also an example. The latest international surveys also show that students’ knowledge is increasing, and we are ranked top among primary school students, among others. Mathematics. The increase in resources has produced results, and we need to put more effort into this in the future. There is also a need to invest in the development of the infrastructure. We've spent more money on the road and rail in the last eight years than ever before – over a hundred billion dollars more than the last Bondevik government, which created a national transport plan together with the Progress Party. This effort must continue in the coming years, but during the next transport planning period, rail investment needs to be significantly increased. The rail journey must be made, not least because of the environment, but also in order to improve and improve the efficiency of the transport system, both for passenger and freight transport. It will be forward-looking. Finally, I would like to mention labour immigration as an important factor. We have a record labour migration to Norway, and it will continue in the coming years. It will be an important resource for growth and development. The way in which we organise labour immigration will be of great importance to the future. Here, the municipal sector has an important responsibility and a great opportunity. Those who are best at organizing will also be the winners in the future. As I said at the outset, it is going well for the Norwegian economy. We have record low leave. If we give priority to the coming years – as the red-green government has laid the foundations for – Norway will continue to benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e408	The centre part shares the interpellant’s concern for a two-way Norwegian economy, where parts of the mainland industry wear while oil-based enterprises have strong growth. But I'm afraid the inter-pellant needs to blame the government for all the problems he prevents from contributing to a solution-oriented debate. This is not a theme we should discuss from the trenches, but a theme we need to address with ambitions to find measures that can restore competitiveness to our land-based industry. Sanner collects information from the Economic Survey of Industry, as provided by the NHO, to discuss the economic outlook for 2013. ‘Other Member State with oil and consumer purchasers’ is one of the headings of the NHO document. They indicate that we go into a year where we still want economic growth – employment growth, wages increase and purchasing power. There is still a willingness to invest in Norwegian business. However, there is a lopsided distribution between petroleum-related enterprises, which are more investment-oriented than before, and the traditional export industry, which has low investment plans. According to NHO’s forecasts, there are positive exceptions in land-based activities. The introduction of the green certificate has given a notable investment growth. It applies both in renewable power generation and in the development of the power grid. These are investments and increased value creation that are government-initiated. The characteristics of the government as ‘empty for ideas and action’ are low in coverage. The three-generation package presented by the government in the revised national budget in spring 2012 is another example of government contributing to innovation and innovation in the mainland industry. The paper market falls dramatically internationally. Sparse cost levels are only part of the challenge for this traditional industry in Norway. Borregaard is among the examples that conversion also benefits in the woodworking industry. The center part of my industry must be stimulated to convert also through government involvement and contributions. The peculiar cost level is driven by high wage growth and high cost prices. It is a major challenge for the export industry. In the long term, the large pay increase that has come mostly to the north is a threat to many jobs in competitive industries. The social partners have a great responsibility to balance the income balance so as not to be the wage earner of oil-based business for the entire Norwegian labour force. Moderateness may be required from wage-earner organisations, but moderation is also required on the part of enterprises. The competition for highly skilled workers has raised the cost level of professionals at risk. Truer is busy with what he calls stranger taxes. The NHO's own overview shows that the company tax in Norway has been lower than in the OECD region. In recent years, the average tax rates in OECD countries have been reduced, so that they are now 25.5 pst, at the Norwegian rate of 28 pst. So it says that in combination with the reduction of interest rates, most countries have expanded their tax base. Increased taxation of property compensates for lower corporate tax. When the government now sets down a selection to assess the corporate tax, we will have a discussion of what might be the current Norwegian action. What we already know is that once the business community has been asked for years what the authorities can contribute to, the answer is often better infrastructure. The government has delivered it. There has been a strong growth under red-green rule, both in terms of road and track and high-speed broadband. Much has been done, but much needs to be done in the future as well. There you will contribute to the national transport plan and its discussion. Then the government is to submit a district and regional message. The mainland industry in Norway is decisive for jobs and housing in the districts. That message therefore needs to be addressed in terms of industry framework conditions and conditions of competition. I am confident that both in terms of transport and regional policy, the red-green government will deliver, as it has now done, and will thus contribute to much greater security than a blue-blue government can bring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e425	It is with interest that I follow the interpellation debate and to the extent that I see that the Right travels such an interpellation in these times. It is striking that the day after it was sent to Dagsrevyen, one of Højre's collaborators almost wants to get rid of nearly 130 billion. kr on a transport project – to say the least, you get the impression – is in the Storting and preach moderation and political action to ensure that we are competitive in the future in relation to our partners, which should be our most important measure to help us continue the situation we have in Norway. The Financial Committee has just been travelling abroad to Houston and has seen large economies — large, successful economies in some areas — and has also learned that having a resource base such as oil and gas requires keeping the economy in order to the highest degree. Then it is uplifting and quite impressive that in Norway last year there was a growth in the mainland economy that was well above the historical average, taking into account the situation of both the European and international economies. It is also impressive that we are in a situation where we have such a high level of employment and so low unemployment, and that so many new jobs have been created both in the mainland economy and in the oil-based economy in recent years that it has actually been done. So there's a reason to ask ourselves, should we give up such a development? Should we give up such an economic policy? My answer is clearly no. It's rather the opposite: there's no room for experimenting. I have to say, after hearing the interpellation, that I hope that there will also be a little interpellation between the bourgeois parties as you now enter an electoral campaign with a view to forming a majority. I don't think that's going to happen. But you should direct that interference to your collaborators and ask: is it true that we are going to blow all borders? There are three conditions to maintain and strengthen the production capacity in mainland Norway that I want to mention, first of all, the rule of action. The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen makes it look like if you only spend 2 billion. I don't think that's a good idea, since we spend so much time in the North Sea. I would like to remind you of the look-up in the Dagsrevyen yesterday and a number of other suggestions from the party representing Ketil Solvik-Olsen, which means that there are almost no limits and an activity in the economy that will contribute to creating difficult, difficult uncertainties about perhaps the most important instruments we face when talking about production capacity, namely monetary policy and cost development. Do you want a limit? Do you want a rule? How is this to be clarified? It is the major uncertainty factor in Norwegian policy towards how strong we should be in domestic production for the future. I would also like to highlight the threat of starting to rock with income policy cooperation, and how dependent we are on income policy cooperation at a time when we see that there are challenges especially to the export-oriented industry, and how important it is that we have good dialogue with the social partners. That doesn't really promise a part of what we hear, especially from the Progress Party, towards income policy cooperation. The third thing I want to do is to be able to have good measures to increase production capacity in mainland Norway – many of them have already been mentioned. We've had a real growth in research at 32 pst. since 2005. It's not a cut, it's a significant growth. The investment that is made in transport is a significant investment. Exploiting much of the foundation for that type of investment by entering into fiscal policy with the aim of significantly reducing taxes will in itself be an instrument that could threaten much of what creates domestic jobs. In my opinion, the time has come to get clarification from those who interpellerate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e443	Time is not right, time is up – a comment to Storberget. 130 B.C.E. kr was the first comment from Storberg. Yeah, that's a lot of money. There is one third of the surplus on the state budget – a lot of money. But what's the alternative, what do we do with the 400 billion we go with profit? We place them in shares and bonds and in Oxford Street and Trafalgar Square and other places abroad – i.e. infrastructure abroad, buildings abroad, shares and debt securities abroad. It is then considered by the representative Storberget and others here to be a safe and secure investment in the future. I remember the experience from the stock market, and I'm also asking the representatives here in the hall to notice: it's very, very uncertain. If you go back in time, the stock market has fallen both 20, 30, 40, 50, 60 and 70 pst. in a very short time. Infrastructure investment is rarely so rapidly valued. The interpellant raised the question, How do you get the competitiveness back? When the Progress Party says tax relief, it is also because the wage increase can be slightly lower. If companies in Norway are struggling with the level of costs, what would not be better than that the state with a step-by-step fund and with a solid economy could contribute to a slight reduction in the cost to businesses in terms of wage growth? Instead of asking for 3 pst. Earnings growth could be asked for 1 pst. wages and salaries growth, and then the country and the 2 pst. contributing to the competitiveness of enterprises. That is a sensible economic policy. It's interesting to hear the councillor, who's sure he's doing everything right – and then he says, but then I've put down a sample, because I'm a little uncertain anyway. Could you not say that I don't know, I'm not sure if we're doing everything right, and so we've put down a sample? And the other thing that's interesting is that today you're taxing the value creations. It is found that instead of the state contributing to compensation for wage increases, the value creations are taxed – that is important, because it is called fair distribution. It's not fair distribution to tax the valuers! What is fair distribution is if the State can contribute to making the enterprises competitive. That's good for everyone. This with «all the people at work», on which the Council of State was concerned: Is this the last report that the state received from the Nav offices around? Is the whole people working? Is it the experience of the government's policy that all the people today are at work? Yes, then I actually think that the Council of State should listen a little bit more to some other ministers, who have a little different message than that. And once again, the Progress Party doesn't bother with oil money; we have said that we should make investments that are socio-economically profitable, and there are actually organisations and institutions, at least the SSB, that can assess whether an investment is socio-economically profitable. If an investment is socio-economically profitable, if it is better for companies to transport goods from A to B on a better path, then the competitiveness of Norwegian industry will be better. Tolls are removed, so that goods can flow better to the continent, yes, then the competitiveness of Norwegian industry is improved and competitiveness is increased. That's the point. If you make socially unprofitable investments, the Progress Party fully agrees – you shouldn't. Therefore, it is not certain that it is 200 billion or 300 billion that make sense to invest – it must be socially profitable, so that it is better for society and for companies with that type of investment than to invest in shares and bonds abroad. You can't make a rule that you don't follow, and then expect everyone else to follow a rule that you don't want. For the Council of State does not follow the rule, the rule of action, as he himself says is so good – he uses more or less, it is said that there are uncertain times, and then one injects capital into the companies and takes dividends or not dividends. You can't make a rule and then don't follow it, and then get very offended and hurt so that others won't follow the same rule. When oil investments in the North Sea amount to several hundred billion dollars a year, and the Progress Party wants to spend 5-10 billion dollars. kr more per year, so it is a scandal and completely irresponsible, and then you ask the Right to decide whether they will cooperate with the Progress Party. Is there any credibility in that? If you do not want to go over the rule of action, you should limit the investments in the North Sea and say: No, this will go beyond the Norwegian economy and put the Norwegian economy under control, it will create inflation and will damage the conditions of competition in Norway. But you don't. You make an artificial discussion about the last five billion instead of creating a proper discussion about the two hundred first.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e458	Let me conclude by saying that we have an unusually good starting point in Norway with a solid economy and low unemployment. What has been my concern in this interpellation is the challenge that can meet us in three years, five years or ten years because of the strong division that we see in the Norwegian economy and in Norwegian jobs. We are becoming increasingly vulnerable to the price of oil. The oil price and the large findings have had a major positive impact on job creation, in terms of wage levels and growth in housing prices. If the oil price falls, we're vulnerable, and we can get ring-effects of a negative kind that can hit us hard. Therefore, this debate is important to move now to ensure that Norway has more legs to stand on. I note that the Labour Party is more concerned about what policy a future government will pursue than about the two-part division that I have been involved in and that is documented in more reports that have been shown. That concern is clearly not shared by the voters or Norwegian industry. In the studies published both in the VG and in the Dagsrevy around New Year, it was found that the Right Party has the highest credibility both in economic policy and in industrial policy, and that is because the voters know that the Right is a guarantor of a responsible economic policy. I think the Labour Party will have a very heavy election if you try to convince the voters of the opposite in the next seven months. Everyone knows that the Right is committed to the rule of action, but we are concerned not only with how much oil money is spent, but also how it is used. That's exactly why, in my interpellation, I focused on research, innovation and knowledge, because it's on knowledge and competence that we need to build the jobs of the future, and we want to build the welfare of the future. That is why I would like to reiterate the question I asked the Minister of Finance, namely whether he agrees with Minister of Industry Trond Giske, who says to the Address Paper that it is not serious that we cut low on research and innovation. So it turns out that iodine, it's going to be allocated more money. However, the share of research in the budget is exactly the same today as it did in 2006, and in four of the last five years the real growth in research has been lower than the growth in the budget. Then it does not help to boast that more money has been allocated. The budget has grown by over 300 billion. kr in the last seven years, so, of course, more money has been spent. The question is whether research is a priority, and it has not been done. If we are to build the welfare of the future and the jobs of the future, we must invest in knowledge and competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e469	When I travel around and visit companies in Norway, there are many questions that come up. One of the most frequently raised questions is that we have to keep the economy in order, and that we have to have a predictable economic policy. It comes before the property tax and before many other questions that we address. I hear what the Right says, that they should conduct a responsible economic policy, but the point is that the Right – even if they have a high uprising in the Gallup now – is not going to get a clean majority. That means that the Right is not going to rule alone, they're going to be dependent on other parties, and one of the parties that the Right depends on is the Advance Party. That is why I think it is an open and honest matter that industry and business out there should get the answer to that question: Will you now, once and for all, remove the uncertainty that lies there regarding the relationship that the Progress Party has with the Action Rule? I don't think it's too much for Norwegian business to get answers to the important question. Then the representative says that we're vulnerable to the oil price. That is quite correct, and this is where the rule of action has its main function – separating fluctuating oil revenues from the use of oil revenues into the State budget. It's just a rule of a way of bubbling the Norwegian economy against fluctuating oil revenues. The uncertainty that one does not stick to that grip is quite important to clarify. Then I agree that we have a good starting point, but at the same time, there are challenges in the Norwegian economy. I want to say to the representative Tybring-Gjedde: I am not sloppy, but I see the reality as it is out there, that it is going well in Norway, but there are some challenges that we have to address. And then the first answer to that challenge must not be that we should tear down the rule of action – what is the cornerstone of economic policy, and which gives predictability to our businesses in the future. So this is probably some kind of aperitif -- I don't know if one can use that word -- or at least a foreplay to a debate that we're going to have many times in this room, and I can promise one thing, and that's that I'm not giving up until we get this clear answer from the Right. It deserves the voters, and it deserves Norwegian industry and Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e482	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e496	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e505	This issue is about promoting a separate strategy to achieve a more flexible and decentralised education provision, as part of achieving the goal of lifelong learning and the ability to increase skills across the country. The proposals also call on the government to include appropriate assignments for flexible and decentralised training provision in the UH sector. In addition, it is requested that the government set up incentives to encourage more county municipalities to take the initiative in flexible and decentralised training provision. New types of jobs require new skills, and in existing jobs, new technologies and new solutions solve work. Decentralised provision of education is therefore a necessity. There is consensus within the Committee on the need for a high-quality study offer that is flexible and decentralised. Such an offer is not least important to ensure equal access to higher education and to ensure competent labour to all areas of the country. As far as the road is concerned, in order to ensure a good offer, the disagreement within the Committee is apparent. The Government Parties refer to the Ministry of Knowledge letter on the matter. One agrees with the assessments made in the letter, and otherwise has no comments in the matter. The Committee also agrees with most of the assessments and elements presented in the letter of reply. It is in the conclusion that the disagreement within the Committee is apparent. The conclusion is as follows: the measures already in place and the work anchored in the forthcoming KRD paper on regional and regional policy will take account of the proposals made by the representatives. The opposition cannot see that the proposals in the case are sufficiently well taken care of and therefore promote the proposals in the case. An overall opposition believes that there is a need for a strategy for migration in the established education system and that the government must clearly order flexible and decentralised solutions in dialogue with the UH sector. Moreover, in view of the great need for personnel with vocational training and for engineers, the opposition will establish incentive schemes for several county municipalities to implement measures for flexible training provision in these programmes. With this, I consider myself to be done with the rapporteur-general. I expect that the various parties will get closer to their views on the matter. In different contexts, we are constantly hearing some say that Norway should become a community of competences with skilled jobs. Even one who was supposed to know much better, namely Minister of Industry Giske, comes up with this statement. Norway is already a competence society with many skilled jobs. In several areas, we are in fact world leaders – we can take the maritime sector, the oil industry, the world's best technologies in deep water drilling, technology businesses and many others. It's not the price that makes them lead, it's quality and technology. A lot of positive happens to facilitate a better offer. The Norwegian University, the Study Centre and other online services are well started on decentralised education. The UH sector is lagging behind and an overall strategy in this area will provide a much better supply. Norway needs a study offer for adults who are targeting users, wherever they live and work in the country. Many large, important jobs are far from universities and colleges. These enterprises often have the latest and best equipment. This allows for a decentralised offer to be made at work or another suitable place where both theoretical and practical instruction is well maintained. With this, I am promoting the proposals in the matter. At the same time, I would like to stress that when the Progress Party supports proposal No. 3, the establishment of new universities or higher education institutions is not at stake. There are decentralised educational services.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e531	The representative Bente Thorsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e534	When I first saw this case, I thought: Here the presidency must have bombed heavily – when one has looked this matter up on the agenda. This must be a matter that has a doctor left from previous accumulation periods. There's no revolutionary news here. On the contrary, the opposition is actually trying to open doors that are already wide open. From a joke to a serious one: Of course, the theme is both current and forward-looking. We'll see it as positive that most of what's being drawn up in the proposal is already branded or about to be taken into account in the forthcoming district and regional message, where a lot of the theme actually belongs to home. I would like to point out from various assemblies that Norway may be one of the least homogeneous countries in Europe. The economic, cultural, linguistic and historical differences between parts of the country may be striking. With a higher education structure set up in more than 50 places of study, the sector is taking care of the wide range of skills we find across the country. In addition, when we note that the vast majority of institutions already have a decentralised supply or are developing one, yes, the country is well equipped to respond to regional knowledge needs. But this isn't good enough. It is of course crucial that the dialogue with regional authorities and employment is both close and binding. Therefore, it was very important to establish the arrangements with the Business Contact Board and the known Social Contract. The results are clear to me. In my own county, the Hochskulen in Sogn and Fjordane have extensive decentralised supply, e.g. prior to teacher training and pre-school training. We see the same thing when it comes to engineering training. The University of Bergen cooperates with different companies and the University of Folkeuniversitet and adds the education of new subsea engineers to Florø – very well. The point is that established workers who want to take a new and further education are often not mobile. Then the education supply has to go out to the student. I think that in this room, most people have a common sense of how important this is. My point is that this has already been a great success. The focus on decentralised and flexible educational provision is nothing new. This theme was fully discussed in St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, Education Line, which was handled in this room in 2010. The policy was then clarified, and after that, it is also defined in the institutional target structure. So this is good looking. When the proposers seem to want to decentralize the provision further, one must, in my view, slow down a little. It is important to have a clear focus on the quality of the services that are created. I'm not saying that there'll automatically be poorer quality by decentralizing extras, but one must not forget the quality side by decentralizing these supplies. Then I have to confess that I am a bit stunned: in this matter, the Right Party loves to seek to decentralize the supply. However, before national teacher training, the same party will disassemble today's supply structure, from approx. 20 to 8 or 6. It's got different signals. So it's going in the opposite direction. Is this an attempt to ride several educational policy horses, or has Right changed everything – leaving what is the intention in this matter? That's the big question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e551	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a thorough examination of the matter. When we from the Right have raised this matter, it is because we have great impatience in developing further education for the benefit of children and young people, and not least for adults who need, and want, to build on their knowledge. The labour market is constantly requiring workers to be updated today, and we are responsible for facilitating this. Not least, we are dedicated to making use of all the new opportunities offered by the digital world today. Of course, it's challenging to discuss strategy about this, because while we're sitting here discussing, the new opportunities are being developed and tested somewhere in the world – methods and opportunities we haven't thought about. But this case does not only concern the digital world and the opportunities it offers. It focuses primarily on the need to facilitate access to knowledge building for the whole of the people – all of their lives, and throughout the country. That everyone has the opportunity to work is a very central part of our welfare society. Then we also have to make it possible for everyone to acquire the knowledge that is needed to get to work or to stay at work. That is why we are in the Right concerned with flexible and decentralised training provision. The availability must not be an obstacle to this build-up of competences. Something has been done in this area, and individual institutions both in primary and higher education are making great efforts. However, it must be said that the effort is not complete, and very dependent on individuals who have a special commitment. This is also stated by the State Council in its letter of reply on the matter. The possibilities are enormous, and our big challenge is that we are not completely freeing ourselves from traditional thinking in the use of these tools. There is also a common understanding between the Council of State and us in the Right of that challenge. Much has been invested in ICT equipment and infrastructure, programmes and tools — but it is mainly used to supplement traditional education. The right is concerned about the opportunities we have to strengthen a decentralised training provision that allows individuals to access high-quality lectures, participate actively in education and get skilled follow-up in the work, without having to be present at a specific location throughout the study period. The trials carried out in this area show that training can be triggered by the necessary staff in regions that are otherwise struggling to provide skilled labour. We have mentioned the Telemark University and their commitment to decentralised teacher training as a good example. That's good. However, it would have been even better if the students in Kirkenes had not traveled all the way to Telemark to meet the class at the meeting and to take the exam. They should be offered that more closely where they live. It's just the proximity of the residence that triggers this student group. I notice that the Council of State refers to a message to come. It is not a communication on education but a communication on district and regional policy. It seems unbelievably defensive. Such a district notification can of course follow up, but the order and clear strategy must come from those responsible for education, where it is seen in an educational policy context. I must also comment on some of the other answers given by the Council of State in its letter to the Committee. It's very good that eCampus now comes into place, and this will be a good tool. Of course, the right-hand side supports this, but would like this to be integrated into a holistic thinking and strategy. When the Council of State mentions the SAK funds in response to our proposal for a strategy for migration in the established education system – and that these ensure a flexible training offer – I must admit that I am not completely involved. We'll have to wait and hear if the Council of State can explain it to us. The fact that flexible education is now a management parameter for higher education is also very good. It naturally challenges institutions to think flexibly, but it doesn't necessarily trigger decentralised offers, as we suggest. What does the Council of State think about that? Also, with regard to our proposal for incentive schemes to inspire the county councils to decentralized education services within the vocational school offer, the answer is defensive. Nothing in the Council's replies indicates a sense of urgency after stimulating increased investment, but the answer just shows that there are some possibilities today. The score is to trigger increased bets in all of these areas. I wish for a much more offensive attitude from the Council of State and the Government parties in this matter. Fortunately, opposition parties fully agree on increased bets and on the need for a strategy. We'll get to grips with that when we get a chance to do it. In the meantime, we are waiting for a communication from the municipal committee to see if they want to increase the effort in terms of flexible and decentralised education provision for the whole population – all their lives, throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e579	First, I would like to thank the proposers for raising an important issue. Decentralised education has been an important factor in increasing the competence of the population outside the major cities and agglomerations. The first district colleges were established in 1969 and intended to provide short vocational education and to respond to the need for new types of national and regional education. Adult training was also intended as an important task for the district colleges. Norway initially has a reasonably decentralised educational structure with more than 50 permanent places of study. It has repeatedly been discussed whether we have a too decentralised structure of higher education. In the opinion of the Centre Party, the decentralised model has led us to increase the level of competence across the country and to contribute to local and regional economic development. In an ever-changing working life, there will always be a need for further education. Lifelong learning has established itself as a good concept, and the understanding of this is cross-political. Lifelong learning requires the provision of training that can be combined with work. This means that decentralised education that we are talking about today is about being able to take on-the-job training or through local career centres, study centres or study associations, whether you work in public or private business. There are a number of different infrastructure providers today. The study centre.no, which consists of a number of cooperating municipalities across the country, is one. In addition, other study centres facilitate decentralised and flexible education. The authorities have also come a long way in facilitating a nationwide eCampus with collaborative ICT solutions, primarily focusing on the northernmost countries. There is no need for an entirely similar offer of training throughout the country. Flexible and decentralised education should be able to respond quickly to local needs and initiatives. This means that those who are good at e.g. Health innovation can offer this throughout Norway, and those who are good at law can offer it. This does not mean that the quality of the offer should be lower. There are many municipalities that do a good job of organising decentralised education through their career centres. There are also many municipalities active in demand training for their population. I agree with the proposers that there is still an unsolved potential in decentralised education, in particular through the digital opportunities we have today, which we will have in the future, as the representative Harberg pointed out. It is therefore good that universities and higher education institutions have finally received management parameters for flexible education. It will challenge several institutions to take responsibility for conducting decentralised education. Neither does it have to be all the world's hocus pocus. The University of Stavanger has been streaming its lectures since 2009. Last autumn, NTNU, as the first university in the Nordic region, published lectures on the educational channel to YouTube. Over 300 lectures are now out of NTNU. The fact that it is not until 2012 clearly shows that our educational institutions have a high potential. Spending lectures online is only one option for flexible education. In addition, we need direct access to communication with teachers, supervisors and fellow students. Last night I was visiting Statped on Gjøvik, where they actively use video conferencing to connect with the rest of the Statped organisation. The Central Party believes that those institutions that dare to take the challenge of investing more strongly in the provision of decentralised education and more open and online education will contribute to strengthening their student base. It also provides flexibility for those who follow regular studies in permanent institutions. We are pleased that the Council of State signals that the Minister of State will have a systematic review of today's status, needs and potential solutions in terms of mobilisation, initiative and funding of decentralised and flexible education solutions. We believe that the proposals do not bring us any particular further, but are taken care of through today's policy. That is why we support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e607	What are we going to live on after the oil? is often said in our nation. What is our nation's capital? Those are the wise heads. And if we're going to get these, education is important. I would like to thank this representative proposal, because I think it is an important and good proposal. It shows a Right that looks a little beyond the cities – and sees the need that exists in the country. That's not what I always used to praise Right for, but this proposal I think is good. I think one here is taking on something that is crucial for the districts. Having a knowledge nation at a high international level isn't just about what Oslo, Bergen and Kristiansand are able to do with the development of competence. It is also about what the rest of the country can contribute to: getting education, getting jobs and targeting new industries — both internationally and from a national perspective. A proposal such as this, to focus more on decentralised education, will also allow continuing education and training. It will involve an opportunity to have good continuing education environments if we get to a more decentralised education than what we have today. This is also about preventing emigration – or, as I would like to say, ensuring immigration – because it actually works. It's not just about stopping the flow from the districts to the city. We know the cities are being strangled. There are limits to how much a city can grow, and what a city can accept. It is an advantage for a city that districts are able to deliver live offerings, and it is an advantage for the districts to be able to grow. This is why we believe that getting decentralised education — in a higher perspective — will be important. We're giving the municipalities a lot of new problems. We have adopted – and implemented – a new interaction reform that requires a high level of competence of municipal staff. There are people who just want to include this in a municipal structure debate – that we have to merge municipalities, so that they get bigger. But no matter how large the municipalities become, they need competence. And they need higher skills than they did before. The health and care services in Norway today are advanced. Therefore, we are required to receive more education in the districts. Another point that has been important to us is that the districts – in which the representative of the Central Party was involved – with the district colleges, and later also the colleges, have a fantastic competence in professional training, which may be just some of the skills we need in the districts. With a decentralised education, we had a better situation with regard to the competences of municipalities, and the pre-schools, namely the vocational training, had been the current competence. This is also family policy and women's policy very important. What we see is that the more decentralised education we get, the easier it is to get women to take higher education – to combine it to live at their home and to take education. This also counts very much for the Christian People's Party in order to get to a decentralised education. If we're going to get this done, I don't think it just lasts with party speeches and Christmas cards – that everyone says it's important to decentralize. You have to do some structural grips. Some measures need to be implemented. That is why we support the measures in the proposal from the Right. When we ask for some of the government’s actions, we realize that this time we have to wait for a message – even though the others have been too impatient for them to come forward with a message. We just have to record that impatience is greater in some fields than in others. I expect that today, when they have to vote against this proposal – but there are new times ahead – there will be a little bit of a move in the centre and district foot of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e628	I want to start by thanking the proposers, because the proposal provides an opportunity to systematically review what we have today in terms of decentralised education, which is very important. There is a broad consensus in the Storting that we need to have such an education. It is demonstrated that the government has a comprehensive strategy and that the measures promoted in this Document 8 are included. It is not a dramatic new grip proposed by the opposition, it is a grip that the government is already working on. In addition, right around the corner, we have a big message from the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, which addresses these questions. I have been very concerned that the government councils that have sectoral responsibilities in other areas are also concerned with the development of competence, as is the Minister of State. It's important that we have this perspective with us in all areas. We don't get a good rural policy in Norway if we don't think competence development is an essential part of it. So I want to protest intensely that this does not belong there – I want to stress that it just belongs there. So to some of the suggestions. I agree that we will have very high ambitions for Norwegian higher education in terms of availability, relevance and quality. This is exactly why we are now rolling out the eCampus programme in the sector, so that education can be made available on a large scale. This is precisely why we keep the pressure on SAC processes, so that institutions can join forces to offer a broader portfolio of offers, based on a stronger professional environment. In this context, it is important to see SAK in this perspective. This is precisely why the leadership of Norway University for the allocation of project funds has been adjusted and linked both to SAK cooperation and to the implementation of eCampus. For this reason, flexible education is now a mandatory management parameter for the UH institutions. So we're all expecting them to have this perspective. We have to look at the different instruments in the context, and not all instruments belong to the department for which I am responsible. I see that the members of the Committee from the Right are not satisfied that I mention the regional and district policy message that is right around the corner – I already have. I believe that is an essential part of the perspective. The opposition believes it is important that the eCampus programme facilitates cooperation between the Study Centre.no and local study centres around the country. The tools used through eCampus will make education more accessible, whether in a local study centre, in a self-organised study circle or at the kitchen table of the individual student. Universities and higher education institutions cooperate with a variety of actors to make higher education available outside campus. There is also a tendency for institutions to develop flexible models of their own keel that are not necessarily linked to external actors. I can mention that two of the six state colleges that cooperated with the Study Centre.no have withdrawn from cooperation after they have developed their own models. But the perspective must be maintained. The number of students in flexible studies at these colleges has continued to increase. The point must be that higher education is made available, not that a special model is to be developed. It is quite right, as the opposition members say, that new ways of distributing education through ICT open up a window of opportunity that needs to be exploited. I understand that the members of the Committee are impatient, and I agree that we must aim to have higher ambitions in this area. But I would say that Norwegian universities and colleges are on the right track on this issue. The various measures I have mentioned help drive development, but the most important work is done by each institution. They must all have this perspective. Let me do a couple of examples. College in Narvik started online engineering training in 2009, with 34 students. In the autumn of 2012, there were 172 students and, through the eCampus programme, all training rooms for engineering training are equipped with recording and meeting solutions for the interconnection of campus and network instruction. The University of Tromsø has formulated a strategic ambition to be a leader in flexible education. They set out their own resources for the project, and in 2012 they started six new flexible first semester studies. In the case of NTNU, I can also give examples. In this area, there is a raging trend, and we need to be impatient all the time to find better and better solutions for good decentralised education.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e665	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e669	The Progress Party knows that there is a lot of good cooperation in decentralised education – I think that's what most people have brought with them. We also know that there is a great untapped potential in today's educational institutions, and we believe that a national, comprehensive strategy for decentralised education will make visible and make it easier to exploit the potential that exists. The question is then whether the Council of State does not see this. Is she absolutely sure that a municipal notification will meet the important and necessary need for decentralised training provision?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e674	I think it's important that this commitment exists in all parties, but I don't think the proposals promoted in this document are very precise in addition to strengthening the price that the government has already set. We have a strategy, and it will be further discussed in the communication to be submitted by the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. We, who are responsible for education, are going all the way to expect the institutions that we are responsible for, that they are just going to participate in decentralised education, make new offers and develop their network solutions. I think we should of course make sure that we keep it pressed up anyway, but that we have a strategy. What the opposition is proposing is not really anything more than that. The Regional Minister comes back to his angle on this, so we have a high attention on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e681	I think in many ways there's going to be a bit of a strange debate now. It is said that it is a strategy, but at least we have not discussed a strategy in an educational debate on the Stortinget. Then it's a little weird that you can't keep working on a strategy, because that's what we want in place: a strategy, a general plan for how to work with these things. It's still referring to things that are done. Yes, there are things done, there may be things done in several places in the same way as before, but what's new? How are we really going to develop this in the future? I want to go back to this with the SAK funds. Once again, the Council of State repeats it. Can the Council of State give me an example where the SAC funds and SAC processes have actually led to a new offer of flexible and decentralised education?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e688	I'm already in discussion with several institutions about just how one can use SAC funds for cooperation that allow an education that is strong and well developed in one area to also be offered by another institution that is in a cooperative relationship. I'd like to come back with some more specific details of it. The whole point of the SAK funds and their establishment is that we need to ensure that the environments where we have strength can also be linked to other places of study. Take, for example: engineering training in Narvik, which offers first year study in Alta and cooperation projects. Also, through their online efforts, there are good opportunities for the competences of Narvik to be linked to other places of study. I think that's an important perspective even when we're using the SAK funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e695	I agree, of course, that it is positive that a number of places get good quality of education, but when a person tries to promise it to put in place a strategy to reach more and more where they live, it might be here that we talk past each other when the Council of State indicates that the same offer can be made by several institutions. There's a completely different level of right talking about when we're talking about a strategy for decentralised education. It's to let the individual where they are be able to participate in the education and get the exact same quality transferred. If that's the strategy of the Council of State for decentralised education, having the same good offer in several institutions or campuses, then I understand that she's satisfied. But what about that part of reaching more and more new ways, how is that strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e700	To me, it's a little strange to think that this should be two conflicting strategies, because just one of our goals of the SAK scheme and the way we support cooperation and division of labour between the institutions is to make sure that we have high quality and are able to gather resources better. When we look at it in a perspective of decentralised education, it is to ensure high quality of the offer you receive of education wherever in the country you may be. On the contrary, I believe that we need to see these strategies in the context, so that we can also offer top content in the education that you are taking, even if it is designed to make it close to where you live. With respect to reporting, I think this is a discussion where it is interesting to have a good dialogue. There are, of course, no perspectives in the proposals that the representatives of the Right have put in, which are in conflict with, go far beyond, are revolutionary in relation to, or are turning our backs on, what we have. On the contrary, there is an intensification of existing measures that representatives are calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e707	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e710	Furthermore, raising the knowledge nation of Norway requires solutions that provide better opportunities for everyone to participate in education in a lifelong perspective. This is the reason for the Right’s proposal for a more flexible and decentralised education provision in order to meet the need for an increasingly knowledge-intensive social and labour life. Norwegian competitiveness is totally dependent on a motivated workforce with easy access to training provision to update and build skills adapted to new jobs and future migration challenges. In meeting representatives of both the public and private sectors, we learn that yes, there are many good education services in Norway, but no, the problem is that they are not where the workers are and that some of the offers may need a little attention in order to adapt to local and regional needs. A very tight labour market makes it even more important to facilitate the possibility for employees in industry, health care and school to be able to increase their skills in the workplace or in the immediate vicinity so that employees can combine work and education as closely as possible. For dependants, more flexible and decentralised training provision will be a prerequisite for participating in and making use of relevant training provision. In view of this, the Government's response to the Storting is surprising. It is probably true that there are some decentralised education services, but taking into account the high demand both in the private and public sectors, barely 16 000 students are a very modest number. In meetings with universities and colleges, it is admitted that one could have gone further, but one excuses himself with scarce resources and extra costs of decentralization. To the right, the key to the wider dissemination of quality education offers is that the Ministry of Knowledge is increasingly challenging the university and higher education sectors in its regional development role, where the building of competences must be central. The ECampus solution is important, but the Ministry of Knowledge must also actively stimulate different actors such as the University of Norway and the Study Centre.no, which have over 100 municipalities as their members. In addition, we know that local and regional study centres help fill a learning gap outside larger and more established study sites. I note that the self-satisfaction expressed by the Council of State and the Government parties in this area is not in line with the need for employment to be organised and the concern expressed in the districts that access to particularly higher education is not a matter of course. Better dialogue is needed to find good and forward-looking education solutions. Therefore, the Right’s proposal for a comprehensive approach is important. It's worth noting that an overall opposition is behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e727	I felt the need to make a few comments to the representative Tor Bremer's posts. It is true, as Bremer said, and as far as the Council of State has also pointed out, there is no great innovation in the proposal that we from the Right have promoted. That's right, but asking for a strategy isn't the innovation either – it's asking for things to be put into the system. That is what we think should lie there and guide both the report of the Minister of Local Affairs and what is being done in the sector as a whole, that it is an overall strategy: where will we, what do we want? The representative Tor Bremer mentioned several good examples of good action in higher education, and that things are moved in several places. But once again, it's doing traditional education in multiple places. That's what this is about. It's very good, and it's very good that we can be active in getting it spread outwards, but the thing that the Right is after is something more than that. So it could be as the Council of State said, that it could form the basis for moving it on. So when you do it in multiple places, you can do it to smaller units. But it's absolutely necessary to go beyond that. A comment on this with the quality, which also Tor Bremer was in. He didn't really say that decentralised is equal to poorer quality – for us, it's more like we think it can guarantee quality. It has become like this, not only here in Norway, but also in the world, that the major universities with the best professors have begun to share skills, knowledge and lectures. It can be done on YouTube, like some people do, but it can also be done on live broadcast. There are systems for today, and it increases the quality of the small units in terms of education. We have to take that with us. Of course, it has nothing to do with whether we want to look at what the structure of higher education is. I heard there were some figures for how many educational institutions we wanted. I don't remember talking about it, so there must be someone else who's been talking about it. But collecting the competence to spread it through new channels is great. Then we'll strengthen the offer. In her reply to the Council of State, she said that dialogue was important in order to further develop this. Yes, we do. Then I think the Council of State summed up well. She said that the right hand part of the proposals here would like to have is the strengthening of the activities started. Quite right – and into a system. We will. That's why we're a little disappointed that we're not getting more support from the government parties today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e742	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e758	Municipal self-government is under pressure. The reason for this is state detail management where local government expenditure is tied up by government leadership rather than by local priorities. In the past, there has been some attention to the so-called earmarked appropriations, where the state grants money for purposes for which they pay in full or in part. It has rightly been presented as a strengthening of local self-government when the number of earmarked grants has been reduced. And it could have been in itself, if you hadn't found more subtle ways to control the municipalities. The main challenge for local self-government is the sum of government sectoral policies, often imposed on municipalities as statutory standards or individual rights. A common example is new state reforms introduced under full funding, but which in practice do not. The interaction reform is the last example in the series. When the State does not coordinate its sectoral interests before they are imposed on the municipalities, it will create a pressure to increase taxes and taxes. What is left of local priorities after state regulations and individual rights have been met can be very small. The temptation to increase taxes is increasing, and if the option is to get on the famous ROBEK list, it will no longer be a real choice, even for bourgeois local authorities. Central sectoral politicians believe that this division of labour is excellent. In fact, they can launch new initiatives and get their picture in the paper, while local politicians are under pressure to increase taxes. The effect of this system is not allowed to wait. 25 of the 111 municipalities that have not had property tax until now are now introducing it, and the proceeds of property tax will this year pass 8 billion. kr. Before the party of the Minister of Local Affairs, the Central Party, rolled its voters into the red-green project, their local politicians showed some restraint with property taxes. Today, you out of ten Centrifuge municipalities have property tax. 337 municipalities have introduced or decided to introduce the tax. Property taxes are one of the few taxes levied without regard to the ability and profitability of taxpayers. As a housing tax, it is not socially accurate. But it's not very good for business either. Capital-intensive enterprises receive a particularly high burden, without matching either profitability or soundness. For enterprises with low profitability, start-up enterprises with uncertain funding or in-conversion activities, which themselves require resources, property taxes may be decommissioned for damaged capital and, in some cases, overrun it. In economically weak municipalities, where the second-hand market for construction is low, the risk of investing will be extra large and, in addition, investment capacity and will be further impaired. These are some of the reasons why the Right is against property taxes and is working to ensure that it is not introduced into municipalities. In municipalities with property taxes, right-hand workers work to step down and preferably wind up. At the same time, we respect local freedom of action to impose property taxes, but the freedom to leave must be equally real. In the city tax law of 1911, the main reason for property tax in the cities was that the property tax was a distribution of the expenses the municipality had incurred, water, sewage and electricity. Later on, property taxes were used as an alternative and easier way of collecting the costs of municipal technical investments, but subsequently a two-track system developed in which municipalities both directly paid for municipal technical installations and maintained property taxes. These municipalities actually had double taxation. Today, we have come to the conclusion that property taxes have been greatly expanded and that the property tax base is going from housing, tax on power plants and infrastructure to becoming a general and general tax on all properties throughout the country. At the same time, we see clear trends in the red-green government trying to push municipalities directly or indirectly to introduce property taxes or increase them where they are introduced. Local authorities applying for discretionary means, which are in a difficult financial situation, have been required to impose property taxes as a prerequisite for obtaining their share of the discretionary funds. It is clearly stated in the letter sent from the Ministry of Local Affairs to the municipalities, which states that the county officials should be careful about allocating discretion to municipalities that have not used their own income base. Translating into ordinary everyday languages means that first you have to tax your fellow citizens maximum before you can expect help from the state. At the same time, it may be tempting for a red-green government to introduce such a premise, which will often favour partners in municipalities, which will often have the same basic attitude to taxation, namely that tax increases are more convenient than improving the efficiency of operations or prioritising tasks. But it can also in some places affect Labour Party rapporteurs who oppose the main flows of their own party, and who, after all, will not impose property taxes. These included: the experience of the Council, where the rapporteur from the Workers' Party was pressured by the County to break his own promise to voters not to impose property taxes. So this is a violation of the principle that local authorities decide whether or not they want to impose property taxes, regardless of the parties that govern them locally. The media then become a tool for the enforcement of property taxes by the state for those municipalities that are regrettators. Until 2006, the guidelines of the Ministry of Local Affairs stated that the State should not impose a tax on property as a prerequisite for obtaining a discretionary grant. This wording has been removed by the Stoltenberg II Government and is perceived in practice as a state obligation to impose an additional municipal tax. Municipalities must be required to balance their budgets, but it must be up to the municipalities to establish sound budgetary policies through adjustments on the expenditure side or adjustments on the income side. Non-proprietary municipalities should not be penalised financially and the wording removed in 2006 should be reintroduced. It is this which is the subject of my concern in this interview, and I welcome a clarification from the Council of State on what the department has intended to remove the clear instructions that it had in the past about not punishing municipalities that did not introduce property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e788	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this question and thus giving me the opportunity to clarify the misinterpretation that lies in his question. I would first of all like to state that the property tax is a voluntary municipal tax. It is neither the State nor the Ministry that will decide whether or not to impose taxes on property. It's up to the local politicians themselves. Nor is it stated in the guidelines for the ham allocations provided by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs every year that County can demand that municipalities introduce property taxes in a difficult economic situation. Local authorities are responsible for their own economy, and this is reflected in the direction lines of the ministry, as they are today. So a little bit to the history. In Erna Solberg’s time, according to the outlines for the bulwark allocation, the County Council was unable to impose a requirement for the imposition of a tax on property in order to obtain the bulwarks from Fylkesmannen. At that time, the entity was merely attached to the expenditure side and a mandatory plan for conversion. Since 2006, these guidelines have been reworded, but the legislation has not been amended. The contents of the orientation lines are exactly the same as before, but do not have a one-sided focus as in Solberg's time. The essence is that the state can – now as at that time – help municipalities that are in a difficult economic situation, with skinners. But the municipalities themselves must contribute. It is up to the municipalities whether they will contribute by reducing their expenditure or by increasing revenue through e.g.: taxes on property. For municipalities in economic imbalances, the property tax may be a means of increasing income and thus restoring the balance of the local economy. The county also has a guidance role for municipalities in a difficult economic situation. In the exercise of this role, I think it's right that the County pointed out the possibilities that municipalities have to increase income or reduce expenditure. However, they cannot advise on which income should be increased or on which expenditure should be cut. It's up to the municipality. The funds are extra money to go to municipalities in a difficult financial situation or to municipalities that have expenditures that are not well enough captured in the fixed part of the income system. I'm busy that the shields will contribute to a fair distribution that enables the municipalities to provide equivalent services. It would be unfair for one municipality to receive additional government funds without contributing itself, while another municipality with financial problems both cuts in the budget and increases revenue, for example. through property taxes, before they get money from the state. Although the legislation has not been amended, I have previously received the same question as the interpellant now asks. To this end, in 2009 the Ministry specified in the guidelines that priority should be given to increasing revenue or reducing expenditure by each local authority and determining the sources of income to be increased or the expenditure to be cut. The Ministry also issued a letter to the county officials in 2011 stating that there can be no requirement to increase specific revenue or reduce specific expenditure. In today's guideline, the property tax is not explicitly mentioned. It is still stated that the County Council should assume that it is up to each local authority to determine the measures to be implemented to achieve a financial balance. Furthermore, municipalities that have not taken action to restore their economic balance cannot be entrusted with clientele based on the municipality’s economic situation. This is important in order to ensure a reasonable and fair use of the shields. I believe that the legislation as it is formulated today is right and sensible, and that there should be no doubt that the state cannot force municipalities to introduce property taxes. At the same time, it is right that the state does not unilaterally force municipalities to cut off their services to the inhabitants. It must also be a local policy issue, which individual local councils have to decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e809	There were elements in the response from the Council of State that could contain expectations of slightly better times for municipal autonomy. Unfortunately, we have to say that what we are discussing is in a historical context where it was previously given as a framework for the exercise of discretion that one should ignore whether or not the local self-government had imposed property taxes. One initially had a decree on the neutrality of the state as the Council of State now says is the elevated principle of the governance of the sector. That's why removing this sentence that the local government minister from Right Erna Solberg had, has been taken as a signal out. You can also see the actual development in Kommune-Norway. I referred initially to the fact that there are tax increases for municipalities when the state has so many non-profit sector requirements that one does not have the power to prioritize between the sector interests and impose ideal standard requirements and individual rights on the municipalities, so that they can have the pleasure of paying for this. If no baits are used, discretionary means, the municipalities will at least have been confronted with real economic framework conditions that make them feel compelled to introduce tax incentives for their own citizens, even if it does not correspond to local priorities. I would think it was a contribution to clarification if the Council of State had allowed selected parts of its statement – especially the first part – to print and be incorporated into subsequent guides to the municipalities through the county councillors, just to say that the state has no particular expectation of increasing taxes, at least not as a condition for obtaining discretion. Then there is another thing to tackle in terms of the de facto national disposal of local resources by forcing local authorities to impose their own priorities through sectoral policies. I can say that parts of the Council's response could contain an assurance of defence for local self-government, while the government's day-by-day policy in reality consists in making the municipal autonomy more and more illusory and an external affair that has no real content.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e822	It is nice that at least parts of the council's response fall in good soil. I certainly believe that what the government has done is to extend local self-government. It is not to restrict the local self-government to allow municipalities not to cut unilaterally in the supply of the inhabitants, as Erna Solberg and Right did when one was in a difficult economic situation, but one can also choose to increase the income to avoid discouraging teachers, nurses and other important workers in each municipality. In this government's time, we have also had a strong growth in the income of our municipalities. We have covered the demographic costs, we have covered the pension costs, and we have increased the free income. In addition, we have had a historical transfer of ear-marked funds to the municipalities, so that they can use them in a broader field and use them for the areas where one needs the most in the individual municipality. It has expanded the local self-government. When a local government introduces property taxes, it is up to the inhabitants to say that they believe that the majority of people who introduce property taxes have confidence. This can be done by the local government at the next choice. It is also the case that large debates are usually held in advance, and the introduction of property taxes is not carried out in a vacuum in a closed room. Of course, it happens in a dialogue, where a number become a few themselves about what they want to do, and, as I said, it will be tried democratically at the next elections. What I hope we can get answers to during this debate is whether the Right will abolish the property tax if the Right comes back into power, and not least – and I think that will interest both residents and local peoples – if the Right will compensate them nearly 8 billion. kr that the municipalities today have from property taxes, or go back to the line that you know well from the period 2001–2005, i.e. that there was a large cut in the services of the inhabitants to finance this. I can't see that it's expanding the local self-government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e835	One of the overall objectives of the income system for municipalities is to balance the financial assumptions of municipalities and counties, so that the assumptions for an equivalent service offer to residents across the country are made. This does not mean that all municipalities and county councils should have equal incomes, but that all municipalities and county councils should be given equal opportunities to give citizens an equivalent service offer. The income system is therefore designed to balance variations in expenditure needs and variations in tax revenue between municipalities and between counties. But that's the way we don't have full equalization. On the cost side, the differences are fully balanced, while there are only 60 psts. of the tax income equalised between municipalities. This means that there are relatively large differences in the level of income between municipalities. The greatest differences in offers between municipalities are due to differences in income. The gender benefit is therefore a loving grant for many municipalities in order to address specific challenges they face, whether in emergency situations or in more structural situations, that the income system does not capture. The ordinary discretionary grant shall be used to compensate municipalities and county councils for special local conditions that are not captured in the fixed part of the income system. Furthermore, the discretionary grant is used to ensure regional and district policy considerations. When the representative Michael Tetzschner tries to draw a picture that municipal self-government is under pressure, and that the majority government is trying to push municipalities into taxing property, it is a signed image. It doesn't really have teams. It's an image that's based on a few statements. So it's true that there's a debate about many aspects of how the state governs the municipalities. We have repeatedly discussed objections in this Chamber, both during the last year and in the years before, but we have other debates on how the state should govern the municipalities – and there are healthy debates. This government has given the municipalities more than 60 billion. kr annually in increased freedom of action, because there were many dwindling municipal offices after the previous government. We've made sure that that part of the municipal income that is free, that is, that does not go for earmarked purposes, is historically large, so that approx. 94 pst. of the income of the municipalities can be disposed of as they will today. We have done that because we believe that local politicians have the best conditions to decide what needs extra effort in their municipality. We have updated the old and unfair system that distributes money between municipalities. It was a system based on estimates from the early 1990s, and a lot has happened in most municipalities since then. However, many municipalities have introduced property taxes. The reason for most municipalities is that they will maintain and expand welfare services in their municipality. They have high ambitions on behalf of their municipality and their inhabitants. Nevertheless, the proportion of income in the local government sector that is taxes on property does not increase. In 2007, it accounted for approximately 40% of the total population. 2.3 pst. of gross operating income. In 2010 it was increased by one per million, to 2.4 pst. We see that there are local priorities for property taxes and welfare, and that there are political differences — fortunately. In the Right-steered Bergen celebrated the removal of property taxes while many of the city's schools are in poor condition. For the right in Bergen, lower taxes were more important than cleaning up school buildings. It was a clear priority, and a priority that the Right in Bergen is given. In Arbeiderpartit-steerte Trondheim, a different choice has been made. The municipality collects property taxes and spends the money on welfare. In Trondheim, all schools are approved for health protection. It is a clear political priority for the Workers' Party to take responsibility for. School buildings and the learning environment of children are more important to us than tax cuts. Trondheim and Bergen can illustrate that different political choices are being made in municipalities governed by different political parties. On the other hand, property tax is that many municipalities with low tax revenues have introduced the tax. It may then be interesting to consider what will happen to the income levels of these municipalities if, for example: The right, which is the inter-pellant's party, would have an impact on its tax equalization system. We've changed the balance of tax revenue between municipalities, so that we get a fairer distribution and greater cohesion between municipalities. We have done that because we know that the main explanation for the differences in the service provision is the income of municipalities. Right wants something else. Less equalisation of taxes and the introduction of corporate taxes will mean that the municipalities with the highest tax revenue today will receive even more money and that the municipalities with the lowest tax revenue will receive less money. For my constituency, Nordland, that means 42 out of 44 municipalities will lose weight on it, after a rough calculation. The right-wing justification for this is that there will be an incentive for an active industrial policy. My answer to that is that I have not yet met a municipal politician who has not been involved in value creation in his own municipality – not because it gives tax revenue, but because it gives safe jobs to people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e869	Like others here today, I would like to thank the interpellant for the opportunity to clarify what has clearly been a misunderstanding. Property tax is a voluntary municipal tax, and County State cannot require municipalities to introduce property tax in order to receive discretionary means. The centre party has been and is clear that municipal property tax is to be a voluntary scheme. Initially, it may be useful to recall that discretionary means are extra money to go to municipalities in a difficult financial situation. What is the case — and I think it is both reasonable and fair — is that municipalities that receive discretionary means must also contribute themselves to solving the economic challenges. In order to get a better economy, there are two possibilities: either you have to increase your income or you have to reduce your expenses. It is up to each local government itself to contribute either to reducing expenditure or to increasing revenue, for example: by taxes on property. In the right time, it seems that only reduced expenditure was in focus. The interpellant is not the first to ask questions about beauty and property taxes. For this reason, both in 2009 and 2011, the Ministry has clarified guidelines to the county councillors. The clarification makes it quite clear that it is the task of each local authority to give priority to increasing revenue or reducing expenditure, and that the county council cannot impose requirements to increase specific revenue or reduce specific forms of expenditure. For the Central Party, the local People's Government is very central. Political decisions shall be taken by elected representatives at the lowest possible level in order to ensure the participation and use of local knowledge. Municipalities are the main areas of participation and influence. If we are to get good communities across the country, we have to pursue policies that allow the citizens and their representatives to solve the problems on the basis of local conditions. People elected in municipalities must therefore have the opportunity to take control of their own decisions and choices in accordance with the wishes of their citizens. In my municipality of Holtålen, which is a small municipality with a population decline, we have been receiving beauties for several years without having any property taxes on dwellings. There was never any threat that the assets would fall off if we didn't introduce property taxes. That a few years ago we introduced property taxes on dwellings and leisure homes was a choice we in the local government assumed that we would give our inhabitants even more and even better offers. There was never any theme that municipal property taxes on dwellings were a prerequisite for obtaining discretionary funds. Nor has the level of discretionary funds changed since we received property taxes. I then, of course, disregarded the beauties we got in the very special situation Holtålen was up in 2011 in connection with the flood. Many municipalities we meet when the municipal committee is around the country point out that they have high health - care costs for residents living in leisure homes in the municipality. It is health care that they have to finance without being given funds and a framework for it. The only possibility for these municipalities to receive income to cover these costs is through the introduction of property taxes on recreational dwellings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e890	I think it has been clarifying posts because they have so well demonstrated the difference between formalities and realities – roughly in line with when Henry Ford was asked if it was not possible to choose the color of the first cars he produced. Then he said, "Yes, it's quite possible, only you choose black." It's a little bit of the same tune from the red-green here, that the Central Party at the Council of State emphasises the formal voluntary nature of property taxes, while we all know that municipalities are imposed so much that there is not really much freedom of choice in terms of resources to exercise local self-government. That was what the representative Sivertsen so excellently clarified in his post, which was a tribute to the property tax. Otherwise, I can just let it be mentioned in passing that Sivertsen's arguments may not have had much internal logic by the fact that the property tax on one hand was a negligible and fortunately stable small proportion of municipal expenditure, while in some of our cities it helped to save the welfare state itself. I guess both of them can't be quite right. What I want to underline is that local economy economists, as a special area, have just stressed the connection between tax freedom and local self-government. In fact, tax freedom increases the financial autonomy of municipalities by allowing them to choose between private and public consumption in their municipality. In this way, the content of local self-government is broadened by deciding on the extent of municipal involvement and problem solving at local level. Moreover, tax freedom can contribute to more efficient resource use by allowing the standard of service provision to be based on a local cost-benefit balance. Tax payers will then accept higher tax rates as long as the willingness to pay for a better service offer exceeds the increased tax burden. Similarly, taxpayers would like lower rates if the benefit at a lower tax level is greater than the disadvantage of a slightly lower standard of service provision. In this way, local tax financing can contribute to priority efficiency by adapting service composition and tax rates to local cost and demand conditions. By allowing tax rates to vary between municipalities and between county municipalities, a decentralisation gain is achieved compared to nationally regulated tax rates. In order to realise potential efficiency gains, it is therefore necessary to accept regional differences in tax rates. That's this principle we're fighting for. That's why you don't just have to sit passive and watch that we're slipping towards a uniform state property tax in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e899	I note that the interpellant in its contribution did not do well to see whether one will abolish the property tax or how one will possibly replace the income generated by the voluntary property tax adds to the municipal sector today. I found the post where the woodpecker was the theme, gave a good example of how this works. A discretionary agent was given before an introduced property tax. The introduction of property taxes and the introduction of property taxes were never subject to conditions because of a desire to provide better services to residents. It could be about building a new school, it could be about adding more nurses or caregivers – I don't know that, but it's an excellent example of how this works in practice. The important thing for real choice in municipalities is that one has a financial framework that enables municipalities to provide good services to their inhabitants through the choices they make locally. That's why it's important that we have had a red-green government in the last two periods, which have been busy with it. The greatest possible freedom to prioritize locally, but also frames that make it possible without a one-sided focus on cuts, closures or structural changes to save money. I am absolutely sure that there are also many municipalities today that think it is tight, but it is at least tighter at a higher level than it was in 2005 when we took over. There has been a large increase in activity in municipalities, but local populaces have great ambitions on behalf of their communities. It's interesting to see to the right that the right will have greater differences between municipalities. We know that they will redeploy billions of dollars from those who have low tax incomes to those who have higher tax incomes, in clear terms to the eleven luckiest and richest municipalities. Then I'm not sure if the municipalities that lose these over 2 billion. kr will have the freedom to prioritize, if they do not come in the situation they were at the last Right in government, that everyday life is characterized by one-sided focus on cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e910	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e916	Then Stortinget is ready to go to voting in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e953	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e961	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a strategy for transition in the established education system to ensure that Norway receives a more flexible and decentralised training provision. The aim is to strengthen the country’s competitiveness by realising the vision of lifelong learning and empowerment across the population.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to include in an appropriate manner the assignment of flexible and decentralised education services for the purposes of universities and colleges.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up incentive schemes to enable several county municipalities to take the initiative in the flexible and decentralised provision of education in the field of technical and engineering studies. In order to arrive at good local solutions, different models of co-financing from the parties involved need to be opened up.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e996	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-05.ana.ud1305e1067	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
