ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e33	Honourable co-representatives! We received last night's message that Nelson Mandela is dead. With him, one of the greatest politicians of the 20th century has gone away, a politician who has meant a great deal to many Nordics and Norwegian society, as well as the great effort he has made in his own country. Nelson Mandela had a very special ability to look beyond his own fate and personal suffering. Despite 27 long years in the prisons of the apartheid regime, he was able to raise his eyes and make a peaceful transition to democracy for all South Africans. The wisdom, integrity and warmth he displayed in many critical moments stands as a model, not only for politicians, but also for the general human race around the world. His fight for freedom and justice also created a great commitment to Norway. No one forgets the magical moment of February 11, 1990, when Mandela could finally leave prison as a free man. For many Northmen Mandela is a great example, and the grief that the Norwegian people feel today is genuine. Some will also remember Nelson Mandela's visit to Stortinget 20 years ago. It was the first time the Storting broke out applause over a man who ingested this whole hall by his mere presence here in the lodge. In many countries, the transition to democratic rule has taken place following armed conflict with great suffering for the population as a result. That this did not happen in South Africa, Nelson Mandela has much of the credit for, which the 1993 peace prize also bears witness to. His expedient efforts for peace, democracy and human rights are something that all people must be inspired by. The song from South Africa, which so many of us relate to a people's song for freedom, has met us through the radio channels in the morning hours. Today it was the sound of a people mourning over the wallpaper of a great leader. A whole world joins the strofes and shares the grief because Nelson Mandela more than any other head of state has made the values and ideals of our time and tomorrow's society so badly needed. Our thoughts go to the South African people and to Nelson Mandela's closest, and we bring peace to Nelson Mandela's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e48	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e51	On behalf of the representatives of Hans Olav Syversen, Olaug V. Bollestad and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to suspend the limitation period in criminal proceedings concerning incest, rape and murder.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e56	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e70	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Green 5 minutes. In addition, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will have 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines, with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to six lines, with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is deemed to have been adopted
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e79	Thank you, President, for a worthy introduction to the grand meeting today. It puts some thought into it when today's meeting starts with Nelson Mandela and the fight he has waged for a number of rights, which really also deals with the rights of the labour and social committee working on in Norway. There are perspectives that make us feel good in Norway, no matter what party has ruled, no matter what period it has been in. We're going to have that as a great background for today's debate. The Committee which is here today has a great responsibility, both in terms of money and not least in terms of budget lines, but most importantly for the everyday lives of very many people in Norway. It's the retired person, who, after a long life in work, takes on a well-earned pension, and eventually also has the opportunity to combine it with work. It is the young person who has had a short life in his or her working life but who needs to have his or her disability in order to have security for the future, or those who are temporarily out of work and who are to have unemployment benefits. We're going to help them with arrangements from the state, businesses and the business community to get them back into work. It is the task of the Committee, along with the rest of the Storting, to find the balance point that gives both recipients of social security, services and benefits from the state, county and municipality a decent life to live for them and their families, while at the same time it should not be so favourable that people are not allowed to go out to work or want to have the opportunity to apply for other challenges. We have a great responsibility for people with reduced working capacity. They're going to have an opportunity to try, prove themselves trustworthy, create a better life and a better everyday life. We are responsible for those who are inside Nav for getting help when life faces challenges they would not have thought of when life started. The government's goal is to work for everyone. We now have low unemployment, at about 3.5 pst., and we have an employment share of approximately. 69 pst. On a European and international scale, these are strong figures. Both the government and not least other actors are warning a little more wind – literally these days – but we have a robust economy to deal with this. We have a robust business life and a flexible working life thanks to tripartite cooperation, which the government is also behind. What has been the main challenge for this government in finding solutions in the future is that we have relatively high employment rates and relatively low unemployment, but we have very few people with disabilities in the workplace. This will be a very important job for this committee over the next four years, and not least for the government. There may be people who have mental disorders, who have problems getting into work. We have those who have recovered from mental illness, who do not get out of work because the employer does not dare to hire them. And not least we see that it's about youth without education. We see that the greatest increase in unemployment in Norway today occurs among immigrants. That is why this government is also going to have a strong commitment to good employment policies. We are therefore adding 1000 additional places to people with reduced working capacity to lift several of them, via reinsurance companies, into normal working life. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the government parties, the Right and the Advance Party have major objectives as well as several instruments. We focus on freedom, we focus on trust in individuals, but we also trust that public opinion will help solve a number of things. We in the government parties are impatient to make sure that people get better lives. We're also because offers can be publicly funded instead of just being public driven. I think we can get a good ideological discussion about this in the future in this period. There are several roads to Rome, not just through the municipality, the county and the state. That's why we have, among other things, also strengthened the social entrepreneurship scheme. With this budget, we're starting work. We want good cooperation with the Stortinget and this committee, and we recommend the proposal for a decision, which is supported by the Right, the Advance Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e98	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e101	The representative, Mr Kambe, spent a lot of time on those who stand far away from the labour market, among other things. disabled persons. A prerequisite for them to come in is that we have a clean, serious and decent working life where it's good to be. In this respect, the representative did not mention social dumping in a single word. The government platform mentions social dumping in a few words, but says little about what the government wants to do with what may be our biggest challenge in the world of work and in the Norwegian welfare state ahead. What new ideas and better solutions do the Right and Government intend to promote, and what action will we take in the fight against social dumping in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e108	Having a decent working life is incredibly important for this government. It is important for each employer, for each employee and it is important for competitors and the companies in which these employees work, and it is not least important for the safety of individuals when they go to work and when they apply for a job. The government has also committed itself to follow up the action plan on social dumping, which was widely endorsed, also from the Right and the Advance Party when we were in opposition, and which the Stortinget has just adopted. The representative of the Trettebergstien should know that. This action plan, which this government will also follow up in cooperation with the Stortinget, is a legally adopted decision on enlargement. We imagine a distortion in industry programmes, with increased use of industry programmes to make the industries where there are the biggest problems. We want this to be a collaboration with the Stortinget about, and hope to get unanimous support for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e117	I noticed that the committee leader was concerned that there are several roads to Rome. It is a vision shared by the Christian People's Party that many of the important tasks we can do to help those who fall outside society can be solved by non-governmental organisations through the civil sector. We've seen that over the last few years, for example. non-profit institutions have had free capacity. There have been non-governmental organisations that could at least receive more support and contribute more capacity to do more for those who need it. So my question to the representative Kambe is: does the right want a greater investment in that sector, and will one in that case see it in the next year's budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e126	This is a goal that both I and Right share. We have a cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, which has also been followed up in the Sundvolden Declaration, where we just want to create conditions, not just for voluntary teams and organisations to have better framework conditions, but for them to participate in poverty reduction, and to make it easier for them to offer private child protection measures. We have seen red-green attacks over many years on private child protection institutions that have had consequences for the families involved. We're going to do what we've done in the budget with the Christian People's Party and the Left, and continue to strengthen social entrepreneurs. In the Committee, we have also had good cooperation, and we have helped to increase poverty subsidies through voluntary organisations. I feel that the Christian People's Party is a party that has a real commitment to voluntary teams and organisations. The exposure divides the parties to the government. I hope we get four good years together, where we get the opportunity to get good recordings from the Christian People's Party. Then we're going to try as hard as we can in the different budgets to strengthen the voluntary sector in relation to what the red-greens did over eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e133	Right says in the setting: «A well-functioning labour market is essential for each one to realize his dreams and ambitions.» I fully agree – it is quite ambitious. But the use of each one's abilities and facilities is absolutely fundamental. Many people are very interested in practical subjects, walling, trucking, domestic work. There is a great deal of interest, but fewer and fewer young people choose it, precisely because of the income and working conditions of these industries. My question is, what is the Right Assessment? Is the labour market moving towards more people realizing their dreams and ambitions? If not, what will the Right do to enable, for example, the people of the professional groups I mentioned to choose the professions that will realise their dreams and ambitions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e147	I think the representative Lundteg addresses a good question. There are many who take a professional course, but who do not necessarily end up with a professional letter, but take practical work. It's a challenge that the Nordics who want it would like to be out of competition by cheap labour elsewhere. The right and government have a goal of strengthening the professions, including the narrower disciplines. We've been focusing for many years on the fact that there's too much theory in the professions, which makes people give up, and so they don't get that letter. But we also see that many of those who take letters, start small and medium-sized enterprises in District Norway, become the local mason, the local painter, the local carpenter, the plumber, or whatever it may be. I think we should continue to bet on that. Now the Central Party has had eight years in the government offices without any positive influence, but if the Central Party has specific proposals, we are very happy to listen to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e154	Right-wing likes to call themselves a business party. Proposals have been submitted by the government which, in the case of the legislation on permitting, require companies to take a greater part in the bill of lay-offs. In several industries — especially in primary industries — there may be very wide fluctuations, and tough situations may occur. Randomities such as natural or external conditions may cause companies to waver. Why does the Right – as I see it – want to increase the likelihood of bankruptcy in important companies by increasing the bills of companies in connection with permits?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e162	What's been our starting point is that last year's red-green government or a year ago's double the number of days of leave from 10. It has been common in Stortinget and in the government that the regulatory framework around the lay-offs is changing as the economic cycle changes. From the government we believe that increasing it to 20 days is good within. Speaking of this with a balance point, we also believe that one has to figure out what is the company's usual fluctuation costs associated with having employees, rather than letting the government take the bill. So it's also that being on leave is not a wish situation for the employee either. And even if unemployment increases slightly, most people who have a job will be able to get a new job reasonably soon instead of being allowed to leave for, for example. up to six months, which has now also been set by the government – 26 weeks. So I believe that the overall assessments from us – together with tax policy, research policy and education policy – also provide a good business budget for 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e169	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e172	We are now going to consider the first budget of the Labour and Social Committee after the government change. It could be an exercise, both for those who are used to being in position, and for those who are used to being in opposition, to change sides of the table. Not least, we have seen this within what is a very large proportion of our budgetary responsibilities, namely that of pensions. Economically, there is a very large proportion of our budget, and the current Council of State was colorful as an opposition politician. At the latest in an advertisement just before the election – and advertisements come on his own initiative – he described the current pension scheme as an ‘elders’. It would not take many days to get rid of the abbreviation, which has been much mentioned by the current Council of State during the last years of opposition, and also the annual regulation would change in relation to what all other parties have previously agreed on. We can now see that it was promises that disappeared as dew for the sun. When, like all the other parties and the party of the state councils, the state council is now behind the pension system, when there is agreement, even though the state council is still trying to give the impression that it is very much behind that consensus, we have a pension system that is widely agreed on in all political parties. Another important area for the Council of State and for the Committee is Nav. In this area, too, state councils have over the years had colorful and flourishing descriptions of the situation. I want to be very careful to say that it is such an important joint project – because there has been a broad consensus on the Nav reform – that we all have a responsibility to contribute to its development in the right direction, and that what does not work today works better in the future. In this area, at least I want to have an ambition that something good will come out of the government shift: a more constructive and objective opposition than we had in the last period. For this area is so important, and in very many areas within Nav it is important that we succeed. I want to participate, and we want to engage in a serious debate on an ever-increasing improvement in quality – possibly the development of new measures that can work even better than the measures we have chosen so far. In this context, I recall that when we discussed how the public sector works in the past – in the past, in the light of dramatic events, and especially with attention to the police – we have been reminded that we too often only compete for the most money, while we have little ability to discuss the quality of what we get out of money. I think it is very serious that we should try to help the debate deal with it, that it should be based on the users' perceived offers and not just a competition to give the most money. I don't think politics is worth it either – perhaps especially when it comes to Nav. In the name of honesty, the Council of State assumes responsibility for matters that have almost exclusively been affected by progress under the previous government. The number of beneficiaries of social assistance has fallen significantly below the previous government, partly as a result of the introduction of qualification measures and in other ways systematically helping people over a knee. The proportion of unemployed people has fallen, sick leave has fallen significantly, it has happened very well. But that doesn't mean we're done, and there's still a need to improve many of the services. We're going to be an active contributor to that debate and try to be constructive in finding actions that can help people get back to work. As regards measures against social dumping, the previous government and the current opposition have clearly distinguished themselves. We have put in place a series of measures against social dumping, which is an ever-increasing problem, and which we see as well an estimate against the black economy and crime. The problem is still evolving; we still need to find new solutions. My hope, which I send with the Council of State, is that the measures you have voted against will not be reversed. Let them lie! Rather, we can discuss what new measures we need to meet the challenge we see, towards a serious working life in Norway. Another area in which the previous government had good results — yes, where we were the European champion — is unemployment. In October 2005, there were 83,479 persons registered in Nav. In October of this year, there were more than 68 000. It is not only a result of the responsibilities of this Council of States and the work of this Committee. There is a variety of issues that need to be put in place to get high employment, and that is perhaps the area that worries me most about the new government. Nutrition policy is important. Of course, when the first government meets the agricultural industry with — even from its own national councils — the removal of the ostetoll and the tightening of the important agricultural industry, it is a good thing to threaten employment not only for agriculture but also for the processing industry, which is one of the most important industries in Norway. When fisheries are exposed to discussion on quota regulation and commercialisation and concrete measures to tighten up the specific rules of leave necessary for the operation of a specific industry, they do not contribute to the security of the economy. When Innovation Norway reduces its resources, many potential companies do not receive the initial aid they should have had. The proposal to abolish the CO2 compensation scheme was so bad that it was stopped in Stortinget, but it says something about the direction of the government, which is not very useful. In terms of family policy, we know that kindergarten prices, the government's opposition to the previous government's proposal for two annual admissions, and that they increase cash support beyond the agreed time, also do not contribute to promoting the working line. In addition, there are poor family policies. The cooperation model has been important for us to have achieved the good results on employment we have received in Norway – the Norwegian model, the cooperation model. The recent report of the Holden III Committee shows just that. However, when the government proposes temporary employment, which does not provide more jobs, but more of those who could be in a permanent job, a temporary job, when they ask questions about working time and even manage to propose – at least say that they should propose – normized health care periods, it does not promote the cooperation that the Holden III Committee has pointed out has contributed to the low employment in Norway and to the good, efficient economy we have in Norway. With regard to labour market measures for which the Council of State itself is responsible, it is clear that reducing the number of labour market measures, which actually takes place in this year's budget on a proposal from the current government, is the first time in the history we see happening at the same time as a government's track of increased unemployment. When both tightening the rules of leave for the worker and making it more expensive for the employer during a period when there is a sign that the growth of employment is slowing down – that unemployment may increase slightly – it is going in the wrong direction. The overall measures in the State budget do not point to the government's ambition to have full employment as a target. I would say at the start of this government and the first budget: they are not going to be measured and competed with from us just to give the most money, we'll evaluate the government on the basis of results. The most important result for us to measure government is the result of unemployment – that is the main economic factor. The cliffs so far do not point in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e196	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e199	Just to finish: I am happy that the Workers' Party announces less focus on money and more focus on results. That was perhaps what you experienced on the other side, when the government only talked about money, but was killed by the voters because of lack of results. We're familiar with that, and we're used to that discussion, so we're happy about that. My inbox, my phone and Facebook inbox are overflowing with messages from people who want to reenter. Many of them experience no because of the resource situation in Nav, many experience no because of a lack of trust from their employers and many other reasons, problems on their own. What causes the Workers' Party to vote against the government's proposal for 1000 new places of action for people with disabilities? Does the Labour Party think that there are too many areas of action for people with disabilities in Norway today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e208	I am very happy to have that question, because it is really an area where the representative Kambe has indicated that it is possible to be incredibly rude. The answer to this question is simple: they cut into labour market measures – they cut into 100 million. kr in labour market measures. That's what we've said no to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e213	The representative, Andersen, is good at criticising the government for everything he thinks the government is doing a bad job. In the line here, I would like to state quite clearly that it is the Workers' Party that does a bad job and perhaps fails those who need support and help. Social security does not initially cover preventive aid at present, but exemptions have been made for children and young people under the age of 26. In 2014, the scheme is extended to cover those over 26 years. The Solberg government will grant a total of 55 million. kr for this measure, the Stoltenberg Government wanted to grant only 25 million. kr. This would result in many people having their applications rejected, especially at the end of the year. I wonder if Andersen's representative doesn't see that $25 million. kr is too small in relation to 55 million. kr, and if the representative is satisfied that more people will not be supported by the alternative budget of the Workers' Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e220	The representative here refers to a scheme that the previous government proposed to expand, even if you might not get the impression. We have proposed this, and we have proposed the money we think is necessary to cover that extension to next year. I am very happy that we have helped to give them a better offer over 26 years, and there is no big problem for me if additional money is allocated to it – I also want to stress that. It's a typical example of a plan in which we agree on the plan. We have proposed it, the new government has followed it up – that's good. We've given the money that our estimates showed would be necessary for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e225	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Andersen for his excellent contribution. I think it was both reflective and thoughtful, and he has a very constructive attitude. I guess we could be more parties that call us constructive opposition parties in this room. When one is first in the phase that one thinks what one can do better and be constructive partners, I am concerned about what the representative Andersen sees that one did not get enough for the last eight years. I experienced a great commitment shared by the Christian People's Party, and we had good discussions and debates about taking things forward. What is it that the representative sees that you didn't get far enough on, and that you want to put pressure on now?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e230	There I can be so honest and say that it would take a lot more than one minute to go into all the points – especially when the representative says ‘come far enough’, because that is what is often the point. I would like to take an example: we have positive developments in health services in Norway, but there has not been far enough progress in the number of people who have been diagnosed to take a very specific example. I also see, after even having been responsible for the Nav reform at one of the stages, that there will still be a need to adjust to the experience gained in the development of Nav. As far as instruments are concerned, everyone agrees that we need to go further on ICT within Nav, for example. Let me take an example from the experiences I have had: Some places in Nav – in some municipalities – they have two leaders, one from the state and one from the municipality. I can be so honest and say that I don't think that's the solution for the future. I think you need one head of each Nav office to take it as an example. Here you can discuss a lot more.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e239	I have noticed that the Workers' Party has been very busy with so-called social security exports. Understandably, it is a grateful task to be critical of welfare benefits as long as they go to foreigners. The question, however, is how big the problem really is – e.g. represents the export of cash support, which has been extensively discussed by the Labour Party, more than 20 million. kr per year. The remarkable fact that they – with respect to reporting – get very small amounts, compared to much bigger challenges, is striking. What about all the billions we spend on early retirement working people through the AFP scheme, for example, not to mention the billions we spend on paying for the highest and most expensive sick leave in the OECD area? My question is whether the Labour Party should be a little bit more concerned about the really big amounts in the public welfare budget, and not just the relatively small amounts that go to foreigners.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e249	The working party is concerned with both large and small sums because we're concerned with the results that it gives to people, and not just the sums. When we're very concerned about and behind the implementation of the AFP system, it's an example of that. I myself have been working with people who have been so worn out in their 65s that they had to throw up two or three times a day, but they didn't have the opportunity to get off in a dignified way. It is the AFP scheme that the Left now stands out to attack. You are attacking systems that will apply to people in the labour market. That's where you put the bump. To social security schemes and the relationship with the rest of the world, I can say that I had the pleasure of cutting down the Brochmann committee in its time, and I recommend the representative to go into the Brochmann committee's assessments, which are not just about the problem of social security exports. It's about how our social security system fits into a new, modern society, where not only does the labour force come to Norway that we have to fight to avoid social dumping, but where it's normal for the Nordics to work more abroad. That's what we want to deal with the discussions we have about adapting the social security system of the future to the new reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e258	The cord shift is over. But before the representative goes and sits down, the president wonders if he might have been planning to make some proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e263	Yes, up to four. Thanks for the reminder.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e268	The President agrees with Andersen's representative that it is difficult to change roles [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e271	There are several of us who are happy that there are several who have changed roles in this room now recently. There are two issues that the Committee is dealing with here today. I am the case rapporteur for case No. 2 on the scheme for depositors and government members for 2012. I will not mention it, except to say that the Committee is gathered to record that the scheme is being implemented as provided and also has a little less consumption in relation to the budget. But then to the main issue, the budgetary position of the Labour and Social Committee. I will begin by thanking the Committee for good cooperation on the budget. We have had a relatively short period of time because of new government and the additional proposition. The Committee has also been made up of many fresh representatives, but together we have managed to achieve objectives, with the help of the Committee's secretaries and others. What characterises the entire remit of the Labour and Social Committee and our budget is that it affects all citizens of society. Everything we do, whether it's on the job or on the social side, matters to the people. Then I am very happy that we have now had a change of pace in the policy, because we now have a government that is playing with all the social partners, and not just one of the parties. I am pleased that we now have a government that is also involved with those who are outside the labour market, and look at how we can get them into the labour market. Ensuring jobs and making working life more flexible and adapted to modern working life are essential to maintain the well-being of society in the years to come. Our job here at Stortinget must be to facilitate those who fall out of work. I am very pleased that the government and the Storting here today are increasing the number of disabled people by 1000 more than the Stoltenberg government proposed, a total increase in the number of people with disabilities by 3000. It is also important when we know how much unused labour we have. Over my years as a politically active person, I have also been in contact with many people who are outside the labour market, but who have a burning desire to use something more of their residual capacity, and in that case, action places, wage subsidies and other measures are important. Then I am glad that the government is ready and that this budget also shows direction. In terms of the number of sites, the level of intervention can always be discussed. But the government has been clear that of course it will always follow the economic situation and the situation in the labour market at all times, and is also prepared to make adjustments and take action if necessary. That's something the Storting has done before. At the time of the financial crisis, a total increase decided to take many measures against the background of the new situation at that time. At the same time, however, I agree – and one should not necessarily have a big debate on it in concrete terms – that it is not an end in itself to giving the most money. That's also why the debate, when someone is criticised for using more or less in the field of employment and social affairs, is a little strange, because very much of what we're dealing with is actually estimates, and that's the need to decide. The whole area of the Labour and Social Committee is complex and comprehensive. Business, and not least many individuals in society, meet with Nav or other public services all too often in a complicated system and bureaucracy that makes not everyone necessarily get the offer or benefits they require. Then I'm glad that today we're starting to debureaucraticize society, and continue to work to simplify society, which is important for both business and all individuals. I look forward to a good and exciting debate here today. The area we're discussing is maybe where the political divides are going to be the most obvious, because we have challenges. Although much is good in Norway, we have a challenge that too many people are out of work. Then it's important that we get a more flexible and modern working life, adapted to modern society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e294	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e297	Dag Terje Andersen was in his speech at one of the biggest election campaign cases of the Progress Party, namely the resistance to the pension agreement, or to say that with the Progress Party’s own words – the great pensioner. At that time, it was hardly the pension schemes for large-scale representatives and government members they had in mind. The so-called pension scheme was not mentioned in the contribution from the main figures of the Progress Party, and it may not be without reason. Is it still the case that the Progress Party is likening the pension agreement to a run of the country's pensioners, and in that case what will the Progress Party do to what they are now in power, even at the top, of the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e304	We in the Progress Party are still opposed to the pension agreement, and we believe that the pension agreement, for which the Workers' Party was at the head, was not correct. Our policy is firmly established there. But then it is that the Progress Party does not have a majority alone. We're dependent on cooperating with other parties. But I'm very happy that the government has been so clear that you're going to start going through several areas, among other things. curtailments between married and cohabiting pensioners, of whom the Workers' Party has been a hot defender. I'm glad we're getting reduced from 15 pst. until 10 p.m., something the government has now committed itself to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e311	The representative, Wiborg, said that we have received a government that «is on the side of those who are outside the labour market». That's a pretty funny thing to say. Being on a team with those who are out of work means that those people are going into the world of work. This is a statement that can be measured in the future, which we'll see how it works. But my question is related to the same thing that I asked the Right's main speakers about: creating a well-functioning labour market that is essential for each one to realize his dreams and ambitions. It's so nice, it's so captivating and it's so nice. When one says that, one must at least have some clarity in: Where is the development going? Does it go in the direction of this goal, or do we now go away from it – yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e318	The government and the new majority are now quite clear that very much is good in Norway. It's thanks to shifting governments and shifting number of economies over many years. But there are still many who do not experience being able to fulfill their dreams. There are still many, as I was inside my main post, who are outside the workplace, who want to be part of the working life. This involves implementing measures that allow more people to get into the labour market, by simplifying, by debureaucraticising Nav and by ensuring that people get the help and support they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e325	There are many reasons why people fall out of work, end up in poverty and experience social distress and exclusion. One of the reasons is gambling addiction. In Norway, it is up to 80,000 people who are struggling with gambling addiction. I have registered that the representative Wiborg has a great commitment to allow gambling of poker, and that in these days he apparently plays in 1 million. kr with one of Norway's best poker players. Of course, the representative should be allowed to play poker and have a great commitment to do it legally, but I really hope that the representative also has a great commitment to help those who are struggling with it, so that one can prevent them from playing away large incomes and in that way perhaps going into poverty, experiencing the loss of work, the breakdown of the family, etc. So I would like to challenge the representative on it: when he has such a great commitment to play, does he also have a great commitment to combat gambling addiction?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e333	Yes, I have a great commitment to combat gambling addiction. That's exactly why I believe that when it comes to e.g. poker, it's better to get it into a regulated and secure framework in Norway, where we can also set money limits, etc., than it is like today, when 500,000 Norwegians play on foreign websites.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e338	It's almost like this that I wonder if the government wants to play a little poker with the unsafe jobs that the government wants, because it is in favour of more temporary employment. This creates uncertainty for employees, creates uncertainty for families, and creates uncertainty about the job to which they are going to go. It will also have consequences for their economy. What do the representatives of Erlend Wiborg banks think of the employees who come and ask for loans to their homes and to their families, with these many new temporary jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e343	Temporary employment is not what we are discussing here today, nor in the budget. But on a general basis, I can say that the government is also aware that there are fixed-term jobs that should be the general rule. Just because we want a more flexible working life, it is about making the door wider, so that several of those who do not have any work today – and thus do not have the opportunity to get loans from the bank to realize the housing dream, etc. – will have the opportunity to get a job, so they will also have the opportunity to pick up the loan they are looking for. So this is also about ensuring jobs, and then I'm glad that the government is now improving the framework conditions for businesses by reducing corporate taxation, providing better solutions to trade and creating a more flexible working life. I think that will secure more jobs than is the case today, when we have too many people out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e348	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e351	The interesting thing about the debate in the Labour and Social Committee is that one discusses posts that most people would really want to be able to lower, at least in most areas, because one has an overall policy when talking about the welfare community, and one should really shift the funds from treatment or from help to those who have fallen away to fight people falling out. That is why the starting point for the Christian People's Party in the debate is also more holistic, that we need to ensure a good welfare society, where one is good at inclusion, at creating quality of life, which builds societies from below, and where one has good and secure communities. Community for Christian People's Party is more than just the state. Perhaps the most important community is the family. If we create safe families and good growing-up conditions, much of the work is done to ensure that one does well in school, that one succeeds in working life, etc. Quality of life is also a key element in discussing everything from unemployment to falling out of work, to falling into debauchery, etc., because families that are connected often feel much better. The problem of sick messages can be the result of job relationships, but it can also be the result of domestic situations, and therefore many of the debates we are meeting today are important in other committees as well. But when one discusses the starting point, work may be the key, or the essence. Being allowed to contribute, having the ability to contribute the qualities we have, is important for each of us, but it is also important for society that as much as possible contribute to the community, and that we have good security networks for those who fall outside. An example of ensuring that as much as possible can have a job to do is to secure society against social dumping, to ensure that the industries and businesses we have actually adhere to the law, and that not the unprofessional compete out those serious ones. We also need to invest even more of the resources in research, in facilitating good conditions for entrepreneurs, secure infrastructure, etc. to ensure that business is well-being. When we first discuss those who have fallen outside, and how we can help others back, the fight against alienation is the key. Today, more than 600,000 people in pre-employment are out of work. It's people with disabilities. Many of them would want them to contribute despite disability, but we have too high barriers to let them in. That is why I am pleased that the Committee is so clearly following up on the ratification of the UN Convention for People with Disabilities, and also, as others have been involved, ensuring resources for leisure activities for them over 26 years. Then there's a group of disabled people. Over 200,000 people are defined in that group, so they need the help of Nav to come back. I am pleased that the Committee has chosen to give priority to this group in terms of action sites, with an increase of 3 000. That means there are even more people who can get the help they need to get back. I believe that this is a task that the Committee and the Storting must give priority to. But it brings us back to prevention. Today early the president started to remember Nelson Mandela. One of his statements is: Education is the most important weapon if we want to achieve change in the world. Not only to bring about change in the world, but to bring about change in the way of success in getting out of work, preventing one from falling out, education is one of the keys – it is by being able to prevent the drop-out or by being able to provide those who have fallen out and who are currently on different social benefits, help to get back. For the Christian People's Party, the struggle for poverty is also one of the important points that we want to give priority to. There's the work key. But there is also a part that is not able to come back to work and that lives in poverty, and we know that the number of children growing up in low-income families is over 100,000 if you use the EU definition. That is why I am pleased that the government has announced a package of measures aimed at children who grow up in poor families. I am also pleased that the Christian People's Party, Left, Right and Advance Party have granted 5 million. kr more to non-governmental organisations. - And that was the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e368	It was, but it's a string change, so it's an opportunity to bring more gold grains then.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e371	The representative Ropstad has been a clear politician in the poverty debate, and I also feel that the representative Ropstad Party, the Christian People's Party, is in line with the Workers' Party in that small differences between people are a value we strive for in a society. Since 2005, differences have also decreased. But we see that in the autumn we adopt a budget that will help to increase the differences, among other things. with a tax policy whereby those who earn the most receive large tax cuts, while ordinary people on ordinary wages are left with a few crowns. In addition, we also see that the government cuts to the families of the poor children, whom the representative Ropstad now spent the last part of his speech talking about, through a huge cut in the transitional welfare, a social benefit that the representative Ropstad and the Christian People's Party have previously been hot defenders of. Does the representative, Mr Ropstad, think that it is fortunate or unfortunate that we are now adopting a budget which increases the differences between people, and what does the representative think about the cuts in transitional aid?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e376	In the case of transitional aid, as the representative of Trettebergstien says, it is well-known what the Christian People's Party believes about it. When it comes to increasing differences, I don't agree with the assumptions. That's because, as I was inside at the beginning of my post, work is also the key to the way out of poverty. I also believe that if one manages to set up tax havens in a way that can generate growth for businesses and secure business, it will create jobs. The history description is also – and I fully agree with the Workers' Party – that it has been important to combat differences, and small differences are good for society. But then we have also seen that the number of people living in poverty has unfortunately increased. That's why I think it's targeting efforts like that, for example. have been notified in the cooperation agreement, through an action package for children growing up in poor families, is also one of the keys to helping that group – that is, targeting efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e385	I want to thank the representative Ropstad for a very good post. We're good in Norway, but we're not without challenges. Among other things, we see an unemployment rate among young people that is almost three times higher than the total unemployment rate. I could imagine hearing the Rupstad representative's reflections on how we can solve this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e392	Thank you for a good question. It is quite right, as the representative says, that youth unemployment is too high, and it may be even more serious because it is the beginning of a career and there is a risk of a drop. As I was in my post, for example. fight against apostasy, drop-out, important. To use the math of the knowledge minister, it's probably one of three, or almost one of four, dropping out, and it's important to fight. Then, for example, someone can. make it easier to take a certificate of competence — and not a full professional letter — so that you can at least obtain some papers that ensure a job. In the case of apprentices, the Christian People's Party has at least been concerned with lowering the employer's fee. There could be one input. I think it's about early action. It also means that if a dropout occurs, a person should instead receive only social assistance and ‘that’s it’, require activity or provide activity, apply labour market measures, and receive help either through education or through work. There will be some measures that I think will work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e403	Since the Christian People's Party did not give priority to being represented in the Labour and Social Committee, one does not have its own comments. But it's a genuine commitment to the Christian People's Party – as the representative said – that everyone must have the opportunity to participate in the labour market. It's been said all the time. Some mean more with that than others. Christian People's Party means more by that. This is said at a time when we have a historically high real wage development. The successful do it better in every way, materially at least. My question is related to the Christian People's Party's understanding of the reality of giving people the opportunity to participate in the world of work. Is the reality of the Christian People's Party today that developments are moving toward the Christian People's Party's goal of getting more people to participate in the world of work, or is developments going in the opposite direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e411	Thank you for an interesting question. I read with great interest the note from the Center Party that concerns some of this. Some of the criticisms in recent years have been that the proportion of people at work has actually fallen. One has seen that one has had a job immigration that has helped to solve many of our challenges, but it has also meant that many of the workers have taken the jobs that have been created. I am concerned that on the one hand we need labour immigration, and on the other hand we need to make it easier to include. Then there are some of the measures that I talked about in my post, which I think will allow someone to help those who may not be as healthy and ready to take a job as some caricatured young Swedes are. Thus, such measures will be important. I am pleased that the representative Lundtigen, in his comments, is lifting up, for example. better conditions for self-employed people, which I believe is one measure that will enable more people to create their own jobs, which will be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e422	It's nice to meet at Ropstad, even though he's not in committee! I have the clear opinion that the textbook of the Christian People's Party is the Bible. It says: "For in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, the sea and all that is in them; but on the seventh day he rested." The Christian People's Party has chosen to give its blessing to a government that will take away the rest day, so that people will have to work on Sunday. I now wonder if the Christian People’s Party no longer believes in the Bible as a textbook. But what will the Christian People's Party do to prevent the rest day from still becoming a common holiday for all?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e434	The President would point out that it is important to stay within the matter. I think this may be in the border country of the matter area, but the representative, Mr Ropstad, will have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e437	Good President! I think it's an interesting and good question – and a funny question. I have to say that I've already neglected a little, because we accept that a lot of jobs on Sunday today, it's either nurses or those at the gas stations, etc. But to the core of the question, whether we want Sunday open shops: the Christian People's Party's clear view of it is no. It's not necessarily because of the Bible, it's because the employees say no. Actually, business also says no. The majority of the population say no. We think it's important to have a different day where the family, for example. can be grouped instead of going shopping. I also don't think it will be a good measure for business, because it will only contribute to increased costs, at least too many. Then, fortunately, we have a minority government that needs a majority in the Biggest. It is therefore important that the Christian People's Party and the Left work well together, so that one, together with the rest of the opposition, can prevent one from contributing to changes that neither the employees nor the employers nor the people want.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e448	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e451	Any debate to shape society must be based on a common sense of reality, a common sense of reality in this case around working life – what is happening, what is happening, how developments are going – a common sense of reality about social policy – how to develop the security systems we have. The sense of reality in this room is, when it comes to the piece, very different. As a result, policies are also said to be different. What's happening after the Center Party's assessment today is that the world of work is changing very quickly. We're getting an ever stronger bi-dividual. We get a two-way street with a lot of organized employment, with a lot of free, high incomes and rising real incomes. It's all right. It's all right. At the same time, we get an increasingly large group of unbridled employment, employment on contract and even falling incomes. It is a very demanding challenge in the workplace. We know that the roles in working life are important to people's other roles in everyday life. For the Centre Party, a working life based on security, equivalence and equity, built on the production of goods and services greater than consumption, is central. It is absolutely central to us that an obligating, professionally qualified person in the workplace is given general respect and nodding for his work. That's the way it should be. All professions are knowledge professionals. Theoretical professions are for you to become a better practice. It is a comprehensive policy organisation in the labour market through laws, regulations, taxes and taxes both towards employers, maritime workers and, by sea, towards employees. The role of policy is to correct and control market forces. The main challenge in Norwegian policy today is increased respect for the practical professions. I would like to say it so strongly: there is an increased respect for the practical professions, and it is further to give people the opportunity to participate in the working life with their working capacity when they have reduced their working capacity. Therefore, it is important to invest in compensation of employees towards employers. This is why it is important to invest in permanent job placements for the many young people who have a disability from birth, perhaps. Once these young people have completed high school, there shall be a seamless transfer to permanent job placements. The appropriations shall not be used to determine when these young people are given their place in the labour market. The Centre Party therefore prioritises permanent job placements and wage subsidies to employers who take responsibility for people with disabilities. There is a historically high labour migration in Norway today through the major eastern enlargements in 2004. In 2012, net labour migration was 47 343 persons – historically high. Increased use of contracted labour and increasingly unbridled employment, including: many stages of the contract chain make it more difficult to monitor compliance with relevant laws, regulations and working conditions. This is a reality that gets too little discussed in this room. This is why the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party are promoting, among others. the proposal that there should be no more than three stages in the contract chain for suppliers awarded public tenders, that the government submit further proposals to counteract the scope of avoidance of Norwegian wage and working conditions in individual industries, and that the Stortinget ask the government to take action to ensure increased interaction and coordination between different public bodies in order to identify more of tax and social crime. The Labour Inspectorate has a key role to play. The Labour Inspectorate shall ensure that the provisions of the Labour Environment Act are complied with, a work environment law that many were proud of – the Centre Party and the other red-greens are still proud of it – that we are going to fence about and that we are going to develop as a good tool for orderling relationships. We now have national efforts in the areas of cleaning, health and social care and construction. Especially in construction, it is worrying, and an overall committee says that now a more powerful effort needs to be made between the police, the tax and the labour force, and a more powerful effort in the workplace, so that a person can take action to prevent us from going from social dumping to crime. I ask the Minister to pay special attention to this. One of the big tasks now is that the Labour Inspectorate is doing a better job, and that someone is using the main protection agents and those in the workplace to help ensure that there are decent conditions. All parties will be worthy of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e479	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e482	The representative, Lundtigen, points out in his comments to the large amount of net immigration that has occurred in recent years, with concern for both the formation of wages and the exclusion of labour already existing in Norway. The Holden Committee, which has been reduced by the Red-Green Government, presented this week a report showing that labour migration has given Norway access to labour in industries where there is a high shortage of relevant labour, such as the United Kingdom and Ireland. in construction and construction, and in health and care. This has mitigated bottlenecks in individual industries during periods of high activity in the economy, thus also dampening the pressure on wages, both in these industries and in the economy as a whole. What factors does the representative Lundteigen believe the Holden Committee has overlooked? What reality and analysis underlie Lundtigen's conclusion that foreign labour leads to the exclusion of Norwegian labour?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e489	I like the question. Every country must have a responsibility in the big economic policy to organise the social economy in such a way that there is a fair match between the resources it has and the tasks it has to perform. That's a first challenge. If you organize the economy to facilitate many more tasks than people do in the country, you have to be aware of the consequences. It's been evolution lately. The immigration of labour has come into industries with conditions of pay and employment such that few Norwegians will be educated in them. This stands for the Center Party as a major challenge. When, for example, Now, in a situation where we almost don't get skilled painters with an ethnic Norwegian background, it's a loss for the Norwegian community. We need all young people to realize their visions and dreams, and then you have to be able to get a skilled education and a good job later. Then we're dealing with the big organization of the world of work and the social economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e498	Lundtigen is obviously concerned with the importance of giving people the opportunity to participate in the world of work, so I have a line just on it. In the few weeks that the Solberg government has been sitting by the power, the Senter Party has diligently criticized us for what we have not done. I must then remind you that the Solberg government has been sitting for about eight weeks, while the Stoltenberg government has actually been sitting for eight years. An important goal for getting more people to work is to pay off working. In this context, it is important to work for more disabled people to participate in the labour market. Surveys from Nav show that several thousand people actually want to work. It will be of use and joy to the destitute and also to society. As a result, I wonder why the representative did not do more to contribute to the fact that several performers could have the opportunity to work when Lundtegen was in position, and his party was in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e508	I have not criticized the dark blue government for what it has done so far. I'm not that unreasonable. What's being taken up here is the question of whether it's going to pay off to work. In order to pay for working for the people in a situation of partial social security and part-time work, either better pay for the job or lower social benefits. The Progress Party and the government have not yet said anything about it. I hope that they will facilitate the provision of benefits, and that at the same time there will be better conditions in the professions and in the jobs in which they are going to work, thereby making it more profitable to work. But I'm excited about what's going to be the government's answer, whether it means lower social benefits and no improvement in pay and working conditions for the people we're talking about here. I'm afraid so, but time will show.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e517	In its comments on the setting and in today's speeches, the representative Lundtigen and the Central Party adopts a very critical tone against labour immigration. It is produced as a major problem that so much of the employment growth in recent years has come as a result of labour migration. There are some trendy lines drawn to organised crime and social dumping. I would like to challenge the representative Lundteg to say something nice about labour immigration for once. Is it e.g. not reason to rejoice that many more welfare tasks can be solved and values created as a result of our fellow Europeans coming here to work? Is it not good that immigration helps to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness by keeping wage and cost growth in check? Is it not good that when unemployment is high in other countries, competent workers have the possibility to create values for Norway instead of burdening secret social budgets? I would challenge the representative Lundteg to at least agree in part on one of those claims.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e526	The centre party wants labour immigration, but we want to regulate labour immigration to a greater extent. It is very nice to say about labour immigration. There are an incredible number of capable and unemployed people who get up early in the morning and do a good day's work. It's clear that these people are doing a great job in a lot of industries, which we wouldn't have done otherwise. Furthermore, it is clear that large labour migration keeps wage and cost developments down in some sectors, and it has consequences for the Nordics who work in these sectors. While for those who are not in these industries, we have a galloping wage and cost development. This is a demanding issue that requires balanced solutions based on a mixed economy. A mixed economy requires a strong nation-state, and the national state must have control of labour immigration in order for it to go well over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e535	Clearly, balanced solutions are important. It is also interesting to note that after eight years with the Central Party in government, the representative Lundtigen believes that we do not have a balanced labour migration. However, I would like to point out one thing, and that is that perhaps the most unbalanced and radical one can do, is exactly what the Central Party proposes in its party programme, and that is that Norway is to withdraw from the Schengen Agreement and out of the EEA Agreement. This will most likely lead to a radical decline in potential people in Europe – in Sweden, in Denmark, in Germany and the United Kingdom – coming to Norway and working as priests, as teachers, and as health sisters. Does not the Centerpartiet and the representative Lundteg not see that going out of Norway's most important international agreement will have major negative consequences for Norwegian welfare production and Norwegian value creation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e542	The EEA Agreement is not an international agreement; it is an agreement between the countries that are part of the EEA territory, so it is a European agreement. It is historically clear that we have had labour immigration at all times. That's the way it should be, and you have mutual use of it. But the problem is too small and too much. That's a problem. I, who is a biologist, know that too little fertilizer and too much fertilizer produce the same bad result. That is also part of the policy. One must be willing to rule, one must be willing to shape society in the desired direction. As we see today, there are economic, social and labour conditions in Norway. [[pointing down]] I'm waiting for the solutions from the new government to correct this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e557	The President believes that the representative, Mr Lundteg, should also make proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e560	That's absolutely right. I'm dealing with the proposals that the Central Party is on its own or is with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e567	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg has then addressed the proposals to which he referred. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e572	Everyone shall have the freedom to use their abilities for the best of their own and for the best of society. Of course, just as the liberal starting point is that everyone who really needs the help of society to live a worthwhile life will get it. That is why the Left's budget is a budget for more people in work and less poor. This is also a footprint we think is good again in the negotiated budgetary agreement with the Government Party and the Christian People's Party, which we are giving our support here today. The fact that most jobs are possible has great benefits for society and not least for the individual. Work is important in order to avoid poverty, and employment-related work has both health and social benefits. In Norway, we are in the lucky situation that relatively many people have a connection to the world of work — not least many women. At the same time, we are among the countries in the OECD area where people work at least, for hours a year and in the sense that very many work part-time. The adjustment for part-time is only 61 pst, which is the lowest in the Nordic region. This is a major challenge, not only today, but also tomorrow. In the future, labour demand will rise sharply. By 2050 almost 25 pst. in Norway, 65 years of age or older. In view of that, we need a targeted policy to get more hands at work. Everyone's coming, said they're red-green in 2005. But after eight years in the government offices, one has not been able to get more. Employment has barely kept pace with population growth, and hundreds of thousands are still outside the labour market and depend on different forms of performance. When we know what a huge wave of old age we're facing, it's very serious. The left-hand side says that many of those who can't work in a full-time position can still do a lot of work, for example. in part-time settings, in time-limited tasks adapted to work, etc. Therefore, the Left will have a more flexible disability and more use of good schemes, such as time-indeterminate wage increases. It is also important to provide better facilities for all those who want to start their own work. Left will guarantee self-employed workers equal rights to social schemes as other workers, for example: the right to sickness benefits. Equality of social rights is not least important to facilitate women who will dare to start their own jobs – for themselves and others. Poverty affects individuals, often unexpectedly and randomly — and for complex reasons. In Norway, over the last few years, we have had a huge space for action within the public budget. That there is no room for action that has benefited from a targeted effort to combat poverty, my Left is very sorry. In particular, schemes that are decisive for children’s living conditions should be rediscovered. The first priority of the left is, and has been, to reduce the poverty and health problems of children and families with children. Samla's proposal for an alternative state budget for 2014 leads to an accounting bet on a poverty fight of about $1.7 billion. kr. In the best liberal tradition, Left gives more to those who already have the least. Should the Norwegian welfare state be resilient in the future as well, we are totally dependent on designing different schemes, so that working always pays off. As outlined in the red-green government's perspective message, the combination of a coming wave of old age and falling petroleum revenues will soon create a big gap between what we collect and what we distribute. Smart countries are reforming in good times. Norway has every right to be such a smart country. It's just political will it's on. In the opinion of the Left, the Storting must soon dare to take a collective discussion about the level of various social security benefits. Particular attention should be paid, for example, to: The sick pay scheme and the permanent disability scheme – there is a very large gap between the two groups today. It is also crucial that a success be achieved in raising the real retirement age in the years to come. The pension reform is an important step in the right direction, but there are several changes that should be made. In particular, the government support for the AFP scheme should be phased out, which both distorts and undermines the intentions of the pension reform. The budget we are to adopt today is, in the view of the Left, a good budget for getting more people to work. Of course, it would be even better to adopt the alternative government budget of the Left, but it will give this room more opportunities to do the next few years. Finally, I would like to address the three proposals for the budget that have been submitted by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e606	The representative Sveinung Rotevatn then mentioned the proposals he has referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e611	The representative Rotevatn has published the perspective message that a certain man reads the Bible. He bases this message on most of the proposals from the Left to build up important welfare arrangements in society. I'm not going to distance myself from the number he's presenting. The problem is what he uses them to conclude – that the welfare state is not resilient, and that we have to weaken it. In his post, the representative Rotevatn took on my concerns and was very busy with the workline. We all mean that it's worth working. For me, it is a paradox that the Left embraces the blue-blue government, a government that is now in favour of more expensive kindergartens, not two kindergartens, strengthening cash support and partially maintaining tax class 2. My question to Rotevatn is then: are these political arrests in line with Left's goal of paying off work? And does Rotevatn mean that these changes strengthen the taskbar?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e623	Thank you for a good question. Firstly, the Left does not propose building up the welfare system in our alternative state budget, we suggest making important reforms, so that more work and more work can be done. But we also strengthen schemes that hit those who need it, most of all. For example, we strengthen the sick pay system for pregnant women. We've got a $1.7-billion poverty stake. kr plus, compared to the red-green government, because there are many who are poor in Norway today and need targeted tools, not wide ones, that hit the wrong way. That being said, I will address the concrete challenges he has – and they are good. When it comes to the perception of cash support, a Left's view of it is found in our alternative state budget. Now it's not like we're adopting the budget here alone in the Storting, and there's another party that might have a slightly different view of such arrangements than what we have. When it applies to class 2, the left actually agrees with the red-green in that it is in the long term a goal to phase this out, that the back principle is good. But if one takes everything in a jaf, it will certainly lead to much more poor children next year. Therefore, we should have a smoother transition with schemes that are adapted to those who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e634	It is quite obvious that the Left has a liberal tradition, and for many of us it is also becoming clearer and clearer that today's Left has increasingly a clear economic liberalist policy. It was said here that it would pay to work. It's all of us, without thinking about it, agree, while it's very demanding when we're going into the reality of that question. I would like to ask a question to the representative of the Left, who is going to a lonely mother with three minor children under the age of 18. What's her profession is reindeer. What does the Left want one to do in that case? Is the level of social security benefits going down, or is someone going to do something about the cleaning industry and the income there, so that it's the ones going up, and that makes it pay to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e643	Yes, it's true that the Left is in a liberal tradition. We're proud of that, and more should. It guarantees the freedom of the individual, and it ensures that we take responsibility for each other. Yes, it must always pay to work, and we must always have that as our governing principle when designing pension schemes, when designing welfare schemes and when designing our tax system. There are many in our society who have extra challenges both because of the family situation and because of the job they have. Then I'm going to urge the representative Lundteg to go into the alternative budget that Left has provided, which is targeted precisely to help those who have low incomes. For example, the left will raising the bottomline significantly — a targeted, sensible tax haven — increasing social aid rates with funding and taking the large overall poverty rate of 1.7 billion. kr. There are many people who should meet, and it ensures that those who should have the initiative to work more do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e652	The representative, Mr Rotevatn, and his party, the Left, have previously, most recently in the financial debate – and in the public debate – raised the need to facilitate the increased use of temporaryity for, among others. the provision of space for more people with reduced working capacity and working capacity in the workplace. This strongly protests the groups that organize these people. What is it that the Left has understood, and that neither the FFO, Norway's disability federation nor those who are themselves out of work with disabilities are aware of?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e659	It is true, as the representative Drettebergstien says, that the Left in its batch program is aimed at opening up something more to temporary settings in the private sector and in the municipal sector, that is to say to make changes to the Working Environment Act. We're looking forward to the government coming up with proposals for sensible changes there. We're going to join them, for example. This is because it facilitates people's ability to try their way into the workplace, such as their own. reports from Fafo have been shown and as the last report from the SSB has shown. It's not like you're going to liberalize all of the same things. Some places we think it makes sense to tighten up. For example, when it comes to the Services Act and the conditions in the State sector, we think there are too many temporary settings. In fact, it has been free for eight red-green years, without one wishing to vote in favour of any of the Left's proposals, for example. limiting the four-year rule to become a two-year rule. We want greater equal treatment between different sectors. This means that one should liberalise something in some sectors and tighten up others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e666	I would like to repeat my question, because I have heard the representative Rotevatn and other representatives from the Left call for more use of temporary posts, because it is supposed to help disabled people get into working life. Why is it that the organisations that organise these groups, such as Disabled people and the FFO, do not want this measure? They have faith in the Stoltenberg government's actions with an offensive job strategy to get help to get back or get into work. What has been the understanding of the Left, which the FFO and Norwegian Disability Association have failed to understand, as the Left continues to insist that temporary posts are correct for these groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e675	I don't think there's anything left that they don't know, or vice versa, but I think it might be a struggle against strawmen. What is proposed unanimously by the Left is, for example, the following: to facilitate more temporary settings in the private sector, but we also propose a number of permanent job creations and to make changes to labour market measures that strengthen the situation for those with disabilities. The representative will see that if she reads the alternative government budget of the Left. It is not that organisations working within a field always have all the arguments for that field. For example, the LO is not in agreement with the whole of the Left proposal, which we believe will ensure more jobs. That doesn't mean there's bad suggestions, that often means there's very good suggestions. But we have a good dialogue with all the organizations in the world of work. I think that if you go carefully into what we're proposing, you'll see that it will contribute to more jobs, both for those of us who have all the functions in order, and for those who need more organization in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e682	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e685	I am also very young in this work, but it has been a pleasure, and we have had good cooperation in the committee. Now it's time to keep up well in the field we're going to discuss here today. With great labour immigration, difficulties in keeping a good overview and more sectors where organisation is low and wages are even worse, we have a political responsibility for more security and stability. It's just opening the paper -- almost every day we see examples of this. If we give in and allow market forces to rule freely, the Norwegian labour force will change dramatically. The blue-blue government has announced several changes that move us closer to a society where people lose more of control over their lives and where the employer gains more power over each one. Many times when you hear blue speakers utter their messages, you can almost be tempted to think that there are most people for whom there should be a better relationship. They're talking about freedom and the family, and they're talking about flexibility and decoration. Here it's a matter of not being lured on the road. What about actually talking about the impossibility that the employer has to impose more working time just when it's right for the employer? We are talking about poorer family lives because workers are going to be less «normal». It shall be opened to require very long days for some periods and shorter days for other periods. Everything has to be adapted to employers' satisfaction. They should even have to work on holidays, Sundays. Some of us have jobs that are not adapted to the clock. It's okay, but then it has to be organized, and it has to be limited. When you hear about the major changes in working life, that the laws are no longer applicable, you wonder what work life on the right is that many people think we have. It's still the way we can't eat fish from an office in Oslo. The nurses cannot give medicine via their mobile phone or iPad. The kiosks are not kept open by the employees sending a message from the phone. Most people have to go to work, and they have to be there in the opening hours. That's the way it is, and that's the way it's going to be in the future, no matter how little the right side wants to talk about it. We have to provide a working life where you get to work until retirement, and where the person who cannot work because health does not tolerate it has to have safe, good health and good community benefits. For SV, this means that we want to work for a flexible work environment law – flexibility for workers. SV will work for a family-friendly working life, a work life where children can be picked up in a reasonable time, where hard work also gives a right to proper rest, a work life that is predictable for those who are going to go to work and stand in it. SV will work for a working life with good solutions, people should be safe. That is why we are voting against weakening state guarantees in the event of bankruptcy – that gives us uncertainty. SV will work for safe performance when we get too sick to work or need other help to work. We will protect the disability benefits, ensure that unemployed single parents get a real income while qualifying, and secure permitation schemes that keep the companies on their feet when the times get tough. People are our most important resource. The policy's task is to ensure the management of working life — for value creation, for families, for security and for people's health. If we're going to do that, we don't need any more unsafe temporary jobs. We don't need people losing more when businesses go bankrupt. We do not need lower permitting legislation or lower transitional benefits for single job-seekers, unemployed parents. In the next few years, there'll be a tough fight. SV is ready to join in and take that fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e708	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e711	All parties have a fundamental desire to make the world a little bit better for everyone. There are often different instruments. The government has a desire to do something about child poverty. But at the same time, we know that to make children feel better, the situation of adults needs to be improved. An important tool is to create more jobs. For the government, it is about stimulating tax policy. Good framework conditions create growth and the possibility to distribute more well-being. Values must be created before they can be distributed. The alternative is less to distribute. Article 3 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child refers to the best interests of the child as a central concept in the work on children and the living conditions of children. What, in your party's opinion, is the best thing for your child to do in combating child poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e723	SV has not said that the child's poverty can be eliminated with a pen stroke. It's a long-term process. SV will work for more redistribution and justice. The share of the poor is the lowest in a good time – at least between 10 and 15 years. So that's an improvement. We believe that it is not the way to go as the new government does, by cutting children's supplements for the disability and cutting in the transitional social security benefits of lonely dependants. That's the wrong way to go. SV means the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e732	In the post, there was a lot of criticism of the government, but I didn't hear a single word about what the representative and the Socialist Left Party want to do to get more people to work. One thing that really surprises me in this debate and not least in the vote that we are going to have later today is what happens when the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left propose a strengthened commitment to the fight against poverty by strengthening voluntary teams and associations. I remember well then the party leader in SV, Kristin Halvorsen, who was to rid the world of poverty with a pen stroke. Then it is strange that much indicates that the representative from SV today will vote against increased appropriations. I simply wonder why the representative chooses to vote against appropriations that can contribute to the fight against poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e741	I almost have to allow myself to use some of the answer I gave instead. Me and SV do not believe that combating poverty can be done with a pen stroke. It's a long-term process. We see our solutions in a larger context. We have our solutions to this, and cutting the social benefits of the people who need them the most is not the solution to this. The solution is also not to cut the transitional benefit, cut social assistance, and we do not believe that temporary jobs are the safest. It's uncertain, and it's not to secure the work community.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e748	One may have a big debate on whether or not the Swedish Government promised that poverty would be abolished with a pen stroke, but I think most people, both in this room and in the population, got along with the famous debate in 2005. It is strange that the representative Ingebrichtsen now believes that SV has never promised it, all the time the party leader, Kristin Halvorsen, had to go out and complain that she broke that election vow. But I did not get an answer to my question about why the Socialist Left Party here today is going to vote against increased allocation to teams and associations that want to fight poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e755	I said what I and SV don't mean now – not what Kristin Halvorsen has said before. There's a difference between that and that. To the second question, which I've also answered, we have our priorities, which we have in a long-term range. That's the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e762	I see SV as a party that is occupied by tidy working conditions, and that the right to a permanent job is important. It also does the Left, and therefore we have repeatedly suggested tightening up access to temporary additions to the state, as mentioned earlier today, where this has been the general rule rather than the exception. The last week we could read in the Newspaper about the conditions in the academy, where people are going for years without any chance of getting a steady job. Interventions can be an important way into the workplace for many and make it easier for employers to let people try out. But in the state left, the limit of four years to go in temporary additions is too high. We want to tighten her up to two years before you have the right to a permanent job. My question is whether SV is satisfied with the state of things in the academy after having run the sector for eight years, or whether they are some with Left now in that it is time for a tightening of the service law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e773	We can also see that temporary employment can have a short-term effect, but that is not what should be anchored for the workers, and that is not what should provide security for many years. We also see that in the state there may be some challenges that we need to look at a little bit further in order to get more predictability and security, like in private business. We're going to be involved in what might be best for the workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e780	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e783	The objective of the right-hand party government is a safe, flexible and family-friendly working life with room for all. In order to ensure this, it is important that we manage to have a low level of unemployment and a high level of employment. A well-functioning labour market is essential for each and every one to realize their dreams and ambitions, and for working pay. The ambitions of the right-wing Party government include: to strengthen the efforts of groups facing challenges of getting into work or staying in work over time. The draft budget contains concrete measures that demonstrate the ability to prioritise, as the government has said in the platform. A stronger social security network is one of the main areas of government activity. I am therefore pleased that the government, together with the cooperation parties Left and Christian People's Party, is already implementing several measures in 2014 that will help to close the gaps in the security network. The government expects around normal economic growth in 2014 and related normal labour demand. In the supplementary proposal, we assume that the number of persons employed will increase by 1 pst, or nearly 30,000 people, from this year to next year. Employment growth is likely to help keep unemployment fairly stable around the current level of about 3.5 pst. The level of unemployment is currently low, in both a Norwegian and an international perspective. The government's policy is based on the estimates provided by the Central Statistical Office and the Bank of Norway. The government's labour market policy for next year must be seen in the context of our expectations of economic development and government's prioritisation of a growth-enhancing policy. A good growth in employment and a low number of outpatients are now the basis for tightening up the permeability use, so that outpatients are not locked in activity when other enterprises are in need of labour. I would like to remind you that the previous regime for permitting was created when the financial crisis was at its greatest. Then we had 18,000 people who were out of office. Today, we have 2,800 people who are on leave. The government's vision is a society where everyone can participate. We have therefore given priority to increasing the response to those who are at a disadvantage in the labour market. Therefore, action against people with disabilities is proposed to increase by 3000 places in 2014 compared to 2013. This is good politics. We know that the impact of participation in labour market measures varies between groups, and we also know that these measures have the best impact for people with disabilities, long-term unemployed persons and people with weak links to the labour market. I am therefore very pleased that the government is offensive about what more people in this room have pointed out – to realize the dream of more people who are currently outside the labour market, to have the opportunity to participate in the labour market. It's an important goal for the government, it's an important priority, and it's something we have full pressure on. That is why I am pleased that we now have clear priorities in this area. The majority decided in 2013 to ratify the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The right-wing Party Government is committed to working well and purposefully to follow up the intention of the Convention on a society with room for all, regardless of its function. In this budget, we propose several measures that will give disabled people greater opportunities to live an active and independent life. Let me take a few examples, which are also evidence of a better social security network: a system of support for activity aids for people over 26 years of age from 1 July 2014 and we are proposing to increase the appropriations by 30 million. NOK – to SEK 55 million. kr. It is right that the representative, Mr Andersen, pointed out that it was the Stoltenberg government that proposed this, but it is also right that those who signed the opposition started the debate by promoting a proposal for a representative, which was followed up by the Stoltenberg government and which was now in their draft state budget. It is also true that the previous government made less money, which would have made the disabled over the age of 26 who need activity aids the most likely would have run out of funding in September. The false hope doesn't want this government to be on, and that's why we make sure that we have enough money, which satisfies the possibilities to realize that more people get to participate in activity, in leisure and get the help they need. I am also very proud that the government is withdrawing funds for small aids. The previous government removed these funds. This means that disabled people who need many small resources were unable to get these resources. The right-wing Party government gives them back the opportunity, gives them the opportunity to have a participating life, the ability to function optimally at home, the ability to have better quality of life. It's a good policy that provides a better social security network. And not least, the government will also strengthen the service dog scheme by $3 million. kr. In addition, I am also very pleased that the government parties together Christian People's Party and the Left in Stortinget have agreed to spend 5.5 million. to voluntary teams and organisations to combat poverty. This also shows that a better social safety net is being created for the very weakest – 5.5 million. kr more than the previous government. In addition, the government proposes 5 million. More social entrepreneurship, which will help more people to get help, the ability to realize their dream of getting out of a difficult situation, of going from social exclusion to social inclusion. It's positive, and it's good, and it also shows that this government has managed to prioritise it. In conclusion, I would like to pay tribute to the representative Andersen for the constructiveness and signals he gives on behalf of his party as an opposition party. I am pleased that Andersen's representative, as I am so clearly concerned with Nav, is so clear that he wants to be there and make sure that we get a simplified hub, a smaller bureaucratic hub, a hub that is better suited to the users. I agree with Andersen's representative that we should succeed in providing users with the best possible follow-up, and maintaining the user perspective, yes, we need continuous processes to succeed in simplification, to improve the follow-up and, not least, to create a hub that provides a proper view of how Nav should be for people in the years to come. I am pleased to address this work of simplifying, debureaucraticating and modernizing Nav from a user perspective. I think the signals given from the largest opposition party are beautiful and deserve commendation, and I am pleased to cooperate with the Storting on these simplifications that we are going to undertake. The representative, Andersen, said in his speech that the state council as an opposition politician was colorful and flourishing. It has tried to be to ladies throughout their adult life, but they perceive him as increasingly gray and boring, and then it is little comfort that it is Andersen's representative who sees me as 'colorful and flowering'. [[muttering in the hall]] I would also like to remind the representative Andersen that the previous government also proposed increasing the minimum pension to 2 G. It was not done in the first financial year, but it was done gradually. Also, this government and I stand firm for what I have said about pension policy; I insist that we reduce the curtailment for married and cohabiting pensioners, which will mean better purchasing power, and that will come during the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e825	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e828	First, I would like to say thank you for the feedback, that we can have a dialogue on the development of policy in the future. I must admit that the concept of ‘flowering and colorful’ was chosen because Andersen’s representative is fully aware that the concept of ‘breathing’ is not a parliamentary expression. [[muttering in the hall]] I want to ask the Council of State questions about the fact that we have just received the analysis of the situation on the labour market in Norway from the Holden Committee, which, in my opinion, gives a very good impression of continuing the tradition of the Norwegian model, where the model of cooperation between the social partners is one of the bearers – and for us it has always been. This is contrary to the party leader Siv Jensen's speech to the national meeting where she claimed ten times that the Norwegian model stands the way for the Norwegian people. Does the State Council agree that the Holden Committee provides a good basis for cooperation between the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e843	Thank you for an important question. With respect to reporting, I have not bothered to read the entire Holden Committee configuration, but I have read the summary, and I agree that what is in that setting provides the basis for good cooperation. I would also like to stress that the government is very concerned about ensuring good, real tripartite cooperation, and that good solutions are to be found with the parties in the future in terms of labour policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e848	I agree that the position of the Holden Committee is a very good starting point, but with regard to the emphasis of the Holden Committee on the need for cooperation with the parties and the state, and with regard to the emphasis of the Holden Committee on the fact that the front-line model is going to be crucial for sustainable wage developments in the future, both of the key points in the Norwegian model are underlined. Therefore, my question is: if the Council of State Eriksson agrees with the Holden Committee, does that mean that he disagrees with his party leader, Siv Jensen, that the Norwegian model stands in the way of the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e853	No, I don't disagree with party leader Siv Jensen, and I remember that national meeting speech very well. You have to look at that national meeting in an overall perspective and get the whole thing into it, because what was the basis of party leader Siv Jensen, and I fully agree with, is that any welfare society, any working life, is never static. It's dynamic and constantly evolving. Then you don't have to face the challenge, the future, by going with your butt first – to put it that way – and using the mechanisms that have been in the past, and being stuck to them only. At any time, one must also be willing to look at – within the basic thinking of the Norwegian and Nordic models – how we can develop it more offensively, more correctly, in order to meet the challenges of the future in terms of development, both on the welfare side and in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e858	In the last few years, we've had what I'd call unworthy examples that the care scheme doesn't work as it should. We have seen cases where parents have wanted to be home with a seriously ill child and have been denied Nav. The socio-economic consequences are special, because that means that instead of a parent wanting to be at home with his kid, it could be, it might cost millions of people in an institution. The Christian People's Party has tabled proposals repeatedly, taken it up, and we have voted for this several times together with the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The previous government took a long time, put down a sample – nothing happened. Can the Council of State say anything about what he thinks about the progress of that matter? Because I expect there's going to be a change in that field right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e865	Thank you very much for a very important question, a question that I have been concerned about all my years as a representative of the Stortinget, and which I am just as concerned about now as the Council of State. I've seen many examples of this, and I've visited many of the most seriously ill children. I've seen what challenges, what problems, they face in their everyday lives. Here we are not just talking about – as the representative Ropstad says – parents who want to be at home with their children, but about cases where it is absolutely necessary for parents to be at home and with their children in order to avoid having them in an institution. Therefore, the government and the government platform are clear and clear that we want to reform the care scheme. We will start that work during 2014. When we're done with that review, it's too early to say now, but also the Christian People's Party will be involved in that process.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e870	Today, when we talk about the labour market and working life, we define it as paid or profitable work. There is a lot of other work that is also being done, but that is what we are talking about today. As the members of the Right and the Advance Party have said in the Committee, and they also write in the vote: ‘A well-functioning labour market is essential for each one’s dreams and ambitions to be realized [[...]] Now, when we're going to discuss the future of the labour market and of the labour market, you have to try to get a common sense of reality about where we stand. And as the Council of State said, both society and working life are dynamic; it's always changing. Then it's important to be aware of where the change is going. How is it going to change today? I have asked the question of where the development is going, both to the Right Majority Arve Kambe and to the Principality of the Advancement Party, Erlend Wiborg, and have not received an answer. What does the Council of State answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e882	Thank you for a big, rich and important question. It will certainly be that the undersigned and the representative of Lundteg may not agree on the prescription, but we would like to have a good debate on it. First of all, I believe – and the government believes – that because family structures have changed, there is a need for change, more flexible adaptations in terms of working time regulations, and that more power and authority are being shifted down to local level. I am very concerned that the employee himself, as close as possible to his job, is involved in influencing his working day, his working time, and getting more influence and opportunity to do so. The individual worker is the best person to see what flexibility he or she needs in order to get his or her privacy, working life and family life to go together in a good way. That's why we want to look at it. That's why we're going to quickly set up a social committee that can look at all of this, and the social partners will be part of such a work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e887	The undersigned is delighted to be the case-speaker of a contractual pension in this budgetary procedure. In connection with that, I read in committee from last year. There was a lot of sense there. E.g.: there was some sense in the comment made by the impending representative Eriksson and the rest of the progress of the party fraction. Among other things, I could read: ‘These members distance themselves from a policy in which the State is to subsidise the pension to some selected persons, in order to obtain a ‘gold edge’ early retirement scheme. These members believe that the task of the State is to provide for good general welfare arrangements, both to be adopted and to be adopted by the Stortingen, not to settle wages and salaries.» And on the other hand, ‘These members will also point out that the AFP is divided differently in society. Highly educated women in small and medium-sized enterprises will be among the losers.» I thought in essence that was a pretty reasonable remark. That's why it was a little sad not to see him in this year's budget. My question is, why has the Progress Party changed its vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e907	Firstly, I would like to remind the representative Rotevatn that the AFP is a contractual pension, concluded between the social partners. It is also clear from the Progress Party's programme that we are dealing with agreements that have been concluded, and it is based on the Progress Party's policy. The government’s policy and government platform are also clear and clear about the relationship with agreements concluded and the need to maintain the AFP. If you want to make changes to the AFP, there's something that has to happen in a cooperation between the parties. There is nothing to be decided on in a budget super-budget. I think we should respect the AFP system that the parties have been involved in negotiating. We've got a good AFP system. What will be important now is to ensure that we have a system similar to that in the public sector that we have in the private sector, in order to maximise flexibility and mobility in Norwegian working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e914	The North Sea divers were pioneers and absolutely necessary for Norway to participate in the oil adventure. Without the North Sea divers, we would not have had, for example. the oil fund, to which Mr. 5000 billion was added. kr here a day. They paid dearly. They paid with their physical health and mental health, and that also affected families. Yesterday came an important verdict that gives the divers right. In this case, the Progress Party and SV have been in complete agreement. The divers deserve something completely different, and I also see that the Vice President of the Advance Party believes the same thing. That's exactly where we agree. Will the Council of State use its authority to re-approve the joint proposal of the SV and the 2005 Progress Party, which was also part of the Central Party, to give an economic uplift and compensation in accordance with the applicable compensation rules, as if the State had legal responsibility for the pioneer divers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e922	Thank you for the question. The government takes note of the verdict. That means we don't anchor the sentence. This means paying out the surcharge that the judgment has given to the North Sea divers of EUR 8 000. Both the government and I said yesterday that it is important that we now get a good say in the verdict, and then we in the government will consider how we will deal with the various questions and the further process in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e927	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e930	Labour immigration has been a prerequisite for the growth that Norway has experienced in recent years and continues to have. Without Swedes, Poles and labour from other countries, both our business and welfare services in Norway had looked completely different. At the same time, it is not going to come from the fact that when many people come to us from other countries with mass unemployment and worse standards of work than what we take as a matter of course, it puts pressure on our working life. That is why it is so important that we do not weaken the work environment and acquired rights, that we stimulate the organisation of work and strong tripartite cooperation, and that the authorities have effective measures against social dumping, because if we accept a different and worse standard for those who come here from other countries, we get it very quickly – with worse conditions for us all and more difficult to include those who have reduced working capacity, or by the fact that industries that fail to meet the standard will not be attractive enough for Norwegian youth, and that we lose important environments of competence. Immigration is one of the main reasons why the population of Norway is increasing. It is an expression that Norway is a country with growth and development, where the prospects are good. Those who come to Norway from other countries will be met with the same delivery gel on which we have built the Norwegian community, namely: Do your duty, demand your right. We're going to make arrangements, but we're also going to make demands. Not least, we should demand to learn Norwegian and participate in the labour market. It is a prerequisite for the inclusion of the individual in a good way in the Norwegian society, and it is crucial for the sustainability of the welfare state. Also in the municipal debate on Wednesday, this was a central theme. Then the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, Solvency Horne, said that it is important that we focus on the fact that immigrant women also come into work, and that they see the importance of being out of work and earning money and becoming self-sustaining. I fully agree with that. However, there remains, as a major unanswered question, how do immigrant women see the importance of it, as long as the Right and Advance Party in government so strongly stimulate women to leave the labour market – because while increasing the nursery prices, cuttings in the escalating towards two kindergartens, and reintroducing tax class 2, they increase cash support and they are to expand it further, to include two-year-olds. This will, of course, lead to more women being out of work. It's a break in the line of work, and it has very unfortunate consequences for integration. An example of this is that in 2009 it had 80 pst. by the two-year-olds who received cash support in the capital, minority background. So when the right-hand side argues for more cash support with an argument that it will give more freedom of choice, I think it is also important to raise the question of whether this is the way you best ensure the most future freedom of choice for the kids concerned, when we know how important it is for the children to be able to Norwegian when they start school. For young people as well as for society, it is best to facilitate inclusion and language training as early as possible. Several of the speeches today have been about work being the way out of poverty. I totally agree with that, too. But when we know at the same time that the immigrant population is overrepresented in precisely poverty statistics, there is once again reason to ask what kind of freedom the Right and the Advance Party offer these people, when you so strongly encourage not to participate in the labour market. This week, the Labour Party has been accused by the Progress Party of stigmatising the immigrant population by addressing this issue. It's in itself a little special, but not least it's a wrong claim, precisely because work, language and social inclusion are related. It is precisely if we become unclear about it, we risk immigrant groups being left out of work, and then the path to lasting alienation and stigmatisation is short.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e941	As a driver and responsible minister for the coordination of government policies for people with disabilities, I have a wide range of issues to deal with. It may be a small chapter in the big labour and social budget, but it's so infinitely important. As many people have experienced today, too many people have a challenge to get into the workplace, or to stay at work over time. A well-functioning labour market is essential for each one to realize its dreams and ambitions. It is important to facilitate the use of working capacity by disabled persons, even if it does not always become full-time. The government's objective is a safe and flexible labour market, in order to ensure low unemployment and high employment. It's about equal opportunities, it's about equal rights and equality for everyone. It is also important that a good, modern infrastructure is not just about – as yesterday, maybe – the four-field motorway from A to B. It is also about the organisation of opportunities. It is about having sufficiently good parking spaces for people with disabilities, it is about all public transport being organised and accessible to people with different needs, and it is about both airports, ferry terminals and ports complying with universal design requirements. On Monday I went to Standard Norway to deliver four new standards. The broad involvement of many different environments and user organisations is important for the quality of standards. The considerations discussed and affected in the standards relate to the elderly and disabled, but they are also a guide to the quality of society that matters to all of us. Freedom of choice is important, but there is also a great responsibility here. Anyone who chooses not to follow good and well-managed advice should consider the consequences it has for its own activities and for those served by it. Everyone has to feel involved. It is a responsibility which rests on public and private activities, and it also rests on the individual. A central part of the government’s modernisation project is the use of ICT. It provides opportunities for each individual to meet a 24-hour public sector, higher quality of service, increased value creation and better decision-making. The prerequisite for the solutions is that they should be accessible to all, and therefore this government will focus on universal design within ICT. Security of assistance and care when needed is an important pillar of our welfare society, and it is at the heart of the government's values. Ensuring good health and care services to all when the need arises is a public responsibility. Universal design becomes a priority task. It is about good accessibility for people with disabilities. It's also about giving our society qualities that benefit everyone, not just those that are functionally healthy. The government will also work to follow up the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was adopted at Stortinget in ours. It affects all areas of society, and it is an important framework for the work we are about to do. I see that the Labour and Social Committee has its own comment on grants to organisations of disabled people, and I can assure it that a new legislation is being developed now. The new legislation will ensure a fairer distribution of grant funds, it will simplify, and it will stimulate fewer, but larger, organisations. In a transitional phase, it is stressed that no organisations will lose in this conversion. The final amendments shall enter into force in 2014. Youth organisations may apply for operational support from 2014, including peer grants. The youth organisations meeting the operational support requirements may also apply for grants to summer camps for disabled children with special needs and assistance needs of disabled people’s organisations. So the requirements of the comments of the Labour and Social Committee are met in the new legislation, and I can assure the Stortinget and the Committee that it will be closely followed up in the further work of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e958	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e961	Work and family are the most important factors in most people's lives. The possibilities of combining work and family life are decisive for employment, for equality, for productivity and, not least, for well-being. When the government now cuts the fees to the kindergartens, it stops the initiative for two kindergartens, increases parental pay and reduces the father's quota, while increasing and expanding the cash support, there are many who fear that this will affect employment – perhaps especially in women. Does the Council of State believe that this policy will make it more profitable to work and less profitable to be at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e968	I thank you for the question. Equality in today's society does not depend on four weeks of Dad's quota. What is important for this government is to ensure families freedom of choice and flexibility in a busy infant phase. What is also important for this government is that families should be able to have freedom of choice through the introduction of cash support. It has never been taken out as much cash support as under the Stoltenberg II administration. There is now an increase of NOK 1000 compared to what was under the Stoltenberg II government. It will allow more opportunities for a short period of time to choose a more flexible scheme for their family. But the cash support will never replace an employee income. Therefore, it is important that we also focus on women getting into work and becoming self-sustaining, by having an income from work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e979	The answer from the state council is complete in the fog home. The government itself admits that the changes it makes in this area will reduce the demand for childcare space, which then must mean less in work, because someone has to be home and take care of these children. I think it's immature family policy. I mean, it's a big paradox. The government agrees that the working line is important and that more people have to contribute to the world of work. The paradox and the big question is, when councillor Eriksson is so busy getting people to work, why is councillor Horne so busy keeping people home?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e986	The President would point out that the characterisation of answers from the Council of State as ‘in the fog home’ may not be entirely parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e989	That's good it's blue sky out there! It also shows that we have received a blue government, which focuses on flexibility – as I have said – and freedom of choice for the families of young children in a small period of time we are talking about here. [[Laughter]] It's important for the government to keep the line of work and get people out of work. It's possible to do two things at once. We have a modern family policy. We've increased the optional part of the parental leave. We have also increased the cash support, which allows a family to make slightly different choices in a short period of time. It must be possible for this government – like the previous government – to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. Also during the Stoltenberg II administration, children's gardening was less used when one saw that several people took out cash support – as the Stoltenberg II government helped to increase.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1000	I think it's a special day to take credit for the blue sky – I think there's a full storm in most of the country. But now it has to be. I'd rather praise the council because she's in Stortinget today. I do not think I remember the Minister for Children and Gender Equality coming to the budget debate last time. At least it's important that she's here today. As she underlined in her post, this is a broad and important field. The field of employment and social affairs has many of the important areas in which the Council of State works. I'm glad the Council of State defends the fact that it's about family policy. In my post I was concerned that the family is not just a production unit. We're going to contribute to work and to the community, but it's important that families facilitate a safe growth, which will once again give good results. My question to the Council of State concerns the follow-up to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which we have ratified. What things will she come back to Stortinget with – to ensure a good follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1012	I thank you for the question. I believe that the Labour and Social Committee and the Family and Culture Committee – and both the two departments – have many common issues, which are interrelated and interrelated. It's important that we all have that understanding. In this particular field, it might be a small part, but universal design is important to the government. It's giving everyone – with the assumptions they have – opportunities. To facilitate this, it is important that we all have ownership and work with. This government will follow up the UN Convention. I can unfortunately not answer exactly what we will follow up with, but the follow-up to the ratification will be an important work, which I will take with me further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1021	Equality policy and labour policy are in many ways two sides of the same coin. Nothing is more important to ensure equality in Norway than to ensure equal access to and opportunities in the labour market for both sexes. And of course, it's about far more than formalities. When women are pregnant, there is a tendency to get pregnant, simply because there is a lot of disease and absence associated with pregnancy. This is a burden on many employers and is one of many small factors that together can make it less attractive to add women. Therefore, in its alternative state budget, the Left proposes to exempt employers from sickness insurance in the event of absence during pregnancy. This is a good and accurate tool, which costs a moderate of 130 million. kr, it is positive for business and strengthens equality. Will the Council of State work to ensure that this is the cheeky eye of a proposal can get more than the voice of the Left on the next occasion?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1030	I can promise the representative from the left that I will at least bring it with me and assess it. I expect that we will come back to Stortinget with this. The left is now in a good position – they want to influence both matters and budgets in the future – so that we can look forward to good cooperation here. Gender equality policy is important for this government. Gender equality policy does not just belong to my field – it belongs to all the fields we have in society. Gender equality is different – according to each person in society. What becomes important for this government to focus on is that we have a lot of laws. We have the Equality Act, the Labour Environment Act and the Anti-Discrimination Act, but it is not a good enough enforcement apparatus around this. What I have now started, and which is also clear in the government platform, is working on a universal equality and anti-discrimination law. I think we have to be so tough that we also have to look further – that we manage to enforce the laws we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1039	After several loud protests and allegations and fears that universal housing design requirements would lead to increased costs, the previous government – the red-green – ordered a report from SINTEF on this very point. The report is available and says that there were just horrors. There will be no significantly higher costs. Will the Council of State continue to ensure that disabled people have access to housing? We're concerned with universal design requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1046	I have not read the report, but I think there are different perceptions of this – whether it will be more expensive or not more expensive dwellings with the new rules. What matters to me as the Council of State is to make sure that we have housing, that it is universal design both for those who need housing, and for those who need to move out in society, and that we have good tools for this. I've also been a municipal politician and I've heard that a person is talking very nicely about universal design, but when it comes to it, a person often isn't good enough to do it. A lot of people forget what this means. That's why focusing on universal design is important to me as the Council of State. Then we're going to get back to the rules of the Planning and Building Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1055	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1058	Our political opponents in the election campaign tried time and again to create a scare picture that a government with the Right and the Advance Party would mean a fury of the welfare state. The Norwegian people were not fooled. We got a big deal with historically many representatives on the civil side. The people wanted a new political direction with more confidence in the individual and more spread of power. The red-greens have also tried to doubt the ownership of the Norwegian welfare state. Let there be no doubt about it, the Nordic welfare model is a political joint ownership that is embraced by both the right and the left of Norwegian policies, and the Right-Fremskrit Party government will build on it. But we want a policy that gives more responsibility and authority to the individual, the family and the local environment. We want the modernisation and simplification of the welfare state. After the election, the red-green opposition has charged the government with a breach of promises. Breaking the vows with regard to what? Is it a breach of promises because the policy that is being pursued did not become as frightened as they were? Then it's the red-green ones who are doing lifting breaks, because they were startled that the Right Party and the Advance Party were going to rage at the welfare state. We said, on the other hand, that we would suspend the Nordic welfare model and build on it, and that also shows the budget submitted. In the Right we are clear that we want a society with opportunities for everyone, and it is an overall objective of labour and social policy to help as many people as possible to experience the security and joy of having a gainful job. Too many people are out of work. Although we have low unemployment rates, 600 000 people in pre-age employment are totally or partially unemployed because they are on health-related social security schemes. The proportion of young people with disabilities is increasing, particularly those with mental health problems. No disease costs both society and not least the individual more than mental disorders. It is therefore important to target measures to allow more young people to enter the labour market. In the submitted budget, the government has reinforced the efforts of people with disabilities by 3000 more action places in 2014 than in 2013. This will benefit those who strive to enter the labour market. One example is the small enterprise Joe Silver Communication in Asker. It started as a small single person enterprise five years ago. The initiator was a father who tried to create a job for his adult, a dissatisfied son, who is struggling with mental health problems. The company today consists of five employees and a manager. Nav is supported. Employees are both people who have mental health problems and those who have physical disabilities. The work they carry out for enterprises and individuals is the conversion/digitalisation of sound and images in all formats, such as: transmission of video cassettes such as VHS, Mini-DV and Super 8 films to DVD. They have a lot to do, and they do a good job in a small, safe and pleasant working environment, which promotes social training, security, and having an experience of contributing to society. I want to say it so strongly that it's a human right that anyone who can, has the light and the ability, will have a new chance of getting into the workplace. All those who can work, in whole or in part, we have to arrange for them to get to work. It contributes to a stronger social security network. The Young People with Disabilities organisation presented a study called Young and Disabled earlier this autumn. All the informants in the study said they had a strong desire to work and contribute to society. For most people, the workplace is the most important social arena and the non-family network. The job is not only important as a source of income, it is also important as a good social security network. The new government wants a working life with good arrangements that include as much as possible. We realize that it doesn't work well enough today. It doesn't work well enough when some people with disabilities feel that they have had a disability in the 18-year-old barn from Nav. If we are to get more people to work, we need not only good politics, but also a working life where leaders focus on what individuals can do, and not look blindly at limitations. The new government wants to facilitate an open working life, through, among other things. to extend access to temporary employment, in order to make the rules of the private sector more similar to those of the country. Nevertheless, permanent employment should be an objective and the general rule of the labour and working environment laws. A temporary position may in some cases be the reason why an employer dares to give some opportunity, and may be a stepping stone to a permanent job for someone who has been out of work for a long time. It's about trying out new systems, seeing the individual human being, caring and not letting the systems stand in the way of the good solutions. I hope we can work on this across the political lines. In the work of including as much as possible in the workplace, we have to let go of all good forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1086	Ever since the Nav reform was introduced, it has been possible to read about challenges within this sector. The media image has been marked by unfortunate things about everything from people who don't get payments they're entitled to, to people who get payments they don't have a right to, that is. social security abuse and fraud. To improve the situation for both users and employees, the government will take a full look at Nav, where the goal is to simplify and red tape, so that everyday life becomes easier for both employees and users and more can go from social security to work. A contribution in this context is an ICT modernisation. In order to ensure progress in this modernisation, the operating budget of the State of Labour and Welfare is now strengthened by 100 million. kr. The workline is strong in the Right-Fremskritspart government. It's worth your while to work. This is important for the sustainability of the economy, society and the individual's self-realization. An important measure in this context is the efforts made by the government in several action areas. The Government proposes to strengthen the efforts of people with disabilities with a total of 3000 different places from 2013 to 2014. This measure, which favours the weakest groups, is for those who need a little extra help to get out of work. Funds are allocated to a total of 69,700 intervention sites in 2014. In addition, there are 400 places for the test of redundancy payments as wage subsidies. In total, this is going to be over 70,000 places. With the SV at the head, the Stoltenberg government was about to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke. Status after eight years of red-green rule is not much to brag about. It must certainly be one of the greatest lifting breaches of the departed government. The most important measures to combat poverty may be a good school, it's good teachers, it's an open and flexible working life. With the targeted tax relief and commitment of the Right-wing Party Government to research and education, it will lead to growth and development for business. Combined with flexibility in working life, both working time and employment, such measures will provide more jobs. An important and concrete area of the Right-wing-Fremskrit Party government is increasing support for voluntary poverty measures. The government's going to grant $5 million. kr extra for voluntary work, which will contribute positively to activities such as: The Salvation Army and the Church's Social Service are being strengthened by the impressive work they do every day for disadvantaged people all over Norway. In order to improve the quality of life of the blind and disabled, the Right Party Government allocates 3 million. NOK for the purchase of the claimant. There are dogs for users who have previously been assigned a service dog, and the purpose is to replace dogs that get sick or retire, so that users do not lose this good offer they have. Dogs are essential for both helping with practical tasks in everyday life, such as actually emptying the dishwasher, and being a social support player, friend or just a family member. It might sound a little special with dogs emptying the dishwasher, but that's actually the case. There are dogs that can contribute such services at home to those who need it. It's a fantastic offer, which we want to strengthen. The budget now being presented has a good social profile. We strengthen the working line, and we contribute to the extra focus on those who fall out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1103	For the sustainability of the Norwegian welfare state in the future, it is absolutely essential that we strengthen and not weaken the working line. The first budget of the government is already breaking with that intention. The representative of the Progress Party, Johnsen, cannot say that this is a budget that strengthens the line of work. No, that's not it – on the contrary. It is a budget that weakens the working line with a number of measures, and it is a government that warns that more disruptions to the working line will occur in the coming years. In addition to maintaining and strengthening the working line, our biggest challenge in the future is social dumping and, as we see, labour crime, despite the eight-year effort of the red-green government, it is still spreading. We've managed to stag some of that development. We know that there would have been more social dumping and more crime without our actions, but we are in no way in the goal. We presented proposals for new measures in the campaign this summer. We adopted a new measure in a third action plan in Stortinget as late as June. Before that, we had presented two action plans, a package of measures against illegal renting. Some 40 powerful measures against social dumping came with the red-green government, together with a strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate, powerful new tools and tools for the trusted ones, to mention something. Government parties have voted against the most powerful of these instruments. The parties to the Government have voted against the measures which have been proved to be effective. The government platform only says that the measures put in place should be evaluated before any new action can be considered – no new ideas, no new solutions, no visions or concrete proposals for solutions to what may be our main challenge in the future. The government may have been busy with other things at Sundvollen – government negotiations can be demanding. But in the autumn, government parties have had the chance and every opportunity to realize how serious and serious the problem of social dumping is. They have served several serious examples of gross social dumping and exploitation of foreign labour – without the government having responded to what they want to do with it. In the debate here today, I do not hear a single measure being mentioned either, not a single word about what the government's plan is in this area. On the contrary, I feel that the problem is hardly mentioned. The representative, Mr Kambe, mentioned in the change of line that the industry programmes should be distorted. Business program's good, but that's not enough. Without a strong toolbox for the many thousands of trusted people out there who every day do the job in every single job, without transparency and right of action, without measures to make it easier to take the unprofessional so that, without regional protection or solidarity, the fight against social dumping is put back in time, and the problem will increase. The debate today shows as far as a defensive government, with no focus on the issue, no answer to what they will do, or whether they will reverse the measures and, where appropriate, what measures they will reverse. We do not need further evaluation in order to continue to take action against social dumping. The previous government evaluated many of the measures. They've worked. The Labour Party believes that we need, and we are working on, new measures to stop development, to prevent social dumping from taking new strangleholds on our working life. So the government will wait and see. How many examples must the government present before they act? How bad is it going to be? Waiting and looking goes beyond the many thousands of workers who every day pay the price of the retired attitude to the government by having to work on inappropriate working conditions and wages that cannot be lived off.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1120	In the 1800s, a utopia was formulated by socialist Edward Bellamy. He saw a society in which we left retirement when we were 45 years old, and one of the technological advances was that you had cables inside their houses, which were connected to an orchestra, that sat and played directly. It's hard to imagine technological developments, just as it's hard to imagine how society is going to evolve. The community is incredibly complex, but we need it. We need it. Bellamy writes something very nice: we have all kinds of comfort at home, but the happiness of life we seek in society. No one can build a country alone. Land is built shoulder to shoulder, land is built together. Norway is not created from here. Norway is created jointly. Norway is created in the families and in the friends. Norway is created by the two-child father who is in attendance and prepares the crew tour for his kids. Norway is created by the high school girl, who says yes to being a football coach for the local high school, and Norway is created at work in collaboration with colleagues. Society is created through interaction. Political tradition varies from country to country. But traditions don't come of themselves. Traditions are working forward. No single party creates a political tradition, and I must say that it is frightening that it must be a reminder of a particular party when debating in this Chamber. In a civilized society like ours, we take care of each other. We're doing something to get those outside, back in. In civilised societies, we have a decent working life, and we know that a decent working life does not come about by itself. We know that the trade movement has played, plays and will play an important role in Norwegian working life. We know that it's right that it's like that and that it's good that it's like that. When the conflict lines in Norwegian policy go between whether this is correct or not, there are no real lines of conflict – there are caricatures. It's a parody, and really a pretty worthless parody, because it's a parody of something that doesn't exist. At the same time, we have confidence in each other in civilised societies. We have faith in the abilities and talents of our fellow humans. That's why we also have to make demands on each other. In it there is also a propriety. We cannot build policies without addressing the challenges we see ahead of us, for example. youth unemployment is almost three times higher than the overall unemployment rate in Norway. We know that the proportion of young people aged 15 to 24 who are employed is reduced by 5 percentage points after 2008. We also know that the proportion has fallen in the last year. We owe them for taking these issues seriously. Not long ago we were able to read in the paper a very nice story about a former drug addict, a young man, who had got a job. He had got a job through social entrepreneurship. He said he was incredibly grateful for it, and that if he was out of work, he might well have become a drug addict again. It shows that work is dignity. Social entrepreneurship is relatively new in Norway. I am pleased that the government is strengthening the appropriations considerably in this area, because it can be an important complement to public welfare. This is a budget that builds Norway further. There's a budget where the government makes some adjustments to seal holes in the security network, and to get more people out of work, so that more people get the opportunity to participate in the joint effort of creating the well-being of our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1147	The right-hand Party Government has clearly stated that the working line is to be continued, and initially it is positive. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the government also states that it ‘will give the individual greater freedom to govern his own life without interference from politicians and bureaucrats’. The red tape of society has begun, as the representative Wiborg said in his speech earlier here today. The Sundvolden Declaration goes on to say: «People with creativity and a desire for action must be given a larger lever.» Such statements can easily become flashy if they are not given concrete content. So far, it seems, unfortunately, that the line of work should be continued first and foremost by cutting down on measures and different social benefits such as disability pensions and transitional benefits and by tightening up sick pay and day-care schemes. When the Government Declaration states that an ‘incentive-based system to provide more opportunities for people to enter the labour market’ appears to be the most important incentive to provide those with the least, even less — in other words, the knife on the throat. There appears to be no lack of creativity and a desire for action as characteristics of the government associated with people who, for various reasons, need assistance from the employment and welfare services. Freedom ‘without interference by politicians and bureaucrats’ clearly does not apply to them. The Nav reform was adopted to make everyday life easier for people. The qualification programme with increased social benefits as a reward for activity and qualification, where long-term social assistance was the option, would appear to be well in line with the requirements of the new government platform for the activity of social welfare beneficiaries. But here the Progress Party has been against it all along, so there can be a long way between life and learning. The Nav reform has received a lot of criticism. Some of it's probably justified, but a lot of numbers actually point in the right direction. As Dag Terje Andersen was involved in his first post, there is less social assistance, and the proportion of young people in social assistance has fallen. There have been fewer redundancy payments, redundancies and sick leave since the first IA agreement came, fewer transitional payments and fewer redundancies. We know that there is a lot of good social work done by the many employees in Nav's first line. However, there can be no doubt that there is still a need for systematic and structural improvements in Nav. There are still too many people who go for a long time without follow-up, and waiting for action can, in the worst case, destroy people's ability to get a job or new skills. Further development of Nav is therefore one of the most important tasks of a Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. I would believe that a continuous work on improvements in the first line is one of the things that makes sense to the concept of red tape, and our recommendation is therefore that the work of the Stoltenberg government on this is continued. In the past, state councils have had many outcomes and strong opinions about Nav both here in Stortinget and in the media. One magic form has been to turn social assistance into a state scheme and settle the distinction between Nav state and Nav municipality. He has, among other things, compared today's Nav structure to having 429 wives and the same number of mothers-in-law – a demanding partnership, as he said, with a lot of chaos and mess. According to his previous statement, Nav does not work today either. But the government platform says that social assistance should continue as a municipal discretion-based scheme. How does it coincide with the desire of the Council of State to have one mother-in-law? For our part, we have seen with concern that Project 1 of the major ICT initiative was closed from 25 October. This should be the basis both for the implementation of the 2015 UN reform and for more user-friendly solutions for all relevant performance areas. That is why we have asked the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs in letters and written questions about how this will affect the development of the services in Nav. We think it was a little helpful when the Council of State replied that the organisational unit ICT-MOD, which is probably in the process of modernisation, was closed because the tasks were added to the line, and that this would not affect the provision of services in Nav. It was actually the other way around – that the tasks were added to the line because the ICT project crashed? And that's something quite different. However, we have noticed that the Council of State promises to keep the Stortinges orientated, and on our side we will follow closely the further developments in Nav. In the end, I would like to say a few words about activity aids, which the Council of State was concerned about should now be as many as possible. I would then recommend that the Progress Party vote in favour of proposal No. 4 from the red-green, where we say: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a return scheme for activity aids which are no longer needed by the user and which may benefit other users.’ Then even more people can get help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1172	One of the main challenges facing a politician is to develop a good labour and social policy. There are many opinions in the main hall about how it's going to happen. At the ideological point of intersection, the balance between a welfare society and a welfare state is often how much government should govern welfare policy and how much civil society is allowed to contribute. In the right, we often use the term ‘welfare society’ because it means that we want all good forces in society to be able to contribute — from voluntary teams and associations to private businesses that provide good welfare services. The objective must be that the welfare state organises, but not necessarily carry out all welfare tasks itself. They often hear in the main hall from the opposition that they give more money to those who have at least before. But not all challenges are solved by giving more money. The government has set itself the goal of doing something about child poverty and follow it up with financial appropriations. But combating poverty is not just about economics. It's also about getting into a social community and building social relationships. Historical experience is that children’s living conditions change when adults get better. This is why it is so important to look at labour and social policies in a context. That's why the government's line of work is so important because it's lifting people out of poverty. It is challenging to stand outside the ordinary working life for at least two reasons. You don't have a safe income, which means you can't get a loan or get a living. But it's also challenging that you're not a participant in a community. It should not be underestimated that being at work increases the quality of life, but also improves health. Many young people are out of work or leave school before they have completed their education. This is serious for individuals, but also for society. For the individual, it is serious because you do not get started properly in the workplace. For society, it is serious because our demographic challenges require that as much work as possible be done. There are many ways to get more young people to work or to complete high school. Most people are concerned about caring, but also about giving young people responsibility. Although Norwegian working life is largely characterised by neat and orderly conditions, some industries are characterised by social dumping and poor pay and working conditions. This is unacceptable, both for the workers affected and for competing companies that comply with the law. The Government will therefore continue its efforts to combat social dumping. In some areas, however, there is a need for a more flexible working life in which working hours can be adapted to the needs and wishes of employees and jobs. In addition, the government will lower the employment threshold for those who are outside today. To achieve this, a work environment law is needed that is adapted to the time we live in. The fact that the government wants a more flexible working life does not mean that we want a release or a rapprochement of the Working Environment Act. We are getting older in Norway, and we know that more people need follow-up. At the same time, it is important not to set signs of similarity between the elderly and the disease. Many older people are healthy and want to stay longer in work. We have to make that right. For many older people, participation in the labour market increases the quality of life. Successful integration is often about getting to work as quickly as possible, which allows learning, but also the practice of language. At the same time, you meet others and you can set up social networks. The alternative is often social isolation and mental problems. Good integration is a number of immigrants in work as quickly as possible. It requires cooperation between the social partners and the government, but also between each of us at the workplace. All labour and social policies are about having good public services available when each of us needs it. Therefore, we need to have well-functioning Nav offices and good deals for those who meet the wall of work, either because of drug problems or mental disorders. Therefore, it is important to have an IA agreement that is not only signed, but also has clear and effective instruments when the individual needs it. Perhaps now is the time to consider moving public services into the social arenas where people meet. And maybe you'll find a Nav office in a mall in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1195	Work provides freedom and security for the individual, work provides opportunities to plan for the future, and labour costs exceed 80 pst. of Norway's national wealth. In a period of great economic setbacks around the world, the red-green government contributed to the creation of over 350 000 new jobs — many of them in important welfare professions, even more in the private sector. In Europe there are millions without jobs, but in Norway there are never more jobs. For eight years we have been working for safe economic governance, skilled labour and large investments in research, transport and well-being. We've modernised, and we've simplified. Hence, there are several creative people who dare to start new businesses, hence Norwegian businesses are doing well, and so we have low unemployment and high employment. Our government stopped Bondevik's changes in the Work Environment Act, which would release temporary additions, and would allow business owners to impose 13 hours of working days without involving the Labour Inspectorate. We also took action to strengthen their employees' rights further. We have put in place schemes that give entitlement to full-time work, and we have taken action that gets more people into the labour market. Some of the things I am most proud of are the introduction and strengthening of the Youth Guarantee, which ensures that young people are not left without jobs, education or labour market measures. This one has the right in government removed before, it's interesting to see if they're going to do it again. Then we have three action plans against social dumping. Polacks, Lithuanians and other EU citizens benefit greatly in Norwegian working life. But unprofessional employers will not be allowed to exploit workers through inappropriate conditions and lusaloons. The Labour Party can never accept that. These efforts have improved employment. No other government in Europe has pursued an equally offensive labour market policy. That's what the Right calls the immature. We have heard it before – already in 1892 they believed that stronger protection under the first workers' protection law was immature. 27 years later, Right voiced against eight hours of work. In 2005, we stopped the Bondevik government from weakening its work environment laws. Now they're telling them to modernise their working life through old tools. Government council Solvency Horne tried in the finance debate to humiliate this government for the renunciation government. I think the Council of State has misunderstood what retro means. In the same way that the red, flowered 1970s sofa on my furniture never becomes modern again, there is no 'in' with temporary additions, more overtime, heavy job protection and less paperwork. The government’s budget line boasts the creation of 1 000 new action places for people with reduced working capacity. But the truth is, the government is actually cutting 100 million. This is due to a reduction in the number of job vacancies by 2000. At the same time, the government draws more people into work and explains why they want to make changes and strengthen the re-routing work. Both the NHO and the user organisations react strongly to this. All of this causes a warning to increase the rate of unemployment and more bankruptcy. The crown of the work is that a string into the permitting code, with it risking workers being laid off instead of being permitted. I'm afraid this is just the beginning. At the time of the financial crisis in Norway, we met her with strong measures. It turned out to work well. In Sweden, they chose the solution The Progress Party and the Right will now have in Norway. With the crisis as an excuse, the right-wing government in Sweden has cut the tax to the rich, the social welfare systems for unemployed, privatised schools and privatised care – taken from those who have little to give to those who have much. In our neighboring country, young people lie awake and wonder if life has more to do with them, before they realize that they have to go to Norway to get a job. In Norway, we do not need a blue copy of the faulty labour policy of the Moderates in Sweden. The Right Party and the Progress Party are talking about a stronger social security network, but the government platform and the budget are telling us something else – they will run the same policy that has given people in Sweden poorer welfare services and less access to social rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1227	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1230	There are increasing numbers of children in Norway growing up in families with income below the poverty line. In my home country, it's about 3,300 children. For these children, poverty is primarily about not being able to participate in activities on the same lines as those they are in class with. It's about not being able to play football because the equipment is getting too expensive. It's about not being able to play the trumpet in the school corps because the economy doesn't stretch. Politics is there to help those who fall outside, and too many children tell about a growth where they feel that they are outside and where they are dismayed in everyday life. That's why I'm glad we've got a government and a huge majority that's taking the challenge seriously. I am pleased that we have received a government that does not believe that poverty disappears with simple solutions, but sees that there are difficult issues to solve in the long term. It is also possible to do something in the short term, through a better social profile of SFO and kindergarten payments, and to strengthen the voluntary offerings that are so important, among other things. The Blue Cross’s Children’s Station. But one of the solutions in the long term is to create a good school that gives children the opportunity to shape their own future. In West Agder we have set an ambitious target of 77 pst. by the students, they shall complete and pass by 2015. The government will go even further and will gradually increase the target to 90 pst. This is ambitious, but I think we can do it because we have a government that will have a professional career and – not least – a great deal of effort on the teachers. There is little doubt that the teacher is the most important step in raising Norwegian school and contributing to social mobility. Good, committed and motivated teachers lift the students and can motivate them to complete. That is why it is good that the government announces a great commitment to teachers, and therefore it is good that they warn of an escalation of continuing training. That way, we're strengthening what we know is that raising the teacher is a lifting of the school. There are also people in Norway who are outside important social arenas due to poor economic conditions or poor living conditions. Especially serious is it for the thousands of children who start life on the outside. It's a difficult challenge, but there's something we can do about it. It says that if you give a man a fish, he has food for a day, but if you teach him how to fish, he has food for life. If we are to solve the poverty-related challenges in the long term, we must help people to help themselves. It starts with a big bet at school, with the goal of getting students to finish.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1251	Disease safety is one of several characteristics of the Norwegian welfare model. And for all those who have income-intensive work, sickness that gives you absence from work will result in a loss of income. That's why we have the sick pay system. Recipients receive 100 pst. wages and salaries from the first day of sickness and, in the budget we are now to adopt, there is an estimate of a cost of the state budget of 33.77 billion. kr. For maritime operators there are 65 pst. income coverage from the sixteenth day of disease. It is estimated to have an expenditure item of SEK 1.69 billion. kr. This is the fact that employees have 100 pst. cover from the first day, while sea-going trader has 65 pst. coverage from the sixteenth day of illness, I would say is one of the best kept secrets considering how there are different benefits for different groups. It's important to get this question up in the light, so that we can get a discussion of whether that's how we want it to go forward. This large difference strongly contributes to an increasing proportion of the industrial activity in Norway being operated by employees. In a number of industries it is both right and sensible to be a seafarer. Similarly, at the start of business, the form of the company is most relevant to many. The current treatment of seafarers and workers in the event of a disease helps to reduce the choice of the type of company best suited to the individual's activities, namely maritime operators, and to change it in the opinion of the Centre Party. Social security, including day-to-day benefits, is financed by the State by the employee, i.e. an employee or a seafarer, paying social security contributions at different rates and by the employer paying employers' contributions. In addition to this funding, the large amount of the State budget is allocated from other sources of income to finance, inter alia. the safety of disease. It is against this background that the Central Party has tabled proposal No. 5, where we ‘the government is asking for various proposals to improve the sickness pay scheme for self-employed workers and their financing through both increased social security contributions and government budget appropriations.’ [[...]] [[deficiency rate and qualifying days]] This is an important question to debate; it is an important question to raise. The centre party is not in favour of equal arrangements for seafarers and employees, but it is essential that we get a discussion about it here – is that the way we are going to have it in the future? It is therefore interesting that several parties should be involved in supporting such a discussion, so that we could get it out and thus get a clarification. There's been too much time without change at that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1271	After hearing the representative Rotevatn talk in a little different context, I have understood that he must be new in love, and that it is the so-called reference path in the perspective message he has put his love on. But just as with other fresh infatuations, it's easy to overlook the weak sides of one's outward appearance – those that are obvious to others. The Perspective Communication provides a picture of the financing needs in the future, in a business as usual scenario. It causes some, including Rotevatern, to conclude that we need to save through cuts in public benefits. But the perspective message doesn't make it clear that we don't want to afford a good welfare in the future, it gives us a basis for discussing road choices. Sustainability can be ensured in several ways – through higher productivity in the public sector, efficiency growth, increased labour input, devices in the pension system, we can facilitate a slightly higher tax effort, or we can cut benefits and reduce our common level of well-being. Many right-wing politicians choose only the latest medicine. But in the next decades, the Norwegian economy will grow. Norway is getting richer. The way we distribute that growth is a political question. The perspective report also states that private consumption growth in Norway will increase by 66 pst. towards 2060, and the public with 34 pst. In other words, private wealth should increase much faster than the public register. Such a gap between private wealth and public services will weaken the social contract on which the welfare state is built. The fundamental question for everyone who is concerned about the sustainability and future of the welfare state is this: are we going to be willing to spend an equal share of the country's total resources on equal well-being in 2060 as we do today? Some parties are not willing to do that. According to them, the benefits should be cut or reformed, while claiming that tax cuts are also a proper prescription. Their premise then seems to be this: we're not going to afford to pay for well-being together, we're just going to afford to pay for it each for us. That's a premise we're not willing to accept. When someone says that the welfare state is too generous and needs to be tightened up, it's not a fasit, it's a choice. Love makes blind. Some might claim that Rotevatn’s declaration of love for the reference track is a humiliating embrace. I don't want to go that far – I just disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1284	The representative Wenstøb from the Right finally talked a little bit about social dumping. At least it was said that the government should continue to work towards social dumping. What does that mean? Does this mean that they have taken the opposition’s call not to reverse the measures they have announced to reverse? Does this mean that they are not to evaluate the measures introduced – or are they to do so? How long will the evaluation work take and when can the Storting expect a plan of action against social dumping from the government? The Labour Party, as I said, promoted proposals in the UK as late as June, we put forward proposals in the election campaign, we put forward proposals in this budget, and we, together with the trade movement, will continue to promote proposals for new measures against the greatest challenge of working life. So then we can take on the role of providing the government with new ideas and better solutions to social dumping, which they are invited to support. The representative Heggelund called the debate on the Norwegian model of a caricered parody. It's, with respect to reporting, historyless. The Norwegian model consists of different pillars that together carry our society: tripartite cooperation, small differences, social cohesion, equality, strong trade union movement. You cannot attack individual parts or pick from each other small parts of the Norwegian model and claim that it will survive and that the results will be preserved. I register the credit for the trade union movement. That's good, and I hope Heggelund's posts represent a change of pace. Six months ago, when we were in this room debating measures against social dumping, regional protection agencies were characterised by privatisation of supervision. If Heggelund, the Right and the Government believe that the trade union movement deserves praise, they should have the trade union movement and the trusted people work with the tools that the Red-Green Government gave them: access rights, legal rights and protection ombudsmen roles. Let them get jobs, put the reversal on the shelf, work with the trade union movement against social dumping. ‘The proof of the pudding is in the eating’ – we'll see. But I hope the representative Heggelund will follow up his view of the trade movement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1297	In the course of the debate now we have heard a beautiful painting from several red-green politicians that everything is happy and fun and perfect in the field of work and social affairs. I agree that very much is good, but nevertheless there are still significant challenges. We have approx. 650 000 people in employment who are out of work. That number has actually increased by 230,000 in the last 20 years. We see that the 2009–2010 Labour Force Survey of Nav shows that every 10 disabled people want to return to work. We know that we have 78 000 people with disabilities who want to get back to work. Then I think it's a little special to hear the debate when the new government is now launching more measures to get a lot of these back to work, making it easier for more of these groups and people to get back to work. Then it's especially that you meet with criticism, and you don't come up with a single solution to how to solve this challenge that society depends on solving. As we have talked about earlier, the action areas for disabled people will be a loving help to the 78 000 people with disabilities who want to return to work, but the increase we're putting up with today's red-green politicians choose to vote against. Wages and salaries subsidies to increase the number of people employed are chosen to go against. The debate is also about temporary employment. Then it is interesting to see what the Assistant Secretary General of the Joint Organisation of Disability said in his time, when they discussed the training scheme. He said the following: ‘Training arrangements allow disabled persons to enter and get tested. So they get the chance to show up. This is something we know that works as a door opener to work." That's exactly what the new government is now ready to do, that we want to make working life more flexible for all those groups, for the 650 000 that are currently out of work. I look forward to what measures today's opposition is coming to address this challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1315	With the address of the previous speaker: My first post was at least no beauty painting; it could perhaps rather be perceived as relatively critical. It was intended, to improve the service offer in Nav is about taking people seriously and giving people a chance. But really I'm a pretty optimistic person and a declared adherent to the Nav reform, so I really want to end up with a little more positive twist, and that in the form of a comment on the look-up with the Nav director in Dagbladet last week. Firstly, it is good that the media puts the spotlight on people's experiences of their meetings with the Nav offices. Secondly, what might be even better is that the Nav director reacts to the statements in a way that is an example of follow-up. Instead of going into a defensive position, he chooses to use people's own stories as a starting point for learning and improvement. It's great, and it's red tape. Good service is good for those who need Nav's assistance in difficult situations in life, but good service also makes the working day meaningful for those who work in the first line and meet users every day. The Nav Director says that he is committed to better training in being a supervisor, enhanced training for new employees, focus on ethics and good attitudes, improved complaint management procedures and making it clear that quality in services is a management responsibility. In addition, the newspaper’s headline contains not only negative user experiences, but also the good stories of people who experience good care. It's good for employees that the positive stories also come out. It certainly feels like a tracker for further efforts. We, who adopted the Nav reform in its time, also have a responsibility for the proper functioning of the reform. There is still a need for improvements in the systematic and structural area of Nav, and there are still too many who go for a long time without being followed up and waiting for action – as I was in my first post, that the procedure still takes too long. The very thing with effective treatment is also a way of showing respect and taking people seriously. Waiting for a long time for answers can be devastating for people's chances of returning to work or gaining new skills, which I emphasized earlier. But to achieve good results, we need leaders who are safe and development-oriented. I think the Nav Director in this way seems to be on the right track, and therefore I wanted to take advantage of my last post to wish him good luck. We're probably going to discuss developments in Nav many times during this period, and I hope that we can still see a positive development.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1328	The representative Henriksen was up and talking about that I apparently was new in love after reading the perspective message. When I'm in love, I usually get warm for the heart. When I read the perspective message, it goes a little cold down my back. It's not like you can read there, it's something new either. The warnings that come about a sub-funded welfare state and some unresponsive schemes are also read in ever-increasing reports from the OECD, from the International Monetary Fund and from the Statistical Central Bureau, but it is good that one has also received it in a document from the Red-Green Government. So, Henriksen talks about the business as usual scenario. One of the biggest problems with the perspective message is not that we interpret it too pessimisticly, that's that part of the estimate is too optimistic. It is based, for example, on: a future return on the oil fund of 4 pst. It's totally unrealistic. One assumes that we will continue to work as much as we do today. Unfortunately, it may also be unrealistic – at least we have been working less and less for the last 40 years. One also assumes that the level of well-being should be the same as today. At least it's unrealistic. There will still be demands for improved quality. That's why there's good reason to be obs. But it's not that the only solution, the only one that needs to be done, is to change welfare arrangements. There is only one part of the image. One is also required to make sure that people work more, not less. We do this through the pension system, through the work environment law and through many other proposals that have been mentioned earlier here, both from me and from representatives from other parties. And then it's probably true that one is forced to look at the tax system afterwards. I interpret the representative Henriksen so that it's the only thing he wants to see, that he wants to attract more private well-being, that is, increase taxes. In that case, there are new tones from the Working Party, but it's an interesting discussion to take. Finally, when I first stand here, I would like to give some praise to the representative Lundteg, as I was a little bit critical of you today, when he talks about the great discrimination between self-employed people and added in terms of sick pay. But it's probably not like Lundtigen says, that this is our best-kept secret. At least there is no secret to those who have read what the Left has proposed in the Storting in recent years, or what we are proposing this year. Instead of simply asking for a settlement, as the Center Party does, they could consider voting for the Left Alternative State Budget. If they did, from 1 January we would make sure that self-employed people go from 65 pst. to 80 pst. in the case of sickness benefits. It makes sense, it makes it easier to start a business, and it ensures a greater level of non-discrimination, as I feel Lundtigen is busy with. So here I actually think we're not dealing with a secret, but with a challenge we're some about. I hope that the government will be able to take over, and that the Left Party and the Center Party will be able to give them good support from the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1340	I feel that this has been a very good and interesting debate. It started with the representative Dag Terje Andersen saying that as part of being a constructive opposition, one should not only measure the government's results in money use, but actually also results. I must say that I think it is nice, but I feel it as a new tact from the Workers' Party. There are probably few parties in this country who are so concerned with measuring results only in appropriations for the state budget as the Workers' Party is – we also heard that in the election campaign. But I think it's very nice with this change of pace from the Workers' Party, and I think it's a loving and good contribution to creating a better word change in the political debate in Norway. Then the representative says that what I said about the trade movement is a shift from the Right. But it's not. It's just that what I said about the trade movement does not fit into the picture that the Workers' Party wants to create from the Right. I have had meetings with the trade union movement since I entered the Stortinget – I think it is an important part of sitting in the Labour and Social Committee and meeting representatives from various trade unions. Those meetings have been just as I expected them to be – nice, constructive and educational, and it's a tone I think it's right to have with the trade movement. It's Right's vision, and it's nothing new. Social dumping: Of course, the fight against social dumping is important for the government. In a modern, civilised country, Norway should also be lacking. I believe that one of the most important things you can do is to continue to strengthen the Labour Inspectorate. Then we want to evaluate the measures taken against social dumping, and I can't understand with my best ability how it can be negative that you look at how actions are actually working. I just think that would make sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1349	What the representative Heggelund said in his last post, but in particular in his first post, can only be seen on a single background, and it is the consistent attempts of the right parties to misunderstand their own history in the distance and in the vicinity. If it is the case that Heggelund's verbal expression should be taken seriously, he and the party he represents have a very significant problem in this Chamber, namely that they have consistently historically and in recent years voted against all the measures that can meet Heggelund's verbal expression. But it only has to be seen in the light of the consistent attempt to whitewash the policies they actually stand for. In fact, an attempt to say that there are no contradictions in society is something that obviously falls on its own unfairness and that has no evidence in reality. The reality is that the well-being society that has been created is created because society has become strong and politics has governed society – contrary to what the right parties have stood for. That's what's real. When Norwegian workers have got it the way they have got it today, it is because of the trade union movement and social democratic thinking about what should be their place. Heggelund is obviously a political intellectual, so he can read this completely systematically and see what's been the story. When he says that we've now left that line and gone over to a completely different line, it's right that other representatives have said here, that then he has to be taken seriously. But that's not what's practice. The party he represents, and the council we now have, has stood and said here in this room by many crossroads – and I have been here time and time again in late evening hours and heard, among other things. that point — that it is not so important that there is a difference between people in society. This is the reality of the political situation, and this is what has been revealed by Heggelund's articles. The last thing he said was, for example, that the Labour Inspectorate is to deal with the situation. Yes, it is good with the Labour Inspectorate, it has been built up by us for decades. However, the Labour Inspectorate shall not replace the authority of the trade union movement. What is the historical line in the Right Relationship to the trade union movement is that one consistently tries to weaken their political position in society. That's what Heggelund's legacy is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1364	In order to respond to some of the rounds of social dumping, the Committee has agreed on quite a number of good comments during the enlargement period that has just begun. I think we're going to have common policy solutions to many of the challenges of social dumping. It has been in the form of a note for the Right, Advance Party and Left. We're also positive to take a discussion about the concrete recordings that might have to be made. I remind you that social dumping is not a concept that was introduced after the government change. There has been a very high level of presence after eight years of red-green governance both in state enterprises and in private enterprises. I think the whole committee will spend a lot of time in the future finding common solutions, for the benefit of the labour market. Then Lundtigen has an invitation. I record that the Centre Party is pleased in a number of cases not to sit in government with the Workers' Party and SV. He actually comes with a small extended hand in the case of the self-employed. There have been eight years of silence from the Central Party about it in decisions and debates in the Storting, while now you have the opportunity to think for yourself, as Lundtigen does when we promote this. I believe that a large majority of people, consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and with the Left Party, are more positive to those who create their own job, and then we will also be helping to improve their framework conditions in the process of enlargement. When we're in the last round of the budget debate, I feel like you're not just going to criticize each other. I would also like to congratulate the many people who work in Nav, the many who work in the departments and in the reintroduction companies, who contribute to putting the decisions and objectives of this assembly into practice, together with the government. I would also like to extend a great deal of thanks to those who go to work every day to help other people get a life easier. It's also those who actually have a responsibility to do what we decide.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1375	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had two previous posts and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1378	The representative Anette Trettebergstien took on social dumping, and it has the full support of the Centre Party to counter it. It is important to address the disadvantages of safest labour immigration, and social dumping is at the heart of this. The Labour Inspectorate will strengthen us in the Centre Party, and we will also strengthen the regional protection ombudsmen. It's important to increase there, and we're increasing by 3 million. NOK 10,6 million. NOK 13.6 million. kr. There's a clear prioritization of the Anette Trettebergstien now talked about. Erlend Wiborg from the Promskrittspartiet said that the red-green do the beauty painting. That's not true. We have clear observations on these matters. However, the reason I took the floor now is because Erlend Wiborg said we need a more flexible labour market. Who's gonna have it? To whom does this apply? Is it doctors, is it nurses, is it policemen who need a more flexible connection to their workplaces? Or are there cleaners, truck drivers and production workers at Bamas plant on Lierstranda? I'm counting on it to be the last advance party to talk about. I want to be clear about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1389	A few days after the election and a day or two after the government platform was presented, the leader of the LO, together with his friends in the Labour Party, expressed great concern that the country had been given a new government. It would be a tougher everyday life, it would be a frenzy of well-being as we know it, there would be increased differences, and there would be a change of direction in Norwegian policy – there would be a new policy. It should not surprise anyone that a new majority in the Grand Duchy will pursue a new policy. It was supposed to be missing, too. But it won't be in the direction that the LO leader predicted. It is a good budget both for work and for the social part that will be adopted today. It's a fact that you don't get to do everything you want to do the first quarter you sit in government, but there are clear direction changes already in the budget for next year. The main message to the Progress Party when we went to the elections this year was ‘Simplified everyday life for the most people’. Then it's nice to see, for example. weak-minded Elsa, who now enjoys being able to get help again, and that disabled people will again be covered by expenditure on important aids. Yes, it's a change of direction in Norwegian policy, it's a new policy, and that's good policy. The same can be said of funds for substitute dogs, or the increase in the framework of more than a doubling of activity aids for people with disabilities over 26 years of age — to mention something. Yesterday we had a debate on the tax package for next year. Many red-green politicians expressed great concern about increasing inequality in particular in terms of power and economy. But the problem is not about poor and prosperous both being lifted. It's not like the poor measure how poor or rich you are as a distance from the richest of the country. They measure their wealth and their everyday lives against how far it is up until they are out of poverty. A leading star on the road for many is how far away they are from working life. I hope and believe that more people will be closer, and that more people have taken part in the work when we are here again next year. It must be the aim of the policy, it must be the aim of us politicians, and that is the objective of this budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1400	I drew myself against what I thought was the end of the debate, to sum up some of what we've been into, but first to the Council of State, which I hope can demand, among other things. The representative, Ropstad, has said here. He said that the proportion of the poor has increased. I assume that the Council of State, which has a completely different responsibility for not misinforming the Storting – it can actually be quite serious – can confirm that that information is wrong, and that the fact is that the proportion of the poor has fallen below the previous government. It's a fact. So it was well intended and has been positively commented on by the Council of State what I said about measuring results instead of money. In this context, I choose to ignore the alleged interpretation of what some other representatives have chosen, but I would like to emphasise the point that I believe that it is a weakness if the opposition does not have any other contribution than to propose larger appropriations. That's what was the starting point for what I meant, and we're going to stand by that. We are going to be an active opposition that will make constructive proposals to find better solutions, including: relative to Nav, which I used as an example. So finally, a worthy theme traveled by Lundtägen, by Trettebergstuen and by others. It concerns social dumping. We have labour immigration to Norway, and that is positive. That is why we have a common responsibility to ensure that that labour immigration does not compete seriously with Norwegian work, but contributes within a serious Norwegian working life. One of the means of achieving this is social dumping. There we have introduced transparency. The Party of Advancement and the Right voted against. The same is true of public relations, which I think is being accepted further, according to the Sundvolden platform. The same applies to joint and several liability, which is an important instrument, collective redress law, equal opportunities shifts and turns and regional protection agencies. There are a number of measures we have put in place to help support the serious Norwegian labour force in competition against the labour immigration we have and to have. Those measures are important. It is therefore the case that the Council of State, Eriksson, as the representative of the great crowd, voted against these proposals. But I want, on the basis of the positive feedback we got to have also constructive dialogue between opposition and position, to invite Eriksson State Council to confirm that these instruments are continuing, and that our common challenge in the future will be to find new measures to counter social dumping, because those in these industries are constantly finding new ways. I invite the Council of State to this in the last debate before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1411	The representative Lise Christoffersen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1414	Also, I would like to add a comment to the last article of Arve Kambe. He stressed that there are good common comments on social dumping. If he followed up on what Dag Terje Andersen just listed good actions, then one sees that it is possible to expand our common list to include several measures that the Right and Advance Party have previously voted against. No, it wasn't that social dumping brought about a new government. That is why we started the action plans against social dumping. It was, in fact, Per Rune Henriksen, who took the initiative for the first action plan. Then came number two, and then came number three. If citizens want to participate in enhanced cooperation, then there is a good proposal in this case, proposal No. 1, with a maximum of three terms in a contract chain. One can start there – there are only a few minutes left – by voting for that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1423	First, briefly, to the debate on social dumping. There are a number of new measures that should be put on the table quickly, because the situation in the labour market is quite serious and it escalates. It's not that social dumping came with a new government, it didn't even come with the Poles. Social dumping has taken place in the labour market at all times, but it is increasing as migration increases, as exploitation increases, and unfair competition for the serious enterprises increases. We have to stop that, and then there have to be more measures than we have today. So to the discussion of poverty and differences. Poverty is measured today at differences. So when you make the richest much richer, many more, at least statistically, become poorer. I understand that more people from the government parties don't get it, but that's the way it is. I have also heard again these myths about pen strokes etc. I ask those who now make these arguments, to be so kind as to document how former party leader Kristin Halvorsen has said it. Because there are representatives from the Right who have added this to Kristin Halvorsen, but it has been completely impossible to get rid of it, because you keep repeating it. However, it is a very important task, and I have not praised any government for having been good enough to fight poverty, nor child poverty. I am glad that in this budget there will not be the great cut off of the lonely caregivers, who are the families with two and a half times the risk of some families, to end up in permanent poverty for generations. But you haven't been able to push yourself to cut off the increase that we posted there, so that that change in taxation wouldn't lead to loss for anyone. It's not a good thing, and it's a loss for many of the poorest families — families with children. Then there will be more poor children, and not fewer. Now I've seen a lot of spins from the Progress Party here, so I hope that they, and also the Right, have scrambled the proposal to remove the transitional aid. I also hope that they scrape the desire to remove the child supplement in the disability. So these are families that don't have the chance to work anymore, which are going to be in a permanent situation over many years, and where the kids are going to live in a permanent situation in families with very low incomes. Because only those with the lowest performance get the child supplement. There's over 30,000 a year, and I don't think anyone sitting in this room is able to imagine how much money is 30,000 when you have the minimum benefit in your disability. There's a lot of money, especially when you're caring for children. So to the poverty target itself. I want us to develop a new poverty target, because what is happening is that when, for example, you are. provides for a tax on property, property tax or inheritance tax, there will be more zero tax payers, but in the statistics they may also be poor when they have no income to tax, and I think that is a completely wrong way of counting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1438	Let me first thank Karin Andersen for a good post. If you might look away from some rhetoric, I totally agree with everything she says. And the last thing, a poverty target of its own that goes more to measure real poverty, is very interesting. It was to poverty that I took the floor, because when the representative Dag Terje Andersen says that I have said wrong, I must at least correct it, if I have done so. What I have at least meant, and which was my point, if it was the exchange of lines with the representative Trettebergstuen, was that I agreed that the differences had fallen, but that the number of poor children had unfortunately risen. But here you also talk about different ways of calculating poverty. My point was that there were over 100,000 children who unfortunately grew up in low-income families. When I first stand here, I need to make a little explanation of vote, because during the day we have discussed a little. As regards part of the proposal No: 1-4, we feel that there are good committee remarks, especially those on economic crime and social dumping, and we are clear from the Christian People's Party in following up on it, and I expect the Council of State to do that. As regards proposal No: 5, from the Central Party, what I had in the past is a policy shared by the Christian People's Party. I recommend that the Christian People's Party group vote for this proposal to improve the health pay scheme for self-employed workers. It is therefore a matter of proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The other proposals are probably a real political disagreement, including with regard to the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1448	Let me first start with the question from the representative Andersen. It is absolutely right that if you take the OECD's median income, the proportion of poor children has fallen. As a result, the question has been cleared and should be clear. Then I would like to comment on some of the things that have been said in the debate. Let me start with the debate on social dumping. It is clear from the government's platform that the fight against social dumping will continue. I would say this in the following way: this is not about how many different plans and measures you propose, and about being as creative as possible and finding the best possible way, but it is about taking the best steps to achieve the best results to maintain a decent working life in Norway, which we all want. I've been so lucky that for the first time as a state councillor, I got the LO leader out on my way, and we had a good and pleasant passion down along Akerselva. What we discussed was – and I thought so too – what is on the government platform: it will always be natural to go through the actions that have been promoted, to look at the impact of the various measures and how to do things even better. What we agreed very much on both was the importance of looking at which industries are the biggest. I want to say that I'm worried when I see the signals coming from Ecocrime, that a greater share of the profit crime is now being shifted to work crime. There is something we should take seriously, not least when we look at the challenges of the outdoor and transport sectors. That is why the government, as I said earlier, wants to set up good industry programmes in those areas. I perceive that the employee side also very much agrees that you start in those sectors. Then I would like to end by saying in terms of what Andersen, the representative, said here – that the government is going in to remove the transitional aid and remove the child supplement: there's no place in the government platform to remove it, but we're going to review the arrangements. Then we will report back to the Storting properly when such a review is done, and then the Storting will make decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1461	The representative Anette Trettebergstien has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1464	If the Council of State believes what he is saying here, that the government will look for accurate, proper measures against social dumping, the Council of State and members of the Government parties have, through an hour-long debate today, had the opportunity to say that they will be at peace with the measures such as Fafo, through evaluation, and the trade union movement, refer to – evidence of results – those who work best, those who have stagnated development, those who work. It doesn't matter to the government councils or representatives of the government parties today, but they've had the chance. Instead, it is pointed to the Labour Inspectorate. A strengthening of supervision is good, but supervision can only be a supplement to the job that thousands of trustees and trade unions do every day. Should the supervision take care of that work, the supervision had to be between 50,000 and 60,000 employees. So the government recognizes the supervision, but they don't recognize the job done by the trade union movement. Then the rose from this pulpit will be quite empty.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1471	I have not said that the government parties are now removing the transitional aid. I have said that they have done so in every budget in the last four years. What they're removing now is an increase of up to 2.36 G for the transitional benefit and has lowered it to 2.25 G. That means that some of these families are losing several thousand dollars on the conversion to taxable income made in this budget. That is the reality of it. I also said in my post that I'm happy if you now scrape these ideas that you've had here all these years, and fund your taxes with. Because it's worth over 1 billion. kr – which has disappeared from the poorest children's families in each budget in the last few years, from the Right, from the Progress Party. If they're going to stop it, I'm glad, because there's one of the stupidest things you can do. This is income that families need. They have children. They qualify for work, the benefit works, and they come out of poverty. So please hold on to the fact that this benefit is going to be there. It seems good. If the Council of State is to succeed in its work of reducing poverty, he can not only talk about work, he must also talk about benefits. The benefits must be such that it is possible to live on them. Then I recommend Nav's own 2012 poverty fund report, where they clearly describe that if you have too little money to live off, you get sicker and more out of work, and the opportunity to get into work is reduced. It is important to keep it in mind when it comes to social policy. There are several health surveillance reports that have gone through the practice of the Law on Social Services in Nav. It's quite a hairy reading, and the headline of those reports is: the municipalities are breaking the law – and it's against the most disadvantaged in this country, who don't even have the right to free legal aid in order to be able to raise their case when they don't get money. There's not one trial for any of this, and it's the most difficult in the country. It tells me at least that here it's a trial, and it's an economic loss for some of the most disadvantaged. So there won't be any more people working because we're driving and kneeling people who have it so hard. It is very important to think about two things at once — both that you need enough money and that you have to have the right measures. Many more people can get to work if we do this the right way, so you don't stay awake every night because you don't know how to meet the ends. I'm recording that the government parties now, when it comes to social dumping, are not able to say anything about what they really mean. But what they've done is to warn them that they're going to grant tax exemptions so that people don't commit criminal acts, namely, act black. I react to that – that they are able to say something about it. That measure is not going to work well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1486	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1500	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1506	Let's go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1514	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, from Dag Terje Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 5, by Per Olaf Lundtägen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 6-8, from Sveinung Rotevatern on behalf of Left There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Six to eight from the left. Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to change the minimum working time reduction in the daily allowance regulation § 6-8 to keep the daily allowance from 50 pst. until 20 pst.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to adapt the rolling permit regulation so that the company, where there is a deal between employees and employers, only pays the employer’s period for the number of settings actually permitted.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a change in the employer’s co-financing of the sick pay scheme in the context of the revised national budget for 2014. An assumption for the changes shall be that the aggregate economic weight of the employers does not increase.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1553	There is a vote on proposal No. Five from the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for various proposals to improve the health pay system for self-employed workers and their financing through both increased social security contributions and government budget appropriations.’ [[deficiency rate and qualifying days]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e1570	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to amend the public procurement rules so that there can be no more than three stages in the contract chain for suppliers awarded public tenders.’ [[Law on public acquisitions and related regulations]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make further proposals to counteract the scope of avoidance of Norwegian pay and working conditions in individual industries.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken to ensure increased interaction and coordination between various public agencies in order to detect more tax and social security crime.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a return scheme for activity aids which are no longer needed by the user and which may benefit other users.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e4729	The President assumes that the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party shall vote against the vote. The Christian People's Party has announced that they support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-06.ana.ud1201e4770	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
