ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e32	The representative Anders B. Werp, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. The former temporary deputy representative of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Bård Langsavåld, has once again taken up his seat. The requested alternate of Oslo, Ola Elvestuen, has taken the seat. From the Group of the Progressive Alliance, there is an application for the leave of the representative Karin S. Woldseth from 15 January to 17 January to hold meetings on observation of the elections of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in Armenia. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Torkil Åmland, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It is also considered to be adopted. Torkil Åmland is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e78	Norway has a moral responsibility to promote freedom, social responsibility, democracy, environmental protection and human rights. There is a close link between democracy and respect for human rights. You don't get one without the other. Not only is democracy and respect for human rights important in itself. It also provides a good basis for societies where personal initiatives can generate growth and progress. Let me also make it clear that education for all is a prerequisite for real participation and democracy. A central development is that both the number of democracies and the proportion of the population of democracies is increasing. According to Freedom House, three-quarters of all countries are free or partially free. The number of democracies has doubled in the last 30 years. It's very joyful. All countries, including poor countries, have the primary responsibility to enforce political, civil, economic, social and cultural rights for their inhabitants. The right considers that Norwegian development policy should play a role with local policy authorities where possible, and encourage local ownership of priorities and projects funded by Norwegian funds. If aid funds override local wishes and priorities, there is a risk of weakening rather than strengthening responsibilities between the people and their representatives. Such a desire to build up under new democracies will require that we also accept decisions that we do not necessarily agree with. But developments that go across universal human rights, the Right will always respond sharply to. This also applies to countries that violate the social and economic rights of the population by discrimination or ignoring the rights of the poorest. In order to achieve democracy and good governance, greater efforts are needed to strengthen women's civil and political participation. Any country that does not grant its women equal rights to men will never become a democracy, nor exploit its full potential. The centre of women's participation is that girls and boys have equal rights and opportunities in society from the time they are born. Gender equality must be carried out in all areas of society, including the right to education, health and democratic participation. Right wants to contribute strongly with support for political institutional and process development. Support for democratisation and the realisation of human rights will not clearly follow our geographical priority. Here it is our capacity and the needs of the recipient country that are governing. The right-wing objectives of development policy are to contribute to the democratisation and realisation of human rights and to help people to work long-term out of poverty. The main objectives of the aid policy are ‘do no harm’. We have to recognise that, in some cases, traditional assistance has crossed central Norwegian objectives. Right will never accept the cross-cutting nature of development policy in these key development policy objectives. The former Prime Minister of Ethiopia, the late Meles Zenawi, visited Oslo in October 2011 to attend the Energy for All Conference. Here Zenawi received a number of good words and congratulations from both Prime Minister and Minister for Development. Outside the conference room, there was a lot of protests. To the evening post, one of the protesters, Adam Mulualem Zerikun, who himself fled from Ethiopia because he was oppositional, said the following: ‘Meles has imprisoned hundreds of opposition and journalists. He has created an impossible climate for foreign organisations to work in, because they are not allowed to talk about human rights. It is unworthy for Norway to invite a dictator here to Oslo. [[...]] Norway must act like Sweden and reduce the ties with Meles Zenawi, not strengthen those you are doing now.’ Had this been a simple example, the criticism from, among other things, Right was milder, but it's not. It's part of a pattern. The red-green government has chosen to focus on the positive aspects of Ethiopia, such as economic growth and poverty reduction, and not on the lack of democracy and repression. I think we have to be able to do both and twist our support so that under no circumstances do we participate in either supporting the regime or legitimizing it. If it is impossible, the aid to Ethiopia must cease. It goes back to the Right Principle of ‘do no harm’ and our two main objectives of development policy: sustainable out of poverty and human rights and democracy. Students are often at the heart of the struggle for democracy. I have got the following numbers and facts from SAIH: In Zimbabwe, there were over 1,000 arrests of students between 2006 and 2010, and 187 students were expelled from their schools. In Colombia, an average of two student leaders were killed per semester between 2002 and 2006, and during the same period ACEU documented 120 threats and nearly 200 cases of personal injury, raids and various forms of student abuse. In Iran, the Minister of Research said in 2009 that everyone who participated in the student protests would be denied education. The list is long. These countries are not exceptions — students fighting for human rights and democracy are systematically persecuted, threatened and expelled ashore in all parts of the world. This scares other students from engaging and helps to put a lid on what can become important popular movements. SAIH, NSO and Right believes that Norway should ensure that students who are expelled from their schooling based on their commitment to democracy and human rights can complete their education either here in Norway or in other countries. Nicaragua got 102 million. by Norway in 2011. On Norad's national pages, where assistance is explained at a macro level, it is not clear that President Ortega is willing to go very far to protect his monopoly of power, and that the civil society's condition is very narrow. Nicaragua is probably an example of the fact that the aid should either change fundamentally, or completely lapse. 24 pst. of today’s assistance to Nicaragua goes directly to the public sector. This leads to legitimation. It is directly harmful when a country does not respect fundamental rights. For a long time, Norway has used budgetary support as an instrument of aid policy. In 2010, Norway paid more than 1.3 billion. kr in this type of aid, if one includes Afghanistan. Many of the recipients have had significant problems in democracy and respect for human rights. In 2010, Norway reduced budget support to Uganda for the years 2010 and 2011 following many years of harsh criticism from the Right. The justification given was great corruption and lack of investigation and prosecution in corruption cases against senior officials. Where is the criticism of a lack of democracy and a brutal lack of human rights? Norway is still spending a lot of money, a lot of money, on Uganda — a total of 454 million. kr in 2011. Norway must not be afraid to impose requirements on the recipient country. At the same time, the conditions attached to the assistance must be removed from the self-interests of the donor countries. In particular, democratic development, good governance and anti-corruption must be required of the recipients. Right does not want to provide budget support or other direct support to public authorities in countries where developments are clearly in the wrong direction. A prerequisite for being a central beneficiary of Norwegian assistance must be clear signs of democratisation and respect for fundamental human rights. This also applies even if the recipient countries are central to achieving other important development goals. Norway has to make clear criticisms of human rights violations also against countries where it may have consequences to point out such violations, for example. for Norwegian economic interests. I am not in doubt: the red-green government is giving priority to both human rights and democracy for other good purposes. The difference to the right is significant. Our objectives for development policy are human rights, democracy and sustainable out of poverty. Policy initiated by the Right shall not be at the expense of these very central principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e129	I would like to thank you for the opportunity to discuss one of the most important issues of development policy, namely the relationship with human rights and the importance of democracy in promoting development. The very importance of democracy in promoting development is going to be central to the big message that we are going to present during the spring, which deals with precisely this: fair distribution, democracy, openness and the importance of these to create economic growth. I believe that we have and should have a human rights-based development policy. This means that development assistance should be based on and supported under human rights. Human rights-based assistance shall ensure that individuals are included and not discriminated against in terms of political participation and distribution of goods. This is about all human rights, both political and social, which are also the right to life, the right to food and the right to education and all that lies on the social side. Decisive governments and magnification have now, for a rather generation, assumed that it must be our cooperating countries that are themselves responsible for their own development, and I stress that it is our cooperating countries that are responsible for the fulfilment of human rights. It is the responsibility of the States to ensure that this happens. Our task as donors is not to take over, but to support the countries in their efforts to create a better everyday life for their people, and the challenge described by the representative Skovholt Gitmark is that many states do not take this responsibility — whether at all or not in full, for example. by excluding, in whole or in part, parts of the population from political processes or from the distribution of goods. Let me give you some examples of what the government is doing. I can start with the United Nations system, which is increasingly working for a rights-based approach to its efforts. The government has decided to contribute $8 million. The UN Foundation for the Integration of Human Rights in the Work of the World Organisation at Land Level, because we believe that it will permeate the policies of the UN organisations at all levels. It's not just useful to do it centrally; you have to do it in the countries, it's where it plays a role. Among the UN organisations, I can mention UNICEF, which works for the realization of the right to education, and in the year that we just left behind, Norway contributes 550 million. kr for this work. Education is part of fundamental rights. It is the responsibility of the countries themselves, but in particular we are trying to contribute precisely in countries where the authorities themselves do not have control, in vulnerable countries with war and conflict, or in countries where we see, for example, that. girls are not granted that right. There are many rights that are important. The ILO and the work done by the ILO are another example in which we are working to promote the interests of workers, which will also affect people in our countries of cooperation. As Peter Skovholt Gitmark is well-known, all states are subject to regular reviews by the UN Human Rights Council, and there countries receive recommendations and charges, allegations and references – call it what you want – to which they have to deal. We from Norway are very active in these processes. We use these country reviews to – together with other countries – cooperate and be in dialogue with countries on where progress should be made to strengthen the human rights situation. Since Peter Skovholt Gitmark brings out Ethiopia: The Human Rights Council was one of the places where we participated in the work just by pointing out important human rights violations in Ethiopia. A development policy based on human rights shall both enhance the ability of authorities to fulfil citizens’ rights and contribute to the ability of people to claim their rights. That is why we are making considerable efforts to follow up human rights at country level. Among other things, we support: organisations working for fundamental rights. It could be gay organisations, the work that organizations do. I just met people in organizations working for basic human rights in Malawi, where the new president, Joyce Banda, is committed to providing fundamental rights and to strengthening and expanding the framework for democracy. In meeting with the organisations there, which we have supported over a number of years, they just pointed out that the work and new leaders have led to an increased democratic space that we have helped to create through long-term cooperation with non-governmental organisations. As for the development of democracy, I would like to point out a few things that I will also come back to when we present our big message. First of all, our starting point must be that the central elements of what we associate with democracy are part of international human rights, in particular the UN Convention on Civil and Political Rights, which entered into force in 1976. It is about political participation, freedom of expression and fundamental things. Secondly, the development of democracy must essentially be understood as an internal process driven by local actors in each country. We must have a sober, realistic relationship with what we can contribute from the outside, because it is difficult to see – and I think one has few examples of – that democracy imposed from the outside is something that has worked out. On the contrary, it is long-term work by promoting important democratic institutions and supporting civil society that over time contributes to positive development. It depends on the existence of specific forces in the countries that are driving the changes forward. In countries with a weak democratic tradition, but where there are opportunities for change, there are opportunities. Myanmar may, for example: is not said to be a well-functioning democracy yet, but they show a willingness to political democracy when there is some government that supports, and the central thing for our government has been how we can support actors and processes that will contribute to the development of democracy. It is also important to stress that there we were also present and contributed to positive processes in a situation where we did not see the same positive signs of democracy development as we otherwise saw. Thirdly, the development of democracy is a complex process, and it is one of the most difficult things we can go into. It is because we agree that we cannot impose democracy from the outside. All the time when democracy is about the fundamental conditions and the fundamental distribution of power in a society, it is necessary that their own forces in the country always stand behind the changes and drive them forward. This is about measures to strengthen free media, and we do not hide what we think about our partners. We're not really champions of what we think is right. This concerns issues that are more controversial, such as women's and sexual minorities' rights. Peter Skovholt Gitmark also drew up Uganda as an example, a place where we have used considerable political capital and commitment to just working against the laws that are strict against homosexuals, such as. The death penalty for homosexuals, which in some cases we have spent a lot of time and effort working against. Fourthly, democracy is not just about the formal institutions for policy implementation and design, but about the development of a democratic political culture, so that the citizens of a country can make use of the system. We spend a lot of money – 1.8 billion. Last year – to strengthen civil society in developing countries. This represents a formidable effort, where Norwegian non-governmental organisations also make a significant contribution, and we think that they are best placed to do that job. We're adding up to a strengthening of this work this year. It has been decided by the Storting. I want to underline one thing since I was in Malawi instead. One of the things that strikes me as I have visited a number of developing countries and looked at developments over time is that the distribution of money is crucial for the allocation of political power in a society and therefore crucial to democracy. Often it's like this in a society that where someone has a lot of money, there's also a lot of political power. If you are a great mine owner in a country, you exercise considerable political power as a miner. If you're a big oil owner or run big there, you exercise considerable political power. At the same time, the disturbing trend is that many of those who have political power are also those who attack or acquire economic power. We have to work against this. That's why we're working on some of these things in several countries, for example. we have brought this forward in Uganda, and we are working for a fundamental strengthening of financial management. Having national audits in place, having financial systems that are open, giving transparency to accumulation and parliaments in these processes is an important part of both the Tax for Development-Cooperation, our work on national audits and our work on Oil for Development. In the presentation of the paper, I would like to inform you that we are going to place greater emphasis on the work of democracy in development cooperation in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e163	I am pleased that the Council of State says that the Storing Communication that is now coming to Stortinget will place increased emphasis on democracy and human rights in Norwegian development policy. It welcomes the Right and it will support the Right, for the space that human rights and democracy have had has been too large on the rhetorical level and too little on the concrete political level. Let me say that development policy is very much in place. One of the most important features of development policy must be the fight for universal human rights. This is not an à la carte list to pick from, but this is universal rights: it's democracy, it's trade, it's education, it's health and aid. These are all important elements of a development policy. When the Council of State said in its speech that there is a lot of money going and going to Norwegian civil society, because they are the best, then I would say yes, in many cases the Norwegian civil society is doing a formidable job and will still do it. But my right-wing approach is that you have to go into every project in order to find the actor who delivers the best both in terms of the objectives of the programme or project and in terms of the organisation's own efficiency. If civil society of the country of destination is equal to our civil society, the civil society of the country of destination must be chosen precisely because it has a intrinsic value to build it up. So back to education and the warm words that the council said about education, which I share, but then it's especially to see that you tickle, among other things. in the current budget for UNICEF’s appropriations, because I believe that education is needed to create real participation and thus also democracy that works. Let me ask the Council of State a concrete follow-up question. I used some of my post to talk about students who have been expelled from their universities, and about the possibility that they can come to Norway to study or study in other countries. Will the Council of State take this initiative and make it its own policy and Norwegian policy to give some students that opportunity and make sure that other countries do the same? Let me end by saying that lasting out of poverty is also a very central part of human rights. Living without poverty is part of both a functioning democracy and human rights on the other hand. It must mean that, if food development and trade are to contribute to economic growth, it must once again increase space. There is something we need to be able to use to introduce countries that are moving in the right direction in terms of both democracy and human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e176	Firstly, I think it's very gratifying now that Peter Skovholt Gitmark says that it's okay to run on and have the values that we want to focus on, in development policy, and that it's quite fine and legitimate to make the kind of demands for the countries we're going to cooperate with, whether it's human rights, social distribution or other elements. We had a debate about that just before Christmas. I believe that if you look at the follow-up of fundamental social human rights, which included Skovholt Gitmark, it is precisely on the will of the countries themselves to collect tax revenues and use them to fulfil the fundamental human rights obligations. One of the things that strikes me is that too many developing countries are not willing to do so, because you are not willing to take the political burden. But we're going to work for international. A fair distribution is central to fulfilling the fundamental human rights – which are also social. The second is that I take the recording that Skovholt Gitmark made in the education sector. There is no doubt that many young people are at the forefront of the job that is being done, because they are often the most impatient, and they are driving in many contexts for a positive democratic revolution. But then I just want to ask a question back to Peter Skovholt Gitmark, whom he can come back to later. When we discussed the budget for this year, Peter Skovholt cut Gitmark and Right cut out all support for Latin America. That was 200 million. DKK, of which 100 million. kr this year and last year's budget had just been used to strengthen human rights. Colombia, as Peter Skovholt Gitmark mentioned, is one of the countries where student leaders have had it really tough. It is one of those countries where there are still serious violations of human rights, and there, among others. The efforts we make through our allocations to the embassies of those countries contribute to a positive development. That when Peter Skovholt Gitmark said that they would increase the human rights pot by 100 million. kr, but cuts massively, goes beyond our human rights work in the countries where we are. I'll warn you against that. I am therefore pleased that the Stortinget adopted our budget, and not the Right Budget, during the year that was. I would also like to highlight the obvious political dilemma here, which I believe is important that we do not underestimate. It is that in some countries authoritarian boards are set up that are still concerned with fulfilling the social rights of their citizens. I don't think it's to stick under the chair. That is why we are faced with the dilemma: are we going to be inside the country and work with the authorities to support social rights, or are we going to be tough and work for democracy? I believe that we should have a greater emphasis on democracy in the years to come. I'm going to present that in the big message that's going to come, but we can't imagine that in any context it's a dilemma.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e189	It is an important interpellation that is being addressed here today, because human rights and the role of democracy in development policy need to be discussed. First: International human rights are today an important starting point for Norwegian development policy. One of the things we do a lot of work for is to respect human rights and to develop democracy. But it is not always as simple, because it is the countries themselves that have to take responsibility for it. Countries themselves have to do the job – we can't do it for them. However, through development policy and through our assistance, we can contribute to a positive development. We see today that many countries violate fundamental human rights every day. People are oppressed, not given access to food and clean water, kids are not allowed to go to school and are forced into child labour, and women's rights are violated. When we have knowledge that this is happening, we need to discuss measures. I think it is important to have a wide range of instruments to promote human rights and democracy. At the same time, we must be aware that democracy is not established overnight. Changes in attitudes in a society also do not occur in the day. This is something that needs to be worked on continuously over time. But there are several things Norway can do, and as we do today. We're going to be offensive to land that we know violates human rights, and we have to dry up individual cases when we know that there have been serious violations of human rights. We have to use different channels to get results. We must work through the UN and other major actors. The Councils of State mentioned inter alia: The UN Foundation for the Integration of Human Rights, UNICEF, UN review and ILO as good examples. We must also contribute to the competence and experience of state-building and how democracy can function. The most important instrument in the work on democracy and human rights is, I believe, strengthening civil society. If you are to have democracy, there must be something the people of the country want and fight for. It is absolutely impossible for us from the outside to introduce democracy in another country. Therefore, I believe it is absolutely essential that Norway supports various actors who work with influence towards its own authorities: organisations, trade unions and, above all, we must contribute so that independent media can have the right to life. How are we to deal with countries that we know are violating human rights and that are training to build democracy? Clearly, we must have clear expectations of the countries we are actually spending money on through our assistance. The big question is whether we should at all provide assistance to countries that we believe violate human rights or that do not promote democracy. I believe that if there are countries where we spend a lot of money through, for example. state-to-state assistance, and which certainly does not show the will to change, and that things get worse, we should actually consider cutting it all out or reducing aid considerably. But it has to be a balance, a balance up to what we think we can achieve in the future, and what meaning a possible stop in aid will have. It's also about which channels we use to provide assistance. I believe that if we cut a lot in aid to a country, like state-to-state aid, I believe that we should, in any case, spend money on civil society and the media – a few examples that the Council of State also mentioned. Finally, I think it is good that the representative of Skovholt Gitmark raises these issues. The only thing that amazes me is how the Right manages this commitment. In the State budget, the party would cut off all support for Latin America, as also mentioned by the Council of State, where human rights, democracy, support for civil society, and not least the work of women's rights, as the representative mentioned in his statement, are important. Then it is directly wrong for the representative of Skovholt Gitmark to say that the red-green government does not prioritize human rights and democracy – it does. But anyway, I think it's good for us to have the opportunity to discuss this topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e204	This is an important debate, and it is central to development and assistance policy issues. Human rights and democracy are factors in the development of a country that must go hand in hand. The absence of respect for human rights makes democracy impossible — and without democracy, there will also be no possibility of a development that makes human rights real. The interpellant referred to countries such as Ethiopia, Zimbabwe, Iran and Nicaragua and others. And Uganda, too. It is interesting to note a report in the NRC this morning in just Uganda, where the opposition in Uganda points out the simple fact that Norwegian aid to the Ugandan dictatorship regime contributes to supporting the dictatorship in Uganda, helping the dictatorship regime survive longer than otherwise possible. There are strong democratic opposition forces in Uganda. Norway’s efforts in the country help to suppress them. It is in itself an example that Norwegian development policy is not well organised enough. Priorities are not carried out. It is ‘business as usual’ that makes it difficult to implement measures to facilitate the opposition’s fight against the dictatorship in a country such as Uganda. What is important is to make sure that it is the democratic forces that are being helped instead of helping the dictatorship survive, which we unfortunately see happen, among other things. in Uganda. A dictator will always see it as an advantage that the population suffers from poverty and oppression. There is a historic line from the European empires of the 1700s and 1800s, via the Soviet Union of Stalin, to today's dictatorships in Asia and Africa. They see the country's income as the most important thing. They see the extraction of natural resources as a source of strengthening their own position. For them, the development of wealth and well-being in the country is completely uninterested, because a better economy and greater respect for human rights will be seen as a threat to the dictatorship regime. So it's a night and day situation compared to what we're used to. A government in a country such as Norway will not survive if welfare and welfare issues are not given great importance and that it is possible to maintain full employment and good economic development. So in the dictatorships we're talking about here, it's the other way around. For them, there's an advantage of what goes bad in the country, because then they maintain power indefinitely. We notice that the Council of State Eidsvoll Holmås says that it should be right and important to reward countries that show the will to develop democracy, and he mentioned Myanmar. It is positive, but the logical consequence of this must be to make the exact opposite strategy for countries that definitely do not show the will to reward the development of democracy and human rights, or the signs of prioritising this. This will be my comment on this important debate. I think it is important that unhelpful questions are now discussed thoroughly. There is good reason to call for a more active government attitude to give priority to the development of respect for human rights and democracy, thus enabling poor countries and working out poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e217	The Council of State concluded its contribution by pointing to a dilemma, namely the places where authoritarian regimes violate human rights but are engaged in social rights. It can sometimes be a dilemma. But I think the most important thing for a country like Norway, which a significant giver and a significant actor, is to stick to the basics: human rights are universal. They apply regardless of the time and place, they cannot be replaced, they cannot be exchanged, and they cannot be waived by authoritarian leaders who believe that other rights are more important. To put it another way: Sick if you get food on the table, that doesn't mean you've said you're entitled to freedom of speech. That starting point has to be what's going on. It's a time for quiet diplomacy. It's a time to say clearly from the beginning. It is also important that Norway has a clear and clear attitude not only towards countries that are remote and that do not mean much, but that we have exactly the same attitude towards countries where we may have strategic and economic interests, precisely because human rights are universal and apply independently of time and place. The Council of State has an important point, namely that national policies in Norway are crucial. Where war and conflict arise, where there is a violation of human rights, where economic progress is weak, and where there is mismanagement, it is the national policy that plays a large part. However, we influence through the countries with which we cooperate and how we cooperate with the countries. The current Minister for Development, Erik Solheim, made a contribution to the Annual Station Manager’s Meeting in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on 26 August 2010. All his moments – quite a few of them – have been posted on the U.D.'s websites, and under the heading «Climate adaptation» Erik Solheim says: «Climate washing: All Norwegian assistance, both existing and all new measures, shall be reviewed to ensure that they do not contribute negatively to the climate.» I would like there to be equal ambitions in the area of human rights – that all Norwegian aid was ‘washed up’, which one can then use as a concept – simply to ensure that it does not contribute negatively to human rights. Perhaps the most striking thing about reading through Erik Solheim's points and points to the station managers in 2010 is that through all the themes he mentions, human rights are not mentioned in one word. It may be a coincidence, but I think unfortunately it's an expression of the way the government has prioritised. In Sweden and Finland, they have now established a whole new approach to development policy, with human rights at the centre. The government has also shown on some occasions that it can make decisions and take action that is becoming important. On 28 November 2011, Stortinget received a letter — also from Erik Solheim — with a planned budget support of 70 million. kr to Malawi was redispatched because, as it said: ‘when the State budget was presented in the summer of 2011, it became clear that the Malawi reform programme with the IMF had to be put on ice. A negative trend in governance and human rights also contributed to donors holding back budgetary support. Norway, together with other budgetary donors, has made its concern about tightening up the democratic space for action.’.» That's exactly what we have called for from the Right, even in more countries than Malawi. Because it is an effective tool, and it also showed the example of Malawi. Much can be done to improve the focus on human rights in Norwegian development policy. One of the points that have been mentioned earlier, and I think it may be worth asking the Council of State to consider, is whether a sort of ethics council, similar to that of the State pension fund abroad, would be available in the U.D. to assess corruption, to assess human rights developments and, where appropriate, to assess the extent of assistance. Because at some point you have to ask yourself the questions: Where are the boundaries going? When is development so negative that we can no longer defend being present? And in that case, what criteria should apply to extractions? I also think it is important that the reviews and reports made in individual countries to assess the projects against human rights are made publicly available to the Stortinget and to the public. For it is important to be able to supervise and have transparency in the processes that are in fact. So there are opportunities to do far more in the field of human rights. I think it is great that my good colleague, Mr Skovholt Gitmark, addresses such an important issue, and that we get, I think, a very good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e247	I thank the interpellant for having raised an important debate. The idea of human dignity and universal equivalency is basically a pillar of our defence both for human rights, for democracy and for our international development cooperation. Human rights are based on the fact that human dignity belongs to the individual human being and that it belongs to all humans. Democracy is based on the fact that all adult people are authoritative individuals. The equivalency is reflected in the principle of one man – and woman – one voice. The ethical basis of development cooperation lies not least in the combination of respect for human dignity, the equivalency of all, and the love of all — the idea of solidarity. When the human dignity of others is violated by disasters or wars, by distress and poverty, by oppression and injustice, we should not be indifferent. It is such a sense of solidarity that has been the cornerstone of the Norwegian people's uprising on international emergency aid and development cooperation for decades. The link between the realisation of human rights and development cooperation is obvious. When the right to life and health is violated, more than paragraphs are required. Efforts are needed to build health services that can prevent and treat disease and damage. When the right to education is violated, more than paragraphs are required. School constructions, teachers and teaching materials are needed. When freedom of expression and freedom of belief are violated, more is needed than paragraphs of the law. Institutions are needed to ensure the rule of law and qualified people to man them. And free media and civil society are needed to control the exercise of power. Consequently, the contribution of assistance to the realisation of human rights and democracy is greater and wider than a work aimed at building institutions for democracy and civil human rights in a narrow sense. At the same time, there is good reason to ask whether more direct work to promote human rights and democracy through assistance is well organised and whether the results are consistent with the objectives. It was a Norad evaluation of this in 2011 that suggests that we are not systematic enough from the Norwegian side – that this is not well enough anchored in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would like to ask the Council of State how this 2011 evaluation has been followed up. Over a decade, we've spent about 10 billion. kr on assistance, with the aim of promoting human rights. Civil society manages a large part of the funds. So does the United Nations. Norway has made a significant contribution in several areas, including: to strengthen human rights defenders in many countries. The evaluations that have been carried out indicate that there are clear points of improvement. There are limitations on how easily one can change the deeper prerequisites for living democracy and the safeguarding of human rights. For this work may collide with existing power and cultural attitudes as well as a number of other practical obstacles. This work is often politically sensitive. In our view, we need more systematics. We need to know what gives results, not just set your intentions high. Let me therefore state – with a broad pen – that human rights must be respected in a broad sense. That requirement must be maintained before the authorities of all countries. State-to-state assistance may be cut at the extreme, and this has happened in cases where the mismanagement of the authorities makes assistance impossible. But I have a kind but definite advice to my honourable colleagues from the Right who have raised this debate: the best must not be the enemy of the good! It is, of course, a characteristic of poor countries that governments have major shortcomings. There would be no assistance at all if we were to base Norwegian objectives on political and civil rights for the countries to which we are going to provide assistance. If we do that, we will deprive the people of these countries of some other fundamental human rights that are about their right to life, health and school. Therefore, it is not possible to be as square as it may be tempted to withdraw from the representative of Skovholt Gitmark here today. We can become so politically correct and square in our fundamental struggle for human rights that the result is that fewer people experience their human rights – in a broad sense – being respected. Of course, that's not the point. Nor can we pursue a cut-off policy to defend human rights, which in reality weakens human rights. It would go across our overall goal, which is to pursue a development policy that brings results to those people who need it most. That is why we must always ask when we are faced with situations like Malawi, Zimbabwe and other countries: what are the consequences for those people who want to be affected by a decision to withdraw Norwegian aid? It's also about human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e266	Human rights and democracy must be one of the fundamental objectives of all Norwegian foreign policy, including aid and development policy. It is a fact that Norway has been — and is — a driver of human rights and democracy internationally for a long time. It was supposed to be missing, too. Clearly, both as a democracy and as free citizens, we have a responsibility to participate in building up under the development of universal rights internationally. I am also pleased that the Council of State says that he places greater emphasis on democracy in the new communication on Norwegian development policy coming to Stortinget. I agree with the Council of State that there should be a sober and realistic relationship with what can be done with aid and development policy. At the same time, I raise questions about the dilemma that the Council of State is raising, that authoritarian regimes that focus on social rights, combating poverty and development in that field, but at the same time do not respect universal rights, democracy and human rights. In such a situation, it is important that Norway has a clear and clear position and a clear objective of the policy we are going to pursue. The aim must be that poverty reduction and development must be accompanied by democracy and the development of human rights. Because it is a fact that, in order to have a stable and economic development, one has to and depends on having a good governance that can develop over time, that one has institutions that can combat corruption, that can build up civil society and have transparency in each country. It should not be the case that an authoritarian regime that does something positive in the social field makes Norway less clear about building up under democracy – to be clear that respect for human rights is a clear goal. You have to be particularly careful not to legitimize an authoritarian regime with the contact you have with such a regime. It is clear that we should be involved if we believe that we can contribute to a positive development. It is the direction of development that is crucial for what Norway should do. It is also to point out that human rights and democracy need not only be made clear by the government in development policy, but may also be made more general in foreign policy. I read in Today's Business today that Secretary of State Espen Barth Eide is in Azerbaijan. If, without reservation, he is quoted correctly when he describes the President of Azerbaijan – Aliev, a very authoritarian president – as a very visionary and intelligent leader, and ends with the fact that he sits for a while, allowing him to think in the long term, I am concerned about whether democracy and human rights are the government's clearest and foremost goal, or whether there are other interests, Norwegian economic interests, which go ahead and are considered to be more important. But I take note of the words of the Council of State that he will place greater emphasis on democracy in Norwegian development policy in the years to come, and look forward to the message coming to the Stortinget to confirm how this is to be done in practical policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e279	The representative Peter N. Myhre said that dictators will always see it as an advantage for people to suffer. I think maybe it's a well-simplified problem. In any case, the Arab Spring would have become a wake for many a dictator in that way. Another lesson we have to learn from the Arab Spring is that the opposition is not by definition the democratic alternative to the dictatorship. I remember one of the insurgents in Libya, who, according to the media, said that when they were rid of Gaddafi, they could finally introduce polycony, because now there were so many old virgins that no one took care of. The goal behind that uprising was a little different, to say it like that. The interpellant drew up democracy and fundamental human rights as the main objective of development policy, together with the permanent emancipation of people from poverty. I don't think there's any disagreement about this right here in this room. The question is, as many people have been asking, how do we reach that goal? How does democracy develop in countries without a structural basis for democracy in our sense, where the conditions of power do not depend on dividing lines that can be organised in political parties, but are more fundamental in ethnicity or tribes? How do we develop Western democracy in such countries, in countries where illiteracy must be overcome in order for the population to participate in an informed social debate at all? What does youth demand in Ghana, in Vietnam, or in China? Is it democracy or work? Then I fully agree with the representative, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, that democracy is not something you can replace with work, or replace it with food on the table. That's not the point, but where do these young people put what they can out of expectation – call the political pressure – into their authorities? Then it's on the job, then it's on the table. The point is, as the Minister for Aid pointed out, that democracy must develop from within, it cannot be imported. We can support, we can be a model, we can say from here about developments going in the wrong direction, whether it's democracy or human rights, we have to make demands. But what do we do when we go wrong, or don't go fast enough in the right way? What's the best way to the goal? That's the dilemma we're facing. Is it pulling out? That's the easiest solution, because then we have our path clean. But does it bring it forward, does it become more democracy, does it become more human rights, does it improve development? That is, as the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten concluded, the question we also have to ask ourselves when facing that balance and that dilemma. And then we know that it may be necessary, as we've done several places, where we either have removed the support from the government channel or withdrawn. So the alternative is to find other channels that governments can't take advantage of to strengthen the democratic forces that need to exist in that country. Civil society is an important channel, Norwegian organisations are an important partner. What this debate shows is, in my view, a broad consensus on putting great emphasis on democracy and human rights in development policy, helping to bring it about in the poor countries, as well as economic and social development. But what's right here is a development policy where the threshold for turning your back on a country is lowered. It can make the path of democracy, human rights and development more and more difficult for the people of these countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e297	I have a confession to come with. I have also fought election campaigns outside Norway's borders. One of the countries in which I have been fighting elections is in Uganda. It was observed that the opposition was attacked again and again with the following almost rhetorical question: The world supports President Museveni. Museveni is one of the state leaders who receive the most in budget support. How clearly must the opposition accept that, with the donor countries, they do not support the opposition, but they support the President? My contribution to the election campaign, which was then for a political friend of mine, was to say that Norwegian aid to Uganda would be even greater if you manage to rely on respect for human rights and democracy. It's not and shouldn't be a legitimacy in what we do in relation to one regime, and at least in relation to one dictator. That means what we're going to coin that support. The answer to the representative, Højbräten, is that our development policy is a broad development policy, and assistance is an important part. But we need to focus on results, and based on those results, it must be clear that what we do with regard to the whole of development policy should not contribute to the permanent undermining of neither poverty nor human rights and democracy. I believe that, without withdrawing from the country, it is going to do a lot with internal distribution in terms of projects ashore, just to achieve our two main objectives. The threshold shall be significantly lower in order to redefine the allocation of funds. So I would like to say that it is gratifying that the Council of State wants to look further at the position of students and the possibility of being in Norway. I hope it will be – I hope the Council of State will be able to sign out – part of the big message that is coming. Then we've been attacked several times in Latin America. Yes, the answer to that is – in a few seconds – that even with 30 billion. We also have to make a priority. We make that priority both thematically and geographically, and our main objectives are fixed: sustainable out of poverty and human rights and democracy. That's where we want to add the main resources. But, once again, aid is only part of development policy. I will end by saying that the Right should be measured on actions, not on words. With the Right, Norwegian development policy will support, not counter, the principles of sustainable poverty, human rights and democracy. It's a policy I hope we get the opportunity to exercise after the next elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e315	At least we share that ambition that we both have to win the election. But we can't do that, so it's one of us who wins. That's in itself okay, that's democracy. Let me start by saying one thing: I think it's a little too ambitious to base «do no harm» on human rights. I think we actually have to assume that we're going to do something that contributes positively. We're not just going to contribute negatively, we're going to contribute positively. I did not realize that the Right believed that they did not agree, but I do not think that the list should be set too low in terms of their own ambitions. Neither do I. I believe that the efforts we are making – and we will do more of that in the future – will contribute positively to the development of human rights and democracy. So I want to say one thing: Democracy is not just putting a ballot in an urn, and then it's democracy. It is crucial for the allocation of political power in a society that one also has the distribution of money, the distribution of values. That is why I believe that democracy and distribution are closely linked. There are a lot of people on the right-hand side -- and I think that's a general charge against the right-hand side, which has been kind of a discussion between the right-hand side and the left-hand side -- that has been more concerned with the possibility of adding a ballot in the urn than of looking at the distribution of society. But the real power of a society is measured by both. We're going to base that on the message. Let me do some examples. It was brought forward Malawi, which was one of the places where we withheld money, state aid, because we thought that development was negative. Eritrea is another example. There's been a negative development. Today, Eritrea is one of the countries that is cutting the highest — which is thus the worst in the world in terms of human rights. Zimbabwe is another country we have withdrawn from, but where we are now back in supporting elections and human rights in building up and marching towards the next elections. Uganda is a multi-country country. One of the things that I think is interesting about Uganda is that on the one hand, there are clear and clear voices – like in the VG today, where you say cut all the aid to Uganda. In the opposition in Uganda, it is mixed. There are many there who do not want all the assistance to be cut. But this is precisely the focus we have on building up national audit and construction in relation to oil management, where we propose to have a broad democratic debate about this. So, the anchoring that lies there, and support for civil society, is important in order to continue the assistance in the coming time. So it's important that we don't take too lightly on dilemmas. If we move out of a country, we can get into that position that we take the food away from the table to someone, because we don't achieve what's about democratic development. It's a dilemma. Then we also have to think about maybe then providing the food on the table for someone who lives in a country that has a more positive democratic development. That's why I'm putting emphasis on it. We will come back to this in connection with the Storing Message. We got a good debate on this then, and I'm glad we had this opportunity to have this pre-postage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e335	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e351	Norway's achievements in the fight against tobacco damage in the last 10–15 years give reason to ask: What can we learn that can help us in public health policy in the future? The question I have personally discussed with most of the Nordics in my 35-40 years of Norwegian policy is the Smoking Act. The most frequently asked question in these discussions is: Could we do something similar to alcohol? I have now avoided answering that question categorically, but I will use this my last interpellation debate in this Chamber as a magnificent representative to raise the question to a minister who has declared that public health policy is going to be an important issue in the future. The Health Minister has said he will return to public health policy. He has announced a new public health report to the Stortinget, the first since the Bondevik government presented its ‘Recept for a healthier Norway’ in 2004. That's good. I have promoted the interpellation because I want to challenge the Council of State to debate what we can do in the light of the experience of tobacco policy. It is important to note that there is a wide variation in the use of alcohol and tobacco in public health. Experience cannot be transferred directly. There are differences in social acceptance, type of adverse effects and other framework conditions. Therefore, the active substances have to be different. Nobody talks about a ban on alcohol in the same way as we do against smoking in different contexts. Nevertheless, many lessons are relevant. Firstly, the dramatic decline in the number of daily smokers is due to a pinch of measures that all have in common that they are based on knowledge of what works and what does not work. This overall set of measures has been put in place with strength over time. They've been committed to clear targets. And the targets are met. Secondly, the strong emphasis on smoking harm to non-smokers themselves has created an understanding of intervention. Thirdly, support for restrictive policies has increased rapidly as most people experienced the qualities of a smoke-free nightlife. The key words behind the results are therefore a targeted and comprehensive policy, actions based on knowledge, appeal for solidarity with those who are hit innocently, and good experience with the results of the policy. Alcohol is a major cause of illness and early death. Weird use of alcohol kills 2.5 million people in the world every year. Alcohol damage costs Europe about 975 billion. kr annually. More than 7 pst. of all diseases and premature death in EU countries can be related to alcohol. The adverse effects also affect people other than those who drink themselves. For example, 10,000 people die each year in traffic in Europe because of the drunkenness of others. The hardest hit are the children: about nine million European children live in fear and insecurity because one of their loved ones drinks. In recent years, it has become increasingly common to focus on those who are innocently affected by alcohol use, so-called passive drinking. Consequences for third parties or passive drinking shall be premissive of drug policy, as stated in the drug notification. That's good. Noise-related problems include more than dependence, including: Somatic disorders, acute injuries, alcohol poisoning and foetal harm. Studies show that consumption also falls among those who drink the most when total consumption falls. Internationally, many have pointed out that the fight against tobacco and alcohol has been ineffective when the emphasis has been on people being able to harm themselves, while they have been much more effective in periods where the emphasis has been on harm to other innocent people. We can say that the theory of alcoholism that went through after the war turned alcohol use into a purely private matter, because the damage to others was ignored. The well-known scientist and medic Hans Olav Fekjær is one of those who has strongly asserted this in Norway. The damage to others has been rediscovered in the last decade. Until approx. In 2000, there was virtually no research on injury to others; now we have research reports on this from more than ten countries. The research tells us that much more is plagued by the drinking of others than those who suffer from their own drinking. Two sizes may illustrate this: SIRUS numbers indicate that over a year, 1.5 million adults are plagued by other people’s drinking. Over the course of a year, it will be about 100000 physically injured by a full person. If one discovered another phenomenon in society with such dramatic adverse effects for such a large part of the population, which is so much innocent of the damage, there would be a lot of noise here in the staging room, and all parties would gather for action. It is estimated that 50,000 to 150 000 children live with parents in Norway with a risky alcohol consumption. It is estimated that 450,000 children in Norway have one or two parents with mental illness or who abuse alcohol. Some 70 000 parents have problems with alcohol that are so severe that it is likely to interfere with daily functioning. 30 000 children are seriously affected by their parents’ alcohol problems. These are big numbers, and behind every number there's a destiny -- an unhappy child. The risk that children will experience serious adverse events and be subjected to violence or sexual assault, or that they will die early, is about twice as great for these children as for other children. This is a powerful diet. The debate on today's theme brings with it good news and bad news. The good news is that we can actually achieve results if we are based on research and knowledge. The possibilities are better than ever to develop a knowledge-based alcohol policy that serves public interests in a good way. Nevertheless, according to researchers themselves, research-based knowledge is too rarely the basis for action to limit alcohol-related problems. In many cases, strategies and actions that research has shown are not effective or have not been evaluated or have a poor impact. In my opinion, the population has the right to expect a knowledge-based approach to alcohol policy. The bad news is that we have to be willing to take some unpopular grip. We know that there is a strong link between the use of restrictive alcohol policy instruments on the one hand and alcohol consumption on the other. As in the fight against tobacco damage, alcohol research can actually be summarised as follows: the measures that work are unpopular, while the measures that do not work are quite popular. Where it is the strictest alcohol policy, consumption is the lowest and the lowest. So we know that high prices and low availability don't necessarily give us politicians a high star in the election masses. A central task is therefore to gain an understanding that the individual has a responsibility not only for his or her own situation but also for his or her fellow human beings. That's what was at the heart of the smoking law. You have your freedom to smoke, but not in such a way that you deprive others of the freedom not to smoke. I think that's a direct transfer value when we're talking about passive drinking. Research tells us that we are dealing with what is called epidemiological phenomena in the professional language. This means that the use of alcohol is related to the environment of people. This again demands that each of us think about where and when and with whom we use alcohol. On the basis of this idea, it is appropriate to be willing to accept higher prices, restrictions on the availability and prohibition of advertising, for the health and well-being of the Community, and for those who are hit unscrupulously. Accepting this basis of knowledge and experience, as the government seems to be doing, is the question: Are you willing to take the consequences of it – any practical and concrete consequences? It will be my question to the Council of State here today. Let me give you some examples of how the challenge will be concrete: what will the Council of State do to the children who suffer in Norway because of the use of alcohol by adults? What action will he take against children of drug addicts? What will he do to ensure that all pregnant women are aware of the dangers they are putting on their children by using alcohol during pregnancy? There is evidence that health warnings on the products are effective. Countries like France, New Zealand and the United States are pregnant. There is evidence that it works. Is it relevant to do this in Norway? Alcohol takes many lives and causes serious injuries to traffic every year. Will the government continue to address the issue of alcohol, initially for professional drivers, in order to limit these accidents? From the late 1970s onward, a comprehensive strategy was put in place for non-alcoholic zones. How will the Minister of Health monitor work on non-alcoholic zones: arenas in society that should be non-alcoholic for various reasons? 40 pst. of the adult people who drink, they drink in a job context. Isn't it time to challenge social partners to a proper dialogue on alcohol use in work-related contexts? Or what about sports? Could it be appropriate to start cooperation with the social and sporting organisations in order to expand the arenas for freedom of alcohol? I also need to address the question of timing and control, where the government has had a rather hesitant approach. You've kind of been up like a lion and down like a skin trap for two rounds. That is quite incomprehensible, because there are guaranteed results here. Research from Norway, from Norwegian cities that have tried to cut the turnout time by one hour, shows that crime fell by 17pst. In the middle of town in Trondheim, where they tried the same thing, there was a fall in violence at almost 40 p.m. Will the Minister for Health re-examine a proposal for a one-hour curtailment period? Let me say that I think it's a lot to pick up when it comes to checking the outstretching and control of the outstretched areas, because there's actually no one doing today, so I also want to ask if the state council will follow up on this. I look forward with excitement and anticipation to the response of the Council of State and to the debate. He has gone high on the field of good public health and alcohol policy analysis and ambition. Now we are waiting for the concrete measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e402	The other day, a party colleague of the interpellant had an article in the paper under the heading ‘Large + High bank = true’. There was no doubt that this was about health policies and ambitions for public health. And quite rightly, here the representative Højbräten and I – and our parties – have a lot in common to build on, which I think today's debate will show. It is a good point that we can learn from the experience we have done in the tobacco field and draw bills on them to prevent damage to the alcohol field. For in Norway as an international point of view, tobacco and alcohol are important risk factors for disease and premature death. We have the knowledge. Then we must also have the ability to act. In Norway, as in most other countries, the disease is characterised by the slow, non-infectious lifestyle diseases: heart disease, diabetes, some cancers and coal, to name a few. The World Health Organization says we're witnessing an epidemic. Deeper societal changes are at the root of this trend: urbanisation, altered diets, tobacco, alcohol, lack of physical activity. The good news in the middle of this is that many of these diseases and conditions can be prevented. We can reduce a number of risk factors. The core of the cooperation reform is to help prevent better, take responsibility early, stay close to where we live, live and work, and that the municipality is really committed to prevention measures. Then we have to clarify the policy in this. The prevention policy needs a strong boost. Yes, I think we need a mobilization for public health. It challenges each of us as individuals. We have to think through our choices. But it also challenges us as a society. We have to make sure that we can make the right choices. In Norway, we have seen positive results as a result of stricter regulation of the use and placing on the market of tobacco. The interpellant shall have its share of the credit for this. The measures taken by Norway and Ireland have spread to many countries at no time dared to hope for. Together, countries have reversed the trend through international cooperation and consistent national follow-up. Of course, we have to learn from this experience. But let's remember, in one sense, tobacco was simpler, because the product was so unequivocally negative for health, the industry had little legitimacy, and along with information and knowledge it was quite clear which regulations worked. Prevention of alcohol is more complicated in our culture for several reasons. Nevertheless, the work on the different risk factors has to be seen in the context. At the same time, the measures must be tailored to each individual risk factor. We have to take national circumstances into account. In the tobacco field, many similar things happened in many countries at the same time. That was part of the basis for success. International cooperation paved the way for national processes, while international work would not take place without ground in national circumstances. So it's about cooperation – and assessing time and place, timing. Norway is working specifically to achieve a similar dynamic between international and national conditions across the field of non-infectious diseases. The UN has now taken the challenges seriously. In the autumn of 2011, the UN General Assembly adopted a resolution on the fight against the non-infectious diseases. Last autumn, the WHO agreed on targets and indicators to follow up this resolution. This shows the willingness to achieve the UN target of reducing the premature death of non-infectious diseases by 25 pst. by 2025. Just before Christmas, the report The Global Burden of Disease Study 2010 was presented. The report shows how tobacco, alcohol, unhealthy diets and lack of physical activity are becoming increasingly important to the global picture of disease. These international processes thus provide us with relief in national public health work. That's good. Drug use in alcohol policy is similar to tobacco policy, as the interpellant noted: relatively high excise duties and availability regulation. Alcohol policy has been consistently effective: Norway is still among the countries with the lowest alcohol consumption per capita. Consumption among young people appears to be stagnating and possibly decreasing. That's good. But that doesn't mean we can say we're satisfied. In the Nordic countries, unfortunately, we have a drinking pattern that gives a higher level of harm per unit than the drinking pattern in the Mediterranean countries. We see an increase in alcohol consumption in the adult population, and especially among women. That's cause for concern. In the last decades, alcohol work has largely focused on harm to the drug user himself. Again, we need to pay attention to the individual choices. However, the interpellant rightly points to the importance of lifting up also the damage and risk of alcohol consumption to third parties. I fully agree with that. In the news of drug policy, we give a broad description of damage to third parties. Inspired by similar concepts of tobacco, we have called it ‘passive drinking’. Now there's nothing new. Alcohol policy has been largely justified in the interests of third parties: children, spouses, road users, victims of violence — to name a few. And this is not a new line in public health policy. The fight against alcohol abuse by the labour movement in the first half of the 1900s was closely linked to the political struggle for social cohesion and public health. The third party consideration was also in the focus. We have many measures to reach children and other relatives of people with drug problems. They need to be made visible and listened to, which I emphasize in meeting with their speaking organizations. They have strong stories to tell about the human price of adult dependence, especially on young lives. This gives us an inspiration to focus on children, relatives and other third parties in order to justify and support alcohol policy. This was one of the strategies that was successful on the tobacco side. The visibility of the damage done by workers in the restaurant industry made it easier to find out about the necessary measures, as the interpellant remembers well. We must learn from this. We need to make third-party damage to alcohol visible, and we need to show why these involve the need for action by individuals, but also at the population level. In this way, we can ensure that the necessary action is taken on alcohol policy, and this is also being worked on in concrete terms in the position to be taken in this report. With Norwegian active involvement, the WHO adopted a global alcohol strategy in 2010. In the past, alcohol-related issues were a matter for European countries. The new alcohol strategy coincides with the strong growth in alcohol consumption in Asia and Africa. Gradually, a global agenda takes shape. It's necessary. National measures are weaker without them. We remember well: the WHO Convention on Tobacco Control of 2003 was, and is still, a key instrument in international tobacco work. It has had an important signal effect and has made it easier for health authorities to adopt legal regulations, now at the latest through the latest proposals for tightening up. Do we need a framework convention for alcohol? The question has been raised, inter alia: from the International Medical Association and some national States. I don't want to rule it out. However, product characteristics, injury profile, patterns of use, market actors and disagreement on instruments make it more complicated to establish an alcohol convention than a tobacco convention. We must not become entangled in time-playing rope drawing on convention texts. The WHO alcohol strategy should now be tested before embarking on other working methods. Nevertheless, some problems are comparable for alcohol and tobacco — and also for unhealthy food. This applies, inter alia, to: the placing on the market of the products. Here we might want a more coordinated international strategy. In this context, it may be assessed whether a Convention can be an appropriate instrument. As Minister of Health and Care, I try to think of two thoughts at the same time: I want to help people get the best possible treatment when they need it, and I want to help make good health choices limit the need for treatment. It's good for the individual and good for society. This will be a major feature of the forthcoming public health report. We have to think in a broader perspective. We have our own responsibility, and we have common responsibility, and we need to find the right balance. Taking seriously the knowledge of health challenges from lifestyle-related diseases and mental health, the task is not to misunderstand: we need broad mobilisation – for better knowledge and clearer policies. Well-documented and effective instruments are not always as popular as the interpellant. Therefore, volunteers, patient organisations and other actors, politicians and public authorities need to play together well and complement each other in this important work. Think of what the Cancer Society has meant for tobacco prevention! We need equally clear votes to prevent alcohol-related damage. It is a guiding principle in our culture that we protect our children – from threats and from harmful behavior from adults. As for tobacco, we should have a bold debate on measures that restrict the availability of goods causing these damage. If we restrict the availability, we limit the damage. For the sake of solidarity with those who struggle with dependence and the many third parties affected by ‘passive drinking’, we can tolerate restrictions on the availability of alcoholic beverages. We live well with that, including the many of us who do not experience problems related to either their use or those of others. My position is clear: we do not win with moralism and raise indexing fingers. Regulations shall be used if necessary. I believe in knowledge and organisation – and in cooperation. Cooperation with volunteers can help turn development on a healthier track. Cooperation with business operators can produce results as monks – when they show credible willingness to take responsibility. I am working on the idea of an initiative with the social partners. This issue is also part of the dialogue we have with employment in Norway. I am to take, and will take, the initiative to contact sports, while at the same time recording with some concern that alcohol becomes more prominent at major public sports events. I will not exclude the idea of non-alcoholic zones, but this must be investigated, delimited and given the kind of anchoring that despite all the tobacco prevention work had. Then I think we'll get back to the theme of the gift times in the debate. This is now a responsibility for the municipalities. I think that's wise. Then it is up to those who have power and responsibility in the municipalities to make good, informative decisions about giving time. Because, as the representative says, reduced turnout time has an undeniable consequence on the level of violence in the centre of our cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e469	Thank you to the Council of State for an appropriate and solid response. I think we almost entirely share the analysis of this important topic, and we also share the importance of doing something about it. I would like to pay tribute to the Council of State for what he has now committed himself to from the Chair of the United Kingdom, namely to initiate a dialogue with the social partners on alcohol use in the context of working life, and with sports organisations similar. It's very good, and I look forward to the follow-up. Then I would like the Council of State, in the light of the strong emphasis he puts on the aspect of solidarity – and I fully agree with the recognition he gives to the movement of workers historically for work against alcohol damage – to be somewhat more bold in its answer to my questions about the willingness to use instruments. Let me take the tipping times: it's not right, as the council says, that it's entirely in the hands of the municipalities. The majority has adopted an alcohol law setting the framework for the freedom of local authorities in this field. It has been traveled, not primarily from the Christian People's Party, but from the government itself, a proposal to amend the alcohol law, i.e. change the framework conditions for the management of alcohol policy by municipalities, because it is so thoroughly scientifically documented that it will have an effect. I would have thought that the solid research results would be a platform for the government to go out and say to those who had to be skeptical of such a change: Look what you get! So in this case, there are not smoke-free outdoors, which have proven to be very popular, but safer cities with less assaults and rapes and other types of crime in the evening and at night, with the opportunity to move freer and safer in our cities. There is a quality that I believe, in addition to the solid knowledge at the bottom, could provide a basis for gaining an understanding of such – in my opinion – relatively little intervention. I want to challenge the Council of State once again in this respect, because the government has a majority, if it will, and I can guarantee that the government in this area will have a wider majority than it can itself show in this Chamber. The Christian People's Party will set itself 100 pst. behind such a measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e480	I fully agree that this information must flow to the municipalities, so that they know what they can gain from making wise choices for their cities. This can also be about ensuring that not all outdoor sites are closed at the same time in the same area so that there is a concentration at the time of closure. But the solution to this has become that it is the responsibility of the municipality, and then it is interesting to follow up the representative Højbråten's comment to me on the radio today early, where he said that the Christian People's Party is a guarantor of a strict alcohol policy. That's something I believe the representative in, because I know his commitment. But then it's interesting to see that his party is in leading positions in Norway's two largest cities, for example. in Bergen. It was agreed in 2008 to tighten up the shift times from 8 p.m. 3:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 02.30, but in 2012, time was liberalised again. Now, so-called cultural sites can be served until 5.00 p.m. 3:00 a.m. on Fridays and Saturdays, and the audience can buy alcohol for 3:00 p.m. 3:00 a.m. but drink till 3:00 a.m. 03.30. It was the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the City Government List and the Green Party who voted in favour, and the Workers' Party, the Red, SV and the Center Party voted against. As far as Oslo is concerned, I'm recording that the timing here is not tight. In the City Council Declaration, the Christian People's Party has been allowed to accept these opening hours. It's an honest thing, but a guarantor against that happening, at least they're not. Here we might see a little difference between life and learning. We don't have a national curtailment of donation time, but we have a clear call for the municipalities to take measures that are appropriate to local conditions, to limit them. What comes from news from SIRUS and other research environments on the relationship between alcohol and violence should provide a good basis for those who sit by the majority to take wise decisions. Here I think everyone gets to go a little bit on their own. The equation that Bigger + Højbråten = true, I think in many ways votes, but I don't think the equation goes up in this area, if we said that the Højbråten + some other names – with great respect for them – where the policy is much further away from the truth. Now I don't want to inflate this disagreement in an area where I believe the representative and I agree, and where we have to write this into a big public health context. It's just to say that making these decisions is happening today in the municipalities, and we have to hold those who have political power there, responsible for the decisions they make.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e497	Addressing public health challenges related to alcohol is important, but these issues often drown in the public debate. That is why it is good that the representative Højbräten has raised this issue into the Stortinget. In other words, in the media, they may be more concerned about it when the Progress Party attacks the alcohol policy vacuum with its liberalisation measures. That is why it is good that the interpellant has put this on the agenda. ‘Who do you think you are?’ is a TV program at NRK. It's an interesting and exciting program that tells about the family history of famous people, but it can also be seen as a journey in public health history. We have heard of domestics, poverty support, sexual exploitation of women, infectious diseases and poor hygienic conditions. 170 loot fishermen died a year and left many women and children in great poverty — without income and livelihood. Adoption and exclusion of children were not an infrequentity — not always because of watershed, but because of economic need. Some were advocating their children away, hoping to get foster parents who took good care of them. We know that that wasn't always the case. In a debate on public health, it is important to include the establishment of the broad welfare state. In Norway, it is about combining responsibility for one’s own life with a sense of solidarity for all. The redistribution of wealth – the state’s and private individuals’ – is one of the most important means of giving more people good lives and living longer in the country, as it is called in the adventures. For the Workers' Party, it is also important to have a preventive focus on children, and I am proud to belong to the party where former Health Minister Sylvia Brustad was able to make clear the needs of children on the agenda by including provisions in the Health Personnel Act and the Special Health Service Act. In this context, it is stated that the need for serious illness of children in parents is to be assessed. It is an instrument that provides opportunities for early intervention and the provision of measures that can improve the situation of children. The Children's Best Competence Network at Sørlanden Hospital is also a result of the government's commitment to children and young people. It works well, especially with regard to some of the challenges raised by the Højbråten in its contribution to disseminating expertise on the effects of impact on third parties. I am also pleased that we have been given a formulation that children and young people should be taken into account in the Law on Social Services in Nav. Former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget has also mentioned this work. I had an interpellation in May 2011, I think it was, and it is now working to focus on the children's situation also in the case of children of parents who are in prison. Women's autonomy and right of access to their own lives, a job that provides adequate income and decent work, without the exploitation of employees and knowledge that childhood means a great deal to how to get what adults are three important issues in the broad public health perspective. Work is important to provide people with good health and to take responsibility for their own health. Tripartite cooperation has led to good and highly competitive business in Norway. Getting rid of the disease is a support bar in this collaboration. Alcohol use is a factor contributing to people falling out of work. Estimates that we know about the costs of alcohol use amount to between 11.5 billion. kr and 12,5 br. kr per year. The follow-up regime and the measures provided for in the IA Agreement are a good tool for early intervention and better follow-up in the labour market. The aim is to prevent exclusion and to contribute to the impact of individual alcohol use on work: Should adequate assistance be provided through AKAN/HMS measures or referral to treatment? The government's noise message records some of the items to which the representative Højbrått refers. It's a trick of action, it goes over time, it's clear goals and, not least, it's a focus on the impact on third parties. It also contains international obligations. It contains charging policy, gift control, strict regulation and knowledge – a knowledge that the Progress Party in particular, but also not the Right, is taking on a completely internal level, as I read the alcohol policy outlays of the bourgeois parties. The restrictive nature of the High Bridge is unlikely to be adopted, with a new government. The summit says that the Council of State is going up like a lion and down like a skin trap – if I heard correctly. The Council of State points out that there are more similarities between the Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party than between the Christian People's Party and the opposition, and I am behind that. In our city we have had good cooperation with the Christian People's Party on alcohol policy, but now it hangs in a thin thread about the Right and the Advance Party has a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e527	Due to the work of the Health and Welfare Committee on drug treatment, there has been a lot of focus around, among other things. alcohol in recent years. In the report, to a large extent in the Committee's budget before Christmas and also in previous budgets, there is a great deal of concern about the need for a firm policy on alcohol. When a policy is determined, most people will think that this means that alcohol policy works as desired. In fact, alcohol consumption has increased by almost 50 pst. since the 1990s. That the number of people who smoke solid in Norway is still falling is very happy. This shows that knowledge, attitudes and trends play a role, and it shows us that there is no quick fix. Things take time, but it's possible to change, and knowledge does strong. Some naturally want to tighten up the smoking law as an explanation. Even I think it's a lot more complex. If there had been one answer to these questions, we would have had several easier everyday lives to solve health damage in terms of both nicotine, alcohol, drugs and obesity. When I think back to my youth, I'm reminded that even though we were a very big friend who did most things together, we made different choices. Good over half smoked. Of course, no one had any plans to become addicted, but most people did. Why did someone choose not to? Even I don't even remember why I chose to smoke. I started as far as 13 years old, but although I've been regretting it many times over the years, I really didn't want to stop. But many around me thought a lot about me smoking. I belong to the group of people who are provoked by others trying to control me. I was therefore dependent on wanting a change myself. Changing lifestyles to attract others rarely produces good results. As a parent, both I and my husband were told that all the research showed that our children would start smoking if they grew up with smoking parents. Fortunately, this was not the case. Our children never began to smoke. It brings me to another point: A family I knew had three children, born close to close. Both parents were overly thirsty – not in such a way that child protection was ever in the picture, but enough for their growing-up conditions to be clearly weakened. Two of the children developed even major drug problems, while the third has a completely natural relationship with alcohol and never took on other things. My point is that there are so many crazy reasons why people take the choices they make -- some because they practically learn it from their parents, some because their friends drink, others again because they feel it gives them strength, relaxation or a break from something that hurts. Most people who have serious alcohol problems can tell you that they started drinking very early, many in the 12th century. These children have not been exposed to advertising. Money to buy is strictly non-existent, and the availability is really going to be equal to zero. So all the instruments the majority focuses on do not work on those who get the most problems. For me, this is ultimately about knowledge and a society that cares, a society that sees the children and does something while they're still children and before abuse and addiction is a fact. Even when I was in my friend's company, I had thoughts about who of my friends would be okay, and who would get in trouble. I got right with most people. The signs were really very clear, despite the fact that they each had their own reason to humiliate themselves. So why don't we focus more on this? Alcohol is a legal commodity to which most people have a good relationship. We know that unwitting use or abuse does a great deal of damage to the individual and many others around him. Symbol policy such as not being able to buy beer the last hour of the store's opening hours is not the answer. But I support the importance of talking about passive drinking. Those who go through different programs and get help to stop drinking have in common that they carry a great deal of grief and feel shame for everything they've done to their neighbors. Communicating this in a better way, both before high consumption becomes a reality and while drinking most of the time, for some people, can make a difference. Saying that you're not just hurting yourself, but actually very many others, is important to communicate. The noise message focuses on passive drinking, and that's good. The answer lies in seeing the individual, getting on the track early, catching up those who fall out of school and work, dryly demanding a colleague that he or she should deal with his or her alcohol problem, that he or she has as a regular routine to monitor and follow up, and that people be given knowledge of the dangers and harms of his or her consumption.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e553	I want to give the interpellant praise first to bring up this topic. Alcohol policy in Norway has been in a blind zone for a long time. The fact that we have spent a great deal of time debating drug policy is natural, but the relative negation of alcohol problems is not in proportion to the problems this causes for the Norwegian community. In developed countries, alcohol is the third leading cause of loss of life for individuals. At the social level, the damage is even greater, with all the problems of abuse, addiction and excessive intoxication, as we see in families, hospitals and prisons, just to mention something. When we talk about limiting the damage to alcohol, we also have to bring with us the entire width. It is not only about preventing addiction but also about facilitating the responsible use of everyone with moderate consumption and the protection of third parties from harm. At the same time, there is reason to call for caution when the most regulatory politicians join forces with an exclusively target-oriented office, where results are the only factor needed to legitimize interference with people's freedom. Right-wing wants a moderate line in the alcohol policy, with restrictions limiting the adverse effects of alcohol, while recognising that alcohol policy must be liberal enough to maintain people's confidence and upkeep. We believe that the wine monopoly is important in Norwegian alcohol policy. It has served us well, but the legitimacy of the scheme has depended entirely on the modernisation of the pole, in terms of both service and availability. This is an example of the fact that liberalisation has served a policy that also limits the damage to alcohol in society. Public health policy must have legitimacy in the population; it is absolutely essential. For the right, it is therefore important that we also base public health policy and alcohol policy on central values. There must be a balance between freedom and regulation. We must also strengthen personal responsibility, which is mine. In this way, we can prevent the use of alcohol from unduly affecting third parties. Then we must also prevent coercive policies from affecting just unnecessary third parties. Therefore, we must try to set up policies in a way that captures, captures and reaches the risk groups primarily, both for treatment and prevention purposes. Therefore, it is not least for the Right that policy is knowledge-based. Moralist symbolism policy, which cares more about sending signals than achieving results, weakens confidence in this policy. As the review of the subject book ‘Alcohol: No Ordinary Commodity’ showed, it is very rare that measures to limit alcohol use in society are knowledge-based. Therefore, it is important not only to bet on measures that we know work, but also to dry to experiment, take mistakes and study exactly the interventions we are taking. I believe the representative of Højbräten is right in saying that the good results we have seen on smoking prevalence cannot be isolated from offensive policies in this area. There he has also been a central driver. It has served us well. But the parallel must not be drawn too far. The new tobacco plan calls for Norway to be a smoke-free society. It's a little bit lucky, because it can only be achieved with instruments that are deeply illiberal. A similar objective for alcohol would have been neither lucky nor desired by the people. Because we must remember that, while we see the results of restrictive reforms in tobacco policy, this has largely been measures that have won people's acceptance. We now see that the policy here is becoming less liberal and more and more involved in people's freedom. The results are not certain, but the provocation for many is obvious. It's important to warn against the guardianship. In the drug report, the government bombically states that ‘alcohol use is not a private matter’. In many cases it's true, but is it true in any case? The following is quoted in the same communication from the Declaration of Human Rights: ‘Freedom is the right to do all that does not harm other people’. It is an important reminder when the regulator becomes too big. Let's also remember that there are many of the public health challenges that are not solved by specific public health policies. The public health perspective is getting too sloppy in today's government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e584	First, I want to thank the interpellant for this interpellant. While we have experienced a decline in tobacco use in Norway, by 40 pst. In Norway, alcohol consumption has been increasing in the last ten years. This is a trend that is in conflict with the overriding political objective of reducing the average consumption of alcohol in the population. Alcohol is currently the most commonly used drug and causes most drug-related diseases and injuries. The Public Health Institute expects that 5 pst. the population is alcohol dependent. Alcohol use and alcohol-related harm is a major burden on Norwegian health services, police, legal services and social auxiliaries. It also affects working life. One third of the short-term absence and up to one fifth of the long-term absence comes from alcohol today. One calculates that up to 200,000 children in Norway suffer from their drug abuse. The interpellant suggests that action be taken more effectively in the alcohol field currently being used heavily in the tobacco field. I support the interpellant of this intention. But to be accepted for clearer regulation in the alcohol field, we also need to change society's attitudes to alcohol as a commodity. In particular, the attitudes of society to alcohol are important. There have been major changes in the past 50 years. Today, unlike tobacco, alcohol has become increasingly widely accepted and widely used as a commodity. While the tobacco-free zones are expanding, the number of non-alcoholic zones is decreasing. 40 pst. the consumption of alcohol is now occurring in work-related contexts, while tobacco use in the same settings is reduced. It is the same advertising ban on tobacco as for alcohol, but we never read product reviews and snorkeling when it comes to tobacco in the newspapers, so let 'the best snuff for Easter'. Alcohol, on the other hand, has become the most systematic product on the market for Norwegian media. According to a Blue Cross report, editorial alcohol reviews fill on average six days a week only in the four largest newspapers in Norway, i.e. VG, Today's Business, Evening Post and Daily Newspaper. We all know that it is easier to debate measures against tobacco use than to debate measures against alcohol. This I think is related to the fact that we have a different socio-economic pattern of alcohol use than of tobacco use. Alcohol consumption increases with increasing education and income, while the opposite is the case for smoking. Nevertheless, the number of those who become alcohol dependent in the high-income groups is lower when compared with those with low income and education. The higher social groups who drank more alcohol and who tolerate it better must, in solidarity with other social groups, respect the implementation of measures that work, as we have done for tobacco. One area where I think the alcohol field can learn from the tobacco field is labelling. Today, on tobacco products, we have clear warnings about the health damage caused by the product. In alcoholic goods, we do not accept any labelling at all. Alcohol is soon the only product we get bought legally today that does not even have a requirement for a content declaration. If you buy a cookie package, you get accurate information about ingredients and calories. If you buy alcohol, all information is missing. There is no information that the content can cause harm to the unborn child and is dangerous to combine with driving a car. We had not tolerated this for any other product, and we should no longer accept that the alcohol industry should escape so easily from it. It should not be a public task to provide consumers with the right and necessary product information. We need a national lift to change our grips and win back respect for alcohol as a significant factor in poor health. Business, employers’ and employers’ organisations, the media and voluntary organisations must be part of this team now. Clear role models are important, as Minister of Health Gahr Støre should be commended for having been in the past. Just before Christmas, he problemated the drinking of alcohol in Christmastime and the consequences of this have too many children. On Saturday’s NRK, many people also noticed his New Year’s plan — or new year’s thoughts — to be able to say no to alcohol in some situations. Today we treat tobacco and alcohol very differently in today's society. Tobacco is regulated while alcohol is idyllised. To succeed in getting a better understanding of the prevention of alcohol abuse, we need to take alcohol as a social phenomenon. We have to recognize that we're moving in groups when alcohol consumption changes in society, both when it decreases and when it increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e605	I want to start by thanking the interpellant, who puts this important interpellant on the agenda as to what lessons we can take from the fight against tobacco and transfer it to alcohol. I agree with the interpellant that there is a great difference between alcohol and tobacco. Therefore, the instruments must be different. We have succeeded in the fight against tobacco because you had a huge bundle of instruments. I also think that's what it takes for us to succeed in achieving the goal here. We are, as the representative Kjersti Toppe said, far from being a reduction in alcohol. I think there are two important lessons we can take with us from the fight against tobacco. Firstly, we need a knowledge-based policy. We know what works. We know that increased availability gives more consumption, we know through research that a reduction in opening hours will also lead to a reduction in the number of violence cases – Sirus believes it will result in a reduction of 17 pst. We have knowledge. I'm glad that Minister of Health Gahr Støre says we have the knowledge. Then we must also have the ability to act. That is a good starting point – a starting point we agree with. Secondly, I think we can take lessons from the fight against tobacco in terms of the damage that each person’s alcohol consumption causes to other people. This has to be weighted. We know that this weekend, we've been behind us, there's been too many children who have become angry because of their parents' use of alcohol. We also know that 97 pst. pregnant women agree that drinking alcohol in their pregnancy may lead to harm to the unborn child. All 84 pst. stop drinking alcohol completely when they know they are pregnant. But it is discouraging that only 71 pst. in the same study, the Health Directorate replied that the doctor/ midwife did not explain anything about this in the contact they had. We have knowledge, but this knowledge does not belong to pregnant women at an important time. Then we have to do something about this. The Christian People's Party is responsible for a solidarity policy in which the freedom of individuals must first be balanced against those who are directly struggling with drug problems themselves, and secondly against those who suffer indirectly because of the consumption of alcohol by others. That is the starting point of the Christian People's Party and our clear line in alcohol policy. I am pleased with the signal given by Minister of Health Gahr Støre in this inter-pellation debate on non-governmental organisations. The Health Minister pointed out the strength of the Cancer Association in the tobacco prevention work. I am happy to follow this further in terms of alcohol — how non-governmental organisations working in the alcohol field will be more listened to by governments and decision-makers, including in terms of financial support. We know that these things are connected – getting the strength to go out and meet, and being able to communicate wisely. Interpellant challenged the Minister for Health on a comprehensive knowledge-based strategy, with effective action. The council replied to the interpellant in terms of work and sports, and we got a little discussion about shift time. As the Council of State said, we are all responsible for the decisions we take. But the Storting itself is responsible for the fact that during this and the previous period we have not adopted a reduction in the normal time of donation. We have made concrete proposals to reduce the turn-out time to 0 p.m. 02, because we know that it will result in fewer cases of violence. The Christian People's Party has put forward proposals, but a majority, with the government at the head, has voted it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e622	I would also like to start by thanking the interpellant for putting an important theme on the agenda and for a good article. When the damage caused by alcohol use can be caused to third parties, it is something that also occupied me to a large extent, similar to the interpellant. Yesterday I visited the Borgestadklinikken in Skien, as among others. have special competence in the field of drugs, alcohol and alcohol. There is an immeasurably important effort to help pregnant people out of their drug habit and to prevent and limit the harm we know that the foetus can be exposed to due to drug abuse. In cooperation with the pregnant woman, they work to ensure a more optimal development environment for the child until birth. I'm glad that pregnancy is also part of the debate. To the general public health policy: the current detention campaigns against pregnant women, I think, are very important. My impression is also – in line with the representative hemdal refers to statistically – that the attitudes to this have changed over several years. It is also very good that Norwegian health authorities clearly recommend that pregnant women be totally excluded from pregnancy. I also know that one today has better routines than before for fixed and other health professionals when it comes to raising awareness and talking about the use of drugs in pregnancy. But, as Hemdal also refers to, this work must be further strengthened. I have great faith in a staggering work among children and young people. Especially important, as well as school, is the movement of sports. The sport is in contact with 80 pst. by young people and can be used even more for stagnating work. I want to underline the important work that sport does today, but that together we can get better. And then I'm going to label child protection. I'm very pleased with the focus the interpellant had on children in his post. Since 2010, the government has strengthened municipal child protection. A high level of child protection is crucial for the detection of young people living in a care environment in situations that are harmful to them. We know that in a great many of the issues that child protection is getting, it is about children who are exposed to parental dependence and drug use. Work is now under way to strengthen cooperation between kindergarten, school, police and health services. This important work must continue, and it is our government – the red-green – that will take the child-rescue lift further. I agree with the Christian People's Party in several areas of alcohol policy. The Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have a lot in common here, but between the Right and the Advance Party and us there is a big gap. I want to challenge the representative Højbräten on how he sees developments in this policy area – in a possible government where they will cooperate with the Right and the Progress Party. The liberalisation you see now, especially from the Progress Party, for example: opening up to the hall of spirits at gas stations, I am strongly opposed. To the extent that we now see the Christian People's Party orienting itself towards the blue camp, I think it is worrying, also because we may lose an important voice in this debate. So I would like to see the right-wing representative's reflections on this and if not such cooperation with the Right Party and the Advance Party would be able to lead the alcohol policy on a totally wrong course. Accessibility is and will be an important factor. Age limits, advertising bans and local policy opportunities to limit the number of punctures are some tools. When it comes to the tipping policy, I have a good example from my county, Telemark, where our biggest cities, Skien and Porsground, have established limitations in their timing. They've done it together. It has been an important success factor, as these cities are so close together. They did so in connection with a holistic policy plan, which includes: saw that this was necessary to do something about the problems of miscarriage and violence. In the municipality of Skien all the parties were some about this, except the Progress Party. This may be my small point at the end of the post: We see such great distances between the Labour Party – the Government Party – the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party that it must be a great challenge for the Christian People's Party to plan a cooperation with the Right and the Advance Party in the alcohol policy field. There are a number of instruments that need to be used at the same time in order for us to have an impact on public health policy. I think it's important to ensure cross-sectoral effort. We have to make it easy for people to make healthy choices. I really look forward to the coming public health announcement and think it is very important that we engage in this important work in cross-political terms – also across the trade committees here in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e647	As many people have been involved, I will also commend the representative Høybräten for the interpellation – the representative Høybräten, who will be permanently linked to the smoking law, with the outstanding positive results it has given. Now, however, the point is the consumption of alcohol. Alcohol consumption has increased. The theme is how we can learn from the work on tobacco damage in this work. Several have said, not least the Council of State, that it is more complicated, that international cooperation is required and that ‘timing’ is required. Yeah, it's a lot harder, I totally agree. Nevertheless, the Institute of Public Health underlines the importance of keeping consumption down. As we know, any good democratic strategy is based on a common sense of reality. It's probably a common sense of reality for those who understand the most of the issues, that for public health it's important to keep alcohol consumption down, so reduce it. So the sense of reality should be clear. For us as leaders, it's important that we say it clearly, and that we can practice it. I have to say that after almost 12 years here at Stortinget, it is incredibly important for a matter representative how one acts in all contexts. In my experience, after eleven years in the Financial Committee, the alcohol tax policy has been so deliberately organised for increased consumption of wine, at the expense of beer and spirits. This is a subject that I think should be discussed. The result is that wine is soon as natural for dinner as milk is natural for lunch. Wine is now in the hands of opinion-makers and people most attributable to alcohol and is therefore in a way better alcohol than other alcohol. Some look ups give the wine the credit for getting a better public health. We're in a situation where there's clearly social teams that drink wine rather than beer and spirits. Many with good income and strong, positive social networks drink the most wine, in my opinion. The result is that alcohol, in the form of wine, in broad, tone-setting circuits has almost become a norm – for dinner and as a drink in front of the TV in the evening. It is important to discuss this position, this change in culture — as a result of, among other things, the wine levy policy – is good. As leaders, we are role models. For others to stand up and say no to alcohol when it is served should become natural, and for those who then want alcohol to ask for it, instead of saying no. In public terms, it should at least be quite natural. You world how many times must I say no to alcohol during a longer dinner – unless the waiter is very observant! Should it not be so, at least in public terms, that those who see it as natural to have alcohol, which is okay for me, ask it, that it is the norm, not that I have to say no and many times get wrong – wine – in the glass and the wine must be carried out? There is, in my opinion, a lot of talk about leaders and role models. What have we gradually developed with regard to our colleges and universities? Well, for the students entering colleges and universities, it's the first month an activity related to alcohol that provides the basis for a behavior that I can't understand is positive. This has intensified since the time I was a student. That's why both the headmasters and the principals have a conscious responsibility to create a different type of activity when students come, than what is developing today. That's a lot one could say. It is essential that we have leaders who are role models here and that we have a public policy that facilitates both marketing, restriction of availability and high price – instruments that we know work. But the essential thing in this article was us as role models in the case of wine. There's something that needs to be changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e668	First of all, I have to join those who praise the interpellant. There was no bad end-interpellation in the Storting today, I really want to say that. The reason given, I hope I get a bigger impact field than just us sitting here in the hall – it was very good. I can sign that analysis – one hundred percent! I am also pleased that we have a Health Council that so eagerly and dedicatedly highlights the public health aspect and the importance of prevention. This debate is more important than just alcohol policy, in my opinion. Alcohol policy is particularly important. There is a dimension in it – towards the political work in Norway – that I believe is absolutely crucial in the future. Should we continue to participate in a billion-dollar race on how to spend as much money as we can on both the one and the other, and should we continue with a race where we largely beat each other with arguments about who will fix the best, prevention will lose. The question is really: how are we going to be able to promise prevention to become the political field in which we are really being tested, whether we are state councils or representatives of big business, and where are the waiting lists against prevention being measured? All young people now mentioned – 200,000 young people in Norway report being horrified at festivals. It's a annoying waiting list. For those politicians who may be concerned with guardianship in this context: Where is the guardianship of these 200 000 children? What kind of freedom are they after – the freedom to celebrate Christmas in the usual way, as you see the neighbor boy experience, the freedom to avoid being a victim of violence? Who are carers in that aspect? We need to talk about that. This guardianship and that freedom is what this political debate invites to decide – and it is high time. It is high time that there were policy instruments here that in many respects cost nothing. I have experience of my time in government, when we saw that youth crime in Oslo went down considerably – and it continues to do so. What's the reason for that? Is that because more money has been allocated to the Oslo Police District? No, not just that. This is primarily because the Municipality of Oslo, the Oslo Police Department and many other actors have thought about active prevention. It is a free policy with many good effects. The violence in the middle of town in Trondheim has gone down by 30-40 pst. What's the reason for that? Is it because you've been busting with money and reparative measures? No, it's because you've tightened up your timing and done some other measures as well. There has been a massive decline in fireworks in this country over the past few years – which many can see as curious, and which we are discussing on New Year's Day – because the sticks of the New Year's rockets have been removed. It was free to do that. It is a kind of policy in which I believe we need to invest more in political excellence. I must also say that I think the representative Schou from the Right made a very good contribution. I think we have to allow ourselves to ask about the legitimacy of that. It is quite clear that the Vinmonopolet has great legitimacy in Norway because it has expanded the service aspect. But the interpellant – and that’s probably the only thing I have to peck at when it comes to his posts – described it as some unpopular grip. Many of the interventions against alcohol policy are more popular than we know. Opinion polls have been conducted around the hamlet time, whether you're going to tighten up by one hour, which the municipality has the power to do, and 60-70 pst. of Norway’s population supports it — even if it should be a state regime. So sometimes we're a little bit too modest on behalf of the population, because most people are at home at that time. I think we're going to dry to take hold of this to a greater extent than what we're doing today. It is no secret that I am a follower of tightening up the hamlet. I believe that this is the most effective action you can take to increase police force, to create more security and to contribute to raising the prevention aspect. I want to challenge the government and the Minister of Health that public health reports that one year – 2013 – is used to see how municipalities set up their policies, see if you follow the initiative of the Council of State and all that we have of research, and that after 2013, you allow yourself to review whether you have to change the state framework when it comes to donation. It is a concrete proposal that might trigger the debate, for this debate should be kept up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e687	It's been a very interesting debate. It's quite obvious that the Storting is going into this thematic with a great deal of seriousness and a great deal of commitment. This applies to all lots. I would especially like to thank you for that. I'll ask everyone outside this hall to notice it. Then I find that there is a broad consensus on a stronger focus on passive drinking, and that with certain constraints, which are common to many, we have much to learn from what we have achieved in terms of tobacco consumption in this country. I would once again like to thank the Council of State for his willingness to go heavily into the matter of non-alcoholic zones in working life and sport. I look forward to that. I would ask him to pay special attention to the challenges he has received not only from the Christian People's Party today, but also recently from former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget. Here I don't have to add or subtract anything. What he said, speaks to the greatest extent for himself and should be emphasized by the government. The same is true of what was said by the Central Party here today, by the representatives of Toppe and Lundtigen. With regard to restrictive measures, such as give-times, alcoholics, labelling of products, etc., it is a bit of a feeling that there are happy Ibsen's words that apply: think it, wish it, and would – but to do so, is probably the real test for policy. I just want to say that it has a certain cost to stand up for measures that do not immediately fall into the taste of opinion, but which are obviously right if you are responsible for reducing disease and health problems and premature death in this country. But if you can do it in a knowledge-based way, you're guaranteed results that people like. That is probably the most important lesson that I think we should take with us from the field of tobacco policy. Therefore, my appeal to the Council of State is that he let action follow words. Then he has a unique opportunity to show that in the field of alcohol policy, the Christian People's Party gets more out of the government now sitting than a government dominated by the Right and the Advance Party. He has some months to show that he can deliver results that the Right Party and the Advance Party are not willing to deliver, based on what has been said on the part of these parties. I hope he will take advantage of the occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e700	It is natural for the dynamics of the political debate that the representative Højbråten addresses these questions to me, but I think it is interesting that he did not have one visit to the representatives of the Progress Party or the Right regarding the analysis of alcohol. I believe that already here the answer lies, with a different approach, based on what we have heard from the representatives in this Chamber. I won't go into that debate. The representative from the Progress Party has a good contribution on his own experience – I think it is good that we offer ourselves here – but it is very much up to the individual to make choices. Everyone agrees. But the individual also lives in a context, in a society that sets boundaries, sets goals and has standards, and there I feel that the Progress Party is waving away, if I have to say it like that, and calls it symbolism policy. I don't agree with that. I also believe that it is too defensive from the representative of Schou in her analyses. She thinks it's gone too far, that there's been too much symbolism policy. She's asking for knowledge-based policies. She asks to experiment with solutions. I'm in favour of both. But when it comes to the measures, she's skeptical. I believe that this picture is not uninteresting when discussing policy in Norway in an important area, because there are quite different approaches here. I see few differences between the representative's views and those we have in the government. I see pretty big differences the other way. The representative Heimdal said interesting things about volunteering. Let me put it this way: yes, we will listen to the volunteers in the alcohol field, but also to those outside, i.e. to organisations that do not primarily work with alcohol or drug issues, but are important actors in society – such as sports and cultural organisations that organise many people, and where one can also make a conscious choice about alcohol. We see that the political youth organisations are making choices about alcohol: not alcohol at events. These are important signals. I can confirm that it's in the supervisor of doctors and midwives that they're going to report the alcohol damage to pregnant women, and I think it's important, as the representative says. I take it that we should follow it up properly, so that the supervisor is followed. The starting point for the debate was the desire of the representative, Højbråten, to draw lessons from tobacco policy. I'd like to stop where we started, because that's a good point. We now see that these themes, which are slightly different – but let's not exaggerate it – are also related. We've seen in the latest study on the disease images in the world how these two, tobacco and alcohol, are now going past major diseases in the infectious area and contribute more to disease and death than HIV/AIDS. Clearly, knowledge-based policies in this area will require quite clear instruments. The proposal by my good friend and colleague, Mr Storberget, to follow the consequences of different giving times is a good one, and I have opinions that are not far from the representative's. We're going to follow this closely and see what's going on, and how to get back to it. But all in all, yes, we can learn from tobacco policy, and we can put all these questions more centrally on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e717	Case No. 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-15.ana.ud1080e730	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
