ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e117	The representatives Dagfinn Høybråten and Thor Erik Forsberg, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: by the Group of the European People's Party on sick leave for the representative of Mr Richmor Andersen Eide from 12 February onwards and until further notice by the Group of the Right on sick leave for the representative of Mr Henning Warloe from 12 February onwards and until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For the county of Hordaland: Ragnhild Stolt-NielsenFor the counties of More and Romesdal: Steinar Reiten
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e158	Ragnhild Stolt-Nielsen and Steinar Reiten are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e164	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e174	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e188	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e200	I would first like to draw attention to the fact that the statement can extend for a few minutes over an hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e205	The regulatory period is up to one hour, but the President will propose, on the basis of the first paragraph of Section 50 of Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure, that the Foreign Minister may exceed the speaking time of one hour by the required number of minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e208	We live in a time of breaking, a time of global change in power and influence. It's about the shift of power between states – from old powers to emerging powers. It is also about the movement of power – from countries to a number of non-governmental actors. The purpose of Norwegian foreign policy is to contribute to stability and predictability in its own neighbourhoods and to ensure Norwegian interests and values in a rapidly changing world. As a small and open economy, Norway is particularly dependent on strong international standards, institutions and driving rules. Binding international cooperation is a prerequisite for fully realising our economic, political and cultural potential. Working for a better organized world is therefore in Norwegian self-interest. We share this idea with many other states. In order to safeguard Norwegian interests in a good way, we must, to the best of our ability, understand the world we are part of and how it evolves. We have to understand what the changes mean for us. Our efforts need to be coordinated and further developed in the light of this. A statement is not a directory of everything we are engaged in. I have chosen to raise some areas that I believe are of particular importance. I would also like to stress that three key issues of Norwegian foreign policy will not be addressed in depth in this statement: EU/EEA issues, UN policy and Norway’s involvement in Afghanistan will be fully addressed in the spring. Traditional power structures are changing. The relative influence of the West is being reduced, not primarily because of economic stagnation in Europe and the United States – although all we have to assume is a passing phenomenon – but because others are growing faster: countries in Asia, in Latin America and increasingly in Africa. It is difficult to fully predict what kind of international order we will face in the years to come. Maybe we'll see something that's completely new, something that can't be described with used terms. New dynamics and new alliances are being created, with which new interdependencies and new contradictions arise. At the same time, traditional power poles and alliances remain both relevant and important. In a less Western-dominated world, therefore, it is at least as important as before that we further develop our European and transatlantic ties. The influence of emerging actors on the world are increasing, but it is still unclear whether they will fill the vacuum of power generated by the weakening of the importance of traditional actors. A new geopolitical picture changes Norway’s space for action. An important objective is to link us more closely to the broader processes that are taking place in Asia, Latin America and Africa. This applies to cooperation with regional forums as well as bilateral contacts with individual countries. All of this is crucial for the design of modern Norwegian foreign policy. Similarly, there is a need to take into account that events that take place far from geographically can have direct consequences for Norwegian interests and values. For this is also a feature of our time: Events far from Norway can hit us harshly and brutally. The attack on the In Amenas gas production plant in Algeria in January was a dramatic reminder of this. Norwegian citizens, Norwegian business and Norwegian interests were directly affected by international terrorism. It also became citizens from many other countries. Explanations of the emergence of international terrorism are many and complex. Terrorism and extremism must therefore be combated by a wide range of instruments, as the Prime Minister explained before 23 January this year. In addition, the terrorist action in Algeria and its handling had many foreign policy dimensions: it was in the consular area — which has always been the basis of the international service — where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ crisis management apparatus, along with other Norwegian authorities, Bisto Statoil and the Norwegians who were affected. The terrorist action focused on our increasingly internationalised business and on how the Norwegian authorities can best assist – in safety assessments, in authority contact and in food promotion. Many Norwegian companies — and workers — work in countries where the risk is higher than in Norway. The risk can never be zero. For this reason, together the Norwegian authorities and Norwegian companies must ensure the best possible care for Norwegian interests and citizens. The same applies to a wide range of Norwegian organisations and to the Nordics in international activities. At the same time, we need to be aware that Norwegian companies themselves decide where to establish themselves and that the host country’s authorities are responsible for ensuring the security of international business interests – and others who live in the country. On a deeper level, the terrorist action in Algeria also puts the spotlight on our efforts to combat extremism. This has long been at the heart of Norwegian policy in the Middle East and North Africa, in our engagement policy with new groupings in the wake of the Arab Spring, in our support for vulnerable states with weak state structures, and also in our efforts to promote democracy, human rights and international humanitarian law. In a rapidly changing world, we need to be able to think anew, find new answers, new partners and build new alliances. At the same time, our policies must be firmly anchored in values and principles that are lasting over time. Firstly, it concerns the relationship between countries, which must be based on an international legal order, expressed by international law. Secondly, there are some basic principles on how countries should deal with their citizens. Promoting human rights and democracy is at the heart of government's foreign policy priorities. We therefore advocated a significant increase in measures for a more offensive human rights policy in the year's budget. One of the main objectives is to strengthen freedom of expression and thus the development of open, democratic societies around the world. Freedom of expression is a fundamental human right – a prerequisite for the realisation of other human rights. In concrete terms, Norway supports measures such as the design of democratic media, censorship, promotion of independent media and support for journalistic working conditions in many countries. The government supports Norwegian and international organisations and their local partners working to strengthen freedom of expression and independent media — not least in many Middle East countries. Protection of minorities has been particularly central to the government's work on human rights in the last year. The treatment of minorities is often a clear indication of the functioning of democracy in a society. In our minority project, we have a special focus on beliefs and beliefs that are subject to increasing discrimination and persecution. We continue close and good cooperation with committed and knowledge-rich organisations in Norway – and their contact areas. The situation of minorities of faith and life is regularly raised at political level. We systematically use the UN, the Council of Europe and the OSCE to tackle discrimination and persecution. During the reviews of the UN Human Rights Council, we address the situation of religious minorities. In cooperation with the UN Special Rapporteur on Faith and Life View, we will be organising an international conference in Norway on minorities under pressure this spring. Norway is in dialogue with the Minority Rights Group organisation on a project to strengthen the competence of activists in the Middle East on minority rights. Through the IDEA Democracy Organisation and the Venezia Commission, we support constitutional work focusing on the rights of minorities – again – in the Middle East, and we support actions under the auspices of the Norwegian Helsinki Committee, to mention only something. It is important to say about and protest against human rights violations. We do that, and we're going to do that. But I would warn against an approach to human rights work that settles down on the protest itself, which assumes that as soon as we have raised a matter, we have done ours. Long-term work in this field requires involvement and intervention in the processes and places where the important choices are actually made, such as: in support of constitutional work, security sector reform or strengthening the position of the judiciary in the country of conversion. The size has now to be treated Report. St. 33 for 2011–2012 on Norway and the United Nations. It places great emphasis on the normative role of the UN — particularly in the field of human rights. Norway has good experience of continuing in peace and reconciliation. One example is in Colombia. Colombian government and FARC launched peace negotiations in Norway last October, after six months of exploratory dialogue organised by Norway and Cuba. It is gratifying that the process enjoys broad international support and that the UN plays a role, in particular through consultations with Colombian civil society. Norway, together with Cuba, will continue to assist the parties to the Havana negotiations. At the same time, we must remember that Colombia's government and the FARC bear the primary responsibility for finding a negotiated solution to the conflict, and we must remember that such processes always take time. The exposure in Colombia is a good illustration of Norway’s general approach to peace and reconciliation. We work long-term through diplomatic efforts, support to the UN, to non-governmental organisations and research communities. It is absolutely vital to build trust and trustworthiness. The government will continue to prioritise this work. It is right in a normative perspective – because when we succeed, life and suffering are saved – and Norwegian interests serve to settle conflicts in the world. It is therefore an important foreign policy work in itself, but it is also relevant to show what Norway is doing to other countries, such as Norway. in Latin America – many of whom, like Brazil, are now strengthening their influence globally. Overall, Latin America is experiencing significant economic growth, a better spread of wealth and a reduction in poverty. Among the reasons for this, according to the World Bank, are better education for workers, higher employment and more women entering the labour force. This year, 100 years have passed since women gained general voting rights in Norway, as the third country in the world. Our experience in the field of equality is demand for capital, including in our foreign policy. Internationally, the government strengthens efforts for equality and women's rights through our work in international forums as well as bilaterally through concrete cooperation projects. For many years, Norway has been at the forefront of the global gender equality agenda — now under pressure globally. In particular, there are issues related to sexual and reproductive health. We are therefore stepping up this work in the light of the fact that conservative environments from different communities find each other in the fight against rights we thought we could take for granted in our time. In Pakistan, a brave schoolgirl, the then 14-year-old Malala Yousufzai, was shot and tried to kill. In India, a young woman died of injury after a gang violence. The events upset an entire world. Girls and women are hit by brutal violence. International work on their rights must therefore be strengthened. At the same time, we're going to enjoy people reacting loudly. Again, we see that new social media are being actively used – as an international voice – to channel people's reactions and demand action from political groups. Violence against women is a main theme of the Women's Commission's meeting in New York next month. Norway shall continue to play a driving role here. We also do that with regard to the importance of combating sexualised violence and rape in war. In addition, Norway is the leader in international work to ensure that everyone is entitled to the same human rights regardless of sexual orientation and gender identity. Sexual minorities are often subjected to violence and discrimination. In April, together with the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, we are organising a major international conference on this theme in Oslo. Norway shall continue to be a driver in the follow-up to United Nations Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security — and related decisions in NATO, where Norwegian Mari Skare was last designated as the first Special Representative for this field by the Alliance. Norway is working towards a step forward in Resolution 1325 by strengthening effective female participation in conflict prevention and peace-building. The Arab Spring is an example of one of the deepest and most fundamental upheavals of our time. In many ways we're talking about a revolution. As with all the other revolutions, it will take many years for us to be able to fully establish our status. Again, we see that power is being shifted, and that old patterns are being challenged – not only in politics and governance, but also cultural and social, and between generations. Autocratic family dynasties in the Middle East are falling. In some countries, the first steps towards participation and democracy are taken. Elsewhere we see that the road is extremely thorny. In Syria, it goes from bad to worse. What started out as peaceful protests against a brutal regime has today been exasperated by a bloody civil war. Despite strong regional involvement, the international community has not managed to gather around joint efforts to put an end to violence. The situation is deeply tragic, and there are few signs of a quick solution. The UN estimates that over 60,000 people are killed, four million need emergency aid, more than 700,000 have fled, and over two million are internally displaced. The outlook for improving the situation of the civilian population is low as long as the conflict is ongoing. The regime's violent abuse of power against the population is increasing. The combatants are in violation of basic humanitarian principles and rules of warfare on a daily basis. The population and humanitarian aid personnel are exposed to calculated attacks. It makes the work of helping the affected inside Syria very difficult. It is essential that Norway and the international community continue to put pressure on humanitarian access and protection partners in all parts of Syria. Norway is also among the largest humanitarian contributors. From the Norwegian side, it is a priority task to prevent the regional spread of the conflict. Our assistance, not least for Lebanon's handling of Syrian refugees, is designed to prevent the presence of refugees from triggering latent conflicts and thus destabilising the country. Norway's clear position is that President Assad has lost all legitimacy and must leave. In today’s situation, Norway considers the National Coalition to be the legitimate representative of the Syrian people. Norway supports the Syrian opposition forces working together within the national coalition, politically and through cooperation projects. Respect for humanitarian principles, human rights and minority rights is as clear for the opposition as for the regime forces. Although the coalition was a progress, it's a long way to go until we have a complete and united opposition with the ability to take over power and secure a stable and orderly way out of chaos. There are also a number of actors, inside and outside Syria, who take advantage of the situation to promote objectives that are not in the long-term interest of the Syrian people. Norway supports the mission of the United Nations and the Arab League, Lakhdar Brahimi, in his efforts to seek a basis for a political solution. But more than anything else, it is the special responsibility of the members of the UN Security Council to bring to an end the civil war and the humanitarian suffering in Syria. It is important to remind the Security Council that their responsibility for international peace and security is a responsibility they manage on behalf of all UN Member States. It's time for the Security Council to take that responsibility. It is also important that concrete plans are now made for what we do on the day the conflict itself is over, given both the extent of the damage and the strong internal tensions that the conflict has intensified. A particular concern is related to what happens to the assumed large stocks of chemical weapons in Syria. For Egypt, last year was turbulent, and the unrest continues. The June presidential election, the dissolution of Parliament and the constitutional process, combined with economically demanding times, have created discontent and frustration and have brought many Egyptians back into the streets. Norway has a close dialogue with the Egyptian authorities. Norwegian aid has escalated and is mainly intended to strengthen the development of democracy: support for free press, civil society and to safeguard women's rights. We have made it clear that all Egyptians must have the same rights, regardless of gender or religious affiliation – including the Coptic population. We encourage all parties in Egypt to moderate. The close contact we have established over several years, not least with the Muslim Brotherhood, enables us to take up with weight the problematic and worrying features of the development of today's rulers in Cairo. The Egyptian government played a central role in bringing Israel and Hamas to a truce in Gaza last year. Egypt’s willingness and ability to play a positive role in the region is encouraging. On 29 November last year, as you know, Palestine was granted a large majority of observer status in the UN General Assembly. On the basis of the resolution, the government has decided that we are now talking about what we have previously called the Palestinian Territory, such as Palestine. As head of the donor country group for Palestine, AHLC, we are following developments in the Middle East particularly closely. The next meeting will be held in Brussels in March, and it will be important. The economy of the Palestinian authorities is in deep crisis. The donor contribution last year was lower than expected and contributed to an increase in the debt burden of the Palestinians. We notice a dawning yield fatigue in the international community. Large resources and a lot of work are devoted to building up a manageable Palestinian authority. As the leader of the AHLC, Norway is working to secure the resources necessary to prevent economic collapse. The truce in Gaza is still fragile. At the same time, there seems to be a growing recognition, including in Israel, that an improved security situation in and around Gaza has a clear link with economic development. Armistice, Israeli relief in the decommissioning regime and expansion of the fishing zone are good, but more is needed to achieve economic stability and growth. At the same time, Israel continues the development of illegal settlements on occupied land. They're international lawless, they're undermining the possibility of peace and they're threatening the entire two-state solution. After a time when the peace process has been completely locked down, after elections and government formations in the United States and Israel, new attempts will now be made to revive the process. Norway will actively support this. A prerequisite for success is that the Palestinian Authority continues to function. As a result of the major upheavals in the region, Norway’s involvement in northern Africa has been strengthened. Developments in several countries are now at a crucial stage, with the creation of new constitutions that will provide the basis for more democratic political systems. In order to succeed in this fragile situation, both authorities and civil society need external support, in particular for empowerment measures. The emergence of moderate political movements, with or without anchoring in Islamic faith, is an important part of the picture. In several countries, we also see a emergence of radical political Islamism, and an increasing number of young people are attracted to militant groupings. Together with other countries, we will continue to support vulnerable migration processes in North African countries to ensure democratisation, fundamental rights and better living conditions in the long term. We are now strengthening contact with the countries of the region, including with a view to addressing security challenges. The Sahel countries have long been marked by poverty, political unrest, porous borders and organised crime in the form of trafficking in human beings and drug trafficking, arms and goods. The region is also severely affected by climate-induced food crises. The collapse of the Gaddafi regime in Libya also appears to have contributed to the crisis in Mali. Lead soldiers brought weapons, returned home, and fed the long-standing conflict between the peoples of northern Mali and the government of Bamako. In March 2012, Northern Mali came under the control of Islamist insurgents with connections to Al Qaida and organized crime. The insurrection in turn triggered a military coup in Bamako that threw the country into a political crisis. This further weakens the country’s ability to address the safety challenges in the north. North Mali could be developed as a haven for international terrorist networks with foregleams to Al Qaida, North Africa, and other groups in Africa that threaten regional and western interests – i.e. a development against serious cross-border security threats that the world community is difficult to deal with. An international African force, AFISMA, was mandated by the United Nations Security Council on 20 December 2012 by Resolution 2085 to launch a military intervention to assist the Malian authorities in regaining control throughout their territory. On 11 January, France intervened against an immediate threat from the Islamic uprisings in Northern Malta. The operation took place at the request of the President of Mali and was supported by the UN Security Council and many African countries. Algeria authorised the use of its airspace. French efforts are scheduled to be stepped down as soon as African forces are in place and are able to take over management. And this is exactly what's important. I believe that the time of the great Western intervention is over after Iraq and Afghanistan. In a country like Mali, a long-standing and high-profile Western military presence could be counterproductive. You just risk strengthening the enemy images that Al Qaida is trying to build up. Therefore, the solutions must lie in the region. It believes the UN Security Council, it believes the African Union and it believes ECOWAS, the economic community of the West African States. I discussed possible responses to the Mali crisis during my meetings with the African Union in Addis Ababa just before Christmas. However, it may take time for an African force to be able to fight. The safety forces of Mali must be brought into operational condition. A French proposal to turn AFISMA into a peacekeeping UN operation as soon as conditions permit is discussed right now in the UN Security Council. Norway supports such a proposal. In this case, such a UN force will continue to be composed mainly of African components, while opening up to non-African contributions. If such a UN force becomes effective, the government will decide on possible Norwegian participation, and the Stortinget will be consulted in line with usual practice. The EU is working to put in place a training and training team in Mali – EUTM. Norway will give priority to any UN-led operation and thus will not contribute to this EU force. Faced with the challenges in Mali and Sahel, we need a broad strategy with a whole range of instruments – political and economic. Norway supports the efforts of the UN and regional organisations to help local authorities in Mali and the region to combat poverty, strengthen governance and take care of their own security. The government has just decided to add up to $30 million. to the United Nations Fund for Mali, which is additional to the annual Norwegian aid of approximately 80 million. kr to the country. We are continuously assessing further contributions in close dialogue with the authorities, the UN and other donors. Far south on the continent continues the tragedy in the eastern Congo and around the large seas. A human drama has been unfolding for years, largely away from the daily search for light from the world's media and the international political agenda. This is one of the many so-called forgotten conflicts that we, as an international society, must have stronger impetus in our collective consciousness. Eight states in the region have recently reached agreement on a stability plan in the Democratic Republic of Congo that the United Nations has put in place. Norway supports this work. It would be totally wrong, however, if it were now created a notion that Africa is a continent dominated by crises and misery. It's actually longer from the truth today than in a very long time. Overall, Africa has been the second fastest growing part of the world in the last ten years. Of the 20 fastest growing economies in the world today, eleven are African. Growth has been driven by increased political stability and economic reforms. Increased diversity in economic cooperation and trade with several parts of the world, not least with Asian countries, have made several African countries more robust to fluctuations in the world economy. In fact, there is a basis for considerable optimism. Several countries have experienced marked rises in key indicators, such as: Public health. A number of African governments show an enhanced willingness and ability to address their own challenges. More and more people are making democratic elections. Addis Ababa in Ethiopia, where the African Union has its head office, is increasingly seen as Africa's political capital. This also contributes to more effective regional decisions and access to continent decision-makers. In order for growth to be sustainable, it is important that it be invested in and traded with African countries. Because in the long run, there is little doubt that trade is even more important than assistance. I am pleased to note that the Norwegian business community has discovered the great opportunities Africa holds, and that a number of companies consider increased involvement. Increased macroeconomic stability and a more nutritious policy in many African countries, as well as better education and a high level of labour, are conducive to further growth. Norway has a clear interest in supporting the positive forces that are working to combat poverty and the deep conflicts that still characterise some African countries. Our own continent, Europe, is also experiencing a break-up. Last year's worst predictions for Europe, the euro area and the euro area did not come true. Despite weak economic developments, confidence in the euro has been strengthened in markets, much thanks to untraditional measures taken by the European Central Bank. The EU has taken a number of concrete decisions – such as the repayment of emergency loans to Greece and the development of a banking union for the euro area and other interested EU countries. European leaders have demonstrated their willingness to defend the euro. Borrowing costs for countries such as Spain and Italy are significantly reduced. Long-term reform programmes are implemented in all crisis countries. The Council of the European Union has agreed that 11 countries are working on a common tax on financial transactions under the enhanced cooperation procedure. It may also affect Norway. But even if a lot goes in the right direction, the crisis has set very deep tracks. Long-term debt building in many countries, macroeconomic imbalances in the euro area and rigidity in the adaptability of the economy will take time to see results. In addition, significant challenges arise as a result of demographic changes in Europe. It is necessary to have a long-term perspective, because in the short term, the real economic outlook is slim. Several countries have zero growth or decline in production. What began as a financial crisis has become a unemployment crisis. The availability of the euro area is increasing, not least among young people. Weak growth, high unemployment and high debt will continue to be experienced by many countries, both within and outside the euro area. In many places, differences are also increasing. The Secretary-General of the OECD, José Ángel Gurría, is one of many who warns against this. Increasing inequality contributes both to political instability and to poor macro-economy. For Norway, developments in Europe are very important. If demand for our goods fails, this has consequences for the economy and employment. Therefore, an economic policy that allows for rapid action and intervention in such a situation is crucial, and there is something the government intends to do. In April Norway is the host of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) European Regional Assembly in Oslo. It is part of the follow-up to the government's strategy for decent work. Norway shall strengthen its efforts for workers’ rights and cooperation with the ILO shall be given a boost. The meeting will bring together 500 participants under the theme ‘Workplaces, Growth and Social Justice’. Norway is also appointed to chair the Ministerial Council meeting of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD, in Paris at the end of May. We will thus also have an influence on this agenda, and we will focus on the subjects I mentioned, on the ILO collection: growth, jobs and social justice. In times of crisis, democracy is put under pressure. The darkest chapters of European history show the link between economic crisis and political instability. At the same time, democracy, human rights and the rule of law are strong in today's Europe. We see, however, that the challenges on our own continent are increasing. Minorities are also put under pressure here. Antisemitism, Islamophobia and various forms of racism have come to the surface more clearly. We also have painful experience here at home through the attack on 22 July 2011. The picture in Europe is complex, but we see extra-right currents intensifying in several places, preferably with a backstop of hateful utterances channelled through online communities and social media. In this form of extremism, excluding nationalism and attacks on minorities are important driving forces. High rectorism leaps out of Europe's majority society and has deep and long roots for political violence on our own continent. We also see other forms of political extremism – such as jihadism – that have destructive power. Norway is part of the European picture. We need more knowledge and broader analysis. We need to follow developments closely. We will take responsibility by contributing to raising the issue on the political agenda in Europe. We have therefore established a concrete project to coordinate and strengthen Norway's contribution to the protection of democracy, minority rights and the fight against right-wing extremism in Europe. Europe’s leading defence against extremism is the binding European cooperation developed after the Second World War — in the EU, in the Council of Europe, in the OSCE and in NATO. The core of this is belief in democracy, the rule of law, fundamental human rights as well as open and tolerant societies. In the times we are going through, the government considers it particularly important to strengthen the defence of these principles – at home, in Europe and globally – and against anyone who wants to undermine them. Norway should lead the fight against increased intolerance, hateful expressions and right-wing extremism in Europe. I will mention two measures in this context: Through the EEA funds, Norway has established a comprehensive framework agreement with the Council of Europe. In cooperation, we look at challenges related to fundamental rights, justice, the protection of minorities and the fight against intolerance and hateful expressions. Through the EEA funds, we are also among the most important contributors to civil society in the central European EU countries. More than 1.1 billion. programmes for voluntary organisations for projects capable of strengthening democratic values and human rights, measures to combat hateful expressions, racism, anti-semitism and homophobia. In Romania and Bulgaria, 10 pst. by the EEA funds are linked to measures taken by the space people. The aim is to improve living conditions, to strengthen integration and to combat discrimination. We also strengthen Norway's cooperation with the Council of Europe and the work on democracy and human rights in the OSCE, which is the forum in which Norwegian parliamentarians also participate. Some countries are in focus. In Ukraine, more developments raise concerns. The imprisonment of former Prime Minister Timoshenko and other former members of the Government gives the impression of selective prosecution. A party with a strong nationalistic agenda has wind in its sails. The parliamentary elections seem to be a step backwards in the country's democratic development. A legislative proposal has been put forward to make the situation of sexual minorities even more difficult. Norway has clearly expressed its concern about all such developments — most recently during the visit of its Prime Minister to Norway last November. The development of Belarus – Europe’s last dictatorship – is discouraging and worrying. Together with the international community, Norway continues to exert pressure. We are in line with the EU sanctions regime, and we are continuing concrete financial support for the promotion of democracy and human rights. In economic development, Azerbaijan has made important progress, but progress is still unevenly distributed, and much remains before it fully fulfils its human rights and democracy obligations. From the Norwegian side, we will continue to communicate our views on developments in the country, and we support measures to contribute to respect for fundamental rights. I'm going to take a long run – to the north! When the government parties presented Soria Moria I in 2005, we decided that the northern regions would be Norway’s main strategic area – not one of several, but the most important. Very much has happened in both Norwegian and international north-eastern policies since then. The northern regions are on the international political map. In the first place, the job focused on raising international interest and attention on the development of the Arctic. In the next round we had probably achieved this, but now it became important to counteract an impression of the Arctic as an area of rivalry and strife. Not long ago you could get this impression through international media. The truth is that we are working systematically to establish a unified understanding of the fundamental rules and institutions that must underpin peaceful, constructive cooperation in the north. We have also succeeded, and there we are today. A good framework is in place. All countries in the region agree to both the establishment of the law of the sea and the strengthening of Arctic Councils — to mention two of the main factors. That is why we are now at the beginning of a new chapter in the north, a chapter that is more than anything else about using the many possibilities we have – in our country as well as in the other countries of the Arctic. Much has happened over these years: we have increased preparedness in northern seas through our own actions and international cooperation. The BarentsWatch marine monitoring system and the search and rescue agreement negotiated following an initiative in the Arctic Council are examples of this. We have strengthened our presence in the north, among others. through the transfer of the Armed Forces Operational Headquarters to Bodø, the establishment of the Coast Guard Headquarters in Blackland and the acquisition of five new frigates and six new coastal corvettes to improve Norway’s capacity in the northern sea areas. Norway currently owns one of Europe's most modern and highly revalued defences, for which we have great recognition from our allies. This is important both for foreign policy in general and for north-eastern policy in particular. We have also worked hard to improve our understanding of developments in the Arctic within NATO. The premise that Northern Region policy should be possible is that through our security policy, we succeeded in creating predictability and clarity in our own neighbourhoods. In addition, we have strengthened and clarified Nordic foreign and security policy cooperation in important areas – such as material cooperation, exercises, air surveillance and digital security. A whole new dynamic has come into Nordic cooperation. Furthermore, we have contributed to a marked rise in environmental and climate knowledge – established in Tromsø, and increased resources for polar and climate research. We have focused on the development of nutrition on land, among others. within the mineral industry and travel. With the Barents Sea demarcation agreement in place, the mapping of petroleum resources on the seabed is now under way. In the fisheries sector, we can refer this year to the largest cod quota in the Barents Sea. Good cooperation with Russia on fisheries management has been important to achieve this. Good locations and good environmental status in the northern areas also provide a suitable starting point for the further development of the aquaculture industry in the north. We have a continuous dialogue with Russia on visa facilitation, more effective border crossing, customs and similar issues. The regime of border residence certificates entered into force on 29 May last year. On the Norwegian side, we want to harmonise our visa procedures with Finland, which will make it easier for Russians to obtain multiple travel visas to Norway. We have strengthened business cooperation with Russia. Our Embassy in Moscow is strengthened with competence in education, research and innovation. Much of this has contributed to a whole new economic dynamics in North Norway. The main challenge today is access to enough skilled labour. We see the growth of a dynamic business in the north that shows the ability and the willingness to assert itself internationally. But our northern vantage point also gives us orchestral space to observe global climate change. Last fall, the new alarming facts came. The prevalence of sea ice in the Arctic Ocean has been at the lowest level since modern measurements started in 1979. The multi-year period melts, the tundra tin, the greenhouse effect amplifies. Climate change must meet with global efforts. We also need to use the cooperation structures in the north to find solutions, both to combat climate change and to adapt to the changes that will have to happen in any case. During our Presidency period in the Barents Council, until October this year, the government will draw up a climate action plan for the Barents region. In addition, economic development, the environment and people-to-people cooperation are the main initiatives for this Presidency and work on a transport plan for the region. The highlight will be the marking of the first 20 years of Barents' cooperation in the Church in June. There we aim to sign a new Church Declaration to complement the 1993 and 2003 Declarations and to provide a framework for further cooperation. I am proud and pleased with what we have achieved in Barents' cooperation during these 20 years. It's been noted internationally. I will give tribute to the active role played by the counties and many municipalities in the north and by depositors. Arctic Councils have become more important in recent years, and we discussed this in an interpellation last month. Right after that, I had the pleasure of signing the host country agreement for the Arctic Council during a ceremony in Tromsø. This confirms the status of the city as the capital of the Arctic. The agreement concluded between the Member States of the Arctic Council on search and rescue will be followed up by an agreement on oil protection, to be signed at the Kiruna ministerial meeting in May. Furthermore, we hope to reach agreement on the inclusion of new permanent observers. Norway supports the admission of new observer countries meeting the criteria adopted at the Nuuk ministerial meeting in 2011. Our attitude to the admission of new permanent observers is known internationally. The same is true of our invitation to the candidate countries to dialogue with Norway on Arctic issues, of course China. The issue of observers illustrates the growing interest in northern areas from outside the region — not least from Asian countries. In line with climate change, the Arctic Ocean is increasingly seen as a sea that binds North America, Europe and East Asia together. Cooperation in the Arctic is taking place within defined frameworks of international law. There is full agreement that the law of the sea identifies the framework for action in the Arctic — in the fields of environmental protection, research, petroleum activities, the establishment of the outer boundary of the continental shelf and shipping. In the future, the government of the North Region will pay particular attention to knowledge building, value creation, technology development and other challenges facing the region. We need to develop the Barents Sea into a new oil and gas region in Europe – in a balanced way with important fisheries, climate and environmental considerations. We need to build a robust and environmentally sound mineral industry – which will facilitate the forthcoming mineral strategy. We will continue to develop the highest standards for petroleum extraction, movement and transport in demanding climatic areas. Today, we have broad cooperation with Russia in many of the areas of society I have just mentioned. A good neighbourly relationship has always been important for Norway. We'll look for new opportunities to further strengthen this. Developments in Russia affect us in many ways, and today it faces a number of challenges. Modernisation and reform are needed to avoid economic and social stagnation, which in turn may lead to increased dissatisfaction among the population. In order to modernise the economy and society, international cooperation, open contact and good framework conditions are essential. It will therefore continue to be important to engage Russia, both bilaterally and internationally. We closely monitor the human rights situation in Russia. The development here gives cause for concern. Human rights are under increased pressure, and this is addressed in our contacts with the Russian authorities. Following the presidential election, several legislative changes have been introduced which limit the scope of civil society and political opposition. This is clearly unfortunate for the development of democracy. We are also concerned that this could go beyond the cooperation between Norwegian and Russian civil society – precisely because this people-to-people cooperation is such an important platform for relations between Norway and Russia. It is therefore important for us that cooperation at grassroots level is not affected. The suspension of the activities of the indigenous organisation RAIPON gave a alarming signal. We've brought this up with the Russian authorities. On several occasions we have expressed concern and concern at the negative developments, bilaterally and in multilateral forums, such as the OSCE and the Council of Europe. The close contact and the broad cooperation we have provide us with a good starting point for addressing also difficult questions. At the same time, we continue our support for project cooperation between Norwegian and Russian civil society and for the work on human rights and non-governmental organisations. The world's energy landscape is undergoing significant changes, changes that will have a major impact on our foreign policy as well. In Asia, demand for energy is growing and contributes to a strong increase in world energy consumption. The United States is experiencing a technological revolution in drilling for shale oil and shale gas, which will also have consequences for Norway. The International Energy Agency, the IEA, tracks that the United States will be the world's largest oil producer in a few years' time, and that North America will be a net energy exporter as early as 2030. The prospect of the US becoming almost independent of energy imports must also be assumed to have extensive geopolitical implications, such as: in the relationship between the United States and the Arab oil producing countries. OPEC is strongly influenced by this. Over 90 pst. As a result, Middle East oil exports are expected to go to Asian countries in 2030. There is every reason to believe that this will help to make emerging powers in Asia more interested in the political development of oil-producing regions. Norway is an energy storm power and is also perceived as such in the world. We're the third largest gas exporter in the world. We account for one third of EU imports of gas. We are Europe's largest renewable energy producer, and our production is going to increase to 67.5 pst. of total energy consumption by 2020. Our hydropower production is the world's sixth largest, in front of countries like India and France. Europe is asking for our clean energy and new opportunities for exchange with our hydropower. The transmission capacity of the network to Europe has increased and will be further increased by 2020 in the framework of security of supply in Norway. An even closer energy cooperation will develop in Europe in the coming years, and Norway will be an important part of this picture. In addition, through Oil for Development, there is a high international interest in the Norwegian model for the management and organisation of oil and gas resources. All in all, our oil and gas interests – together with the increasing international involvement of Norwegian companies – also face new challenges. It becomes an increasingly important task to understand the geopolitical trends that result from a global energy landscape in rapid change and to understand what this means for us. At the same time as Norway has become a power of energy, the internationalisation of other Norwegian businesses has also been reinforced. In the 1990s, the 30 largest Norwegian enterprises had one third of their employees abroad. Already today, the proportion is two-thirds. Norwegian maritime enterprises are present in the most important growth markets in the world. The Norwegian Veritas – to take just one example – has 300 offices in 100 countries. The marine industry produces 1 million. tonnes of salmon each year exported to the world. Telenor is the world's eighth largest mobile operator. We have built up the world's largest state investment fund, the state pension fund abroad, with investments in well over 7,000 companies around the world. We benefit from globalisation and its specialisation. However, our economy, our well-being and our employment depend very much on global economic development. Our dependence on the petroleum sector means that we are vulnerable. We depend on having a business that creates values and that is and remains competitive in an international market. In order to ensure future well-being and value creation, we must continue to exploit and promote our advantages in different areas also internationally. We must support the development of the sectors that are most at international level. We also need to promote a wider range of businesses, products and services. Major investments and important Norwegian interests in countries and regions that have not previously had much presence from Norwegian business also require news of how security, preparedness and crisis management must be met. All of this I have pointed out about the very internationalisation of Norwegian business, is part of the background that the government is now strengthening its efforts to promote Norwegian business. Economic diplomacy shall be given a higher priority. We look specifically at how we can adapt the EEAS to better serve Norwegian business interests abroad. This includes the organisation of work, the tools and instruments we use, the partners and interlocutors we choose abroad, and how we can best assist in countries where there is little political and economic predictability and lack of legal certainty. My position is that it is never wrong for Norwegian businesses to establish themselves in any country, with the exception of places where this would be contrary to international sanctions regimes. My experience is that the presence of Norwegian industry contributes rather positively than negatively — at least as long as they are involved in social responsibility, promotes decent work and combats corruption. In addition, the government wants to achieve greater synergies between development assistance and Norwegian business, and we look at how international research cooperation can be used more strategically to promote Norwegian business interests abroad. In a short time, we will present a notice on Norway’s place in global cultural cooperation. Together with the business community, we will continue our efforts to promote reputation and social responsibility. The Minister of Industry and Trade and I also look at how we can strengthen cooperation with other departments and their instruments. We have launched a broad and inclusive process involving business. We're going to act together and co-ordinated out there. Therefore, in close cooperation with the Minister of Industry and Trade, I want to focus more on our Team Norway model. Here we can be inspired by our Nordic neighbour, who has chosen to bring together all the actors involved in the international marketing of Finland and Finnish companies in their Team Finland, and we can learn from the organisation of this. We find large parts of the new markets in Asia. Norwegian value creation is directly affected by developments in this part of the world. We see an Asian counterpart to the growth and market development that in its time made Europe and the United States the main trading partners of Norway. The fact that Norway has come out better than many other European countries in today’s economic situation is largely due to the increasing demand for many of the goods and services exported by Asian countries, while demand for the same goods and services has fallen in more traditional markets. Asia today accounts for well over half the world’s population and an increasing share of the world’s gross domestic product. But Asia is far from just a growing business arena for the interests of Norwegian or other countries. Asia's emergence is about politics, technology, research, culture and much more. In our part of the world, more and more people look east. In the United States too, there is a growing trend towards Asia, both politically and economically. In the 21st century, the United States will appear to be as much a Pacific power as an Atlantic power. The relationship between the United States and China thus becomes one of the most important bilateral relations of our time. The increasing tension we see in the South China Seas poses a new challenge. This is important for us to understand, also as close allies of the United States. We condemn the night's bombing in North Korea for the most part. It is a flagrant violation of the standards of the Test stop agreement and represents a serious threat to international peace and security. The world community must be united in its response to the North Korea nuclear programme. Strong economic growth in Asia has increased optimism and political confidence in many countries in the region. Increased trade and investment links Norwegian technology, competence and capital directly to Asian markets and industrial and knowledge environments. At the same time, we must be aware of the many challenges we face in several countries: high growth rates, partly weak economic structures, cultural and political inequalities between countries, poor commercial policy frameworks, the risk of corruption and increasing disparities in living conditions and income in several countries. The region as a whole is still characterised by varying degrees of democracy, good governance and growing environmental problems. Together with the needs for resources and commodity access for the emerging economies, this gives rise to internal tensions and regional conflicts. From the Norwegian side, we give high priority to understanding the trends and impacts on Norwegian interests. This work will lead to an action plan for our investment in Asia that will focus on how we must seek to exploit the many new opportunities. In order to safeguard Norwegian interests, it is important to think strategically and in the long term towards Asia. We will be closer to the wider processes that are taking place in the region. We see that established regional structures have new and heavier roles and that others are emerging. We're going to make our common interests visible and promote in our meetings with Asian partners. In regional fora and bilaterally, we will continue to have normative issues high on the agenda in our dialogue with Asian countries. One of the most important value debates in our time is the one that takes place within emerging Asia. As in other parts of the world, this debate is also about the relationship between rulers and those who are overthrown, about democracy, human rights, freedom of expression and human dignity. We should highlight the importance of international law for the relationship between land and for security and freedom of movement in all marine areas. Like many of our partners in Asia, Norway has strong maritime traditions. The maritime sector is an anchoring party in our trade with many Asian countries. We're going to meet the growing international interest in the Arctic from central Asian countries with commitment and dialogue, both to better understand their interests and motives and to develop Norwegian views in the north. The exchange of visits is an illustration of how we see – and travel – to the east. Last year the royal house, the prime minister, myself and several other members of the government made a series of extensive visits to Asia. The Crown Princess couple visited Indonesia in November with a large business delegation in energy, maritime trade and infrastructure. The Prime Minister visited South Korea and later Japan with a large business delegation and Myanmar. The Prime Minister and I both participated in the ASEM, Asia–Europe Forum, Laos, where Norway was admitted as a new member. This forum provides us with unique opportunities for high-level political exchange and more informal contacts with Asian partners. Even I visited Laos, Myanmar and Singapore and in November Bali Democracy Forum where a number of Asian leaders participated. This is an important Indonesian initiative to promote democratic processes and human rights in the region. In April, I intend to attend the Community of Democracies’ Ministerial Meeting in Mongolia – another country that, following extensive and positive political reforms, raises the tab of democracy promotion in the region and globally. Norway has also launched a dialogue on a broader partnership with ASEAN, the South-East Asian Cooperation Organisation. This is the main institutional framework for multilateral cooperation in Asia. Norway is in the process of establishing a formalised partnership and has decided to accede to the ASEAN Treaty on Friendly Relations and Cooperation in Southeast Asia during the year. Through our fresh membership of ASEM and our future relationship with ASEAN, we can participate in and influence the regional agenda. It also gives us an opportunity to discuss global issues such as security policy, environment, climate and health – areas where Asian countries are important actors and face particular challenges. Therefore, the government is now strengthening cooperation with the region’s institutions and with individual countries. Some examples: India is a very important player in the new global and regional dynamics. At the bottom is the strategy for cooperation between Norway and India presented by the government in 2009. We have worked systematically for a long time to expand cooperation in policies, economics and business, sustainable development and health. The presence is also strengthened. We have put in place a new tax agreement, and we are now negotiating a trade agreement within the framework of EFTA to ensure that Norwegian businesses get as predictable framework conditions as possible. Norwegian business shows increasing interest in India. Furthermore, in the future, the government will continue its research cooperation with India. Indonesia has undergone an impressive process of democratisation, strong economic growth and is now the largest economy in Southeast Asia. As the world's most populous Muslim country, Indonesia is an important bridge builder in the region, a voice for diversity and tolerance, and a driving force for regional integration and a clearer ASEAN. Norway has established a strategic partnership with Indonesia. We work together in economics and business, climate, forests and energy, promoting human rights and democracy. It is gratifying that last year Innovation Norway opened its office in Jakarta to assist Norwegian business. South Korea is also becoming an increasingly important partner for Norway. During the visit of President Lee to Oslo in September 2012, we concluded two important cooperation agreements in the maritime sector with South Korea. The fourth year was an eventful year in Chinese politics. At the Communist Party Congress, a new generation of leaders came into the top positions. A new president and a new government will be appointed at the People's Congress in March. China’s new leadership faces major tasks related to economic and social change. We look forward to good and constructive cooperation with the new leaders of China. Norway historically has a good relationship with China. We were among the first countries to recognise the People's Republic. Friendship and close relations between our two countries have evolved over a number of years and many visits have taken place. There are considerable opportunities for cooperation in a number of areas, such as: the maritime sector, environment, energy and Arctic. The 2010 Nobel Peace Prize award has damaged the bilateral relationship between Norway and China. In Chinese teams, it was claimed that the allocation was an interference in Chinese internal affairs. The government acknowledges the negative consequences of the situation that has arisen. This is the background for the government's active efforts to put the bilateral relationship back on track. Together with China, we have a common interest in strengthening bilateral relations, based on mutual respect. As part of this work, Prime Minister Stoltenberg had a brief meeting with Prime Minister Wen Jiabao under ASEM in Laos. The government also maintains close contact with Norwegian business operators in China. We appreciate China's understanding and cooperation to normalize our relationships in the dialogue that is taking place. Today's China is a global player both economically and politically. China's choices in areas such as economics, distribution, the development of the rule of law, migration and the environment will have an impact on an entire world. We respect China's right to choose freely its path of development. We look forward to good dialogue with China on issues of common interest in the future. A stable China is in Norway's interest. The switchovers in Myanmar have been nothing less than impressive for the past six and a half years. In two weeks the president of the country, Thein Sein, will visit Norway. Last November, the Prime Minister opened a joint Norwegian-Danish embassy in Myanmar. Norway has supported the movement of democracy in the country for over decades. Given our long-term commitment, it was also important for us to act when we saw that a new time was on the rise. I myself visited Myanmar for the first time in April 2011 as a State Secretary. It was the first political visit of some Western government after the new powers had taken over after the dictator Than Shwe. I realized that it was a significant, almost surprising, willingness to change at the new authorities. When I was there later that same year, I saw that many changes had already occurred. And since 2011, the government of Myanmar has concluded truce agreements with ten of the 11 non-governmental armed groups. The vast majority of political prisoners are released. Aung San Suu Kyi has been elected to the parliament of the country and is head of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights. Media censorship is almost gone, and in this area Myanmar is in fact far ahead of a number of countries in the region, including countries we have seen for many years as relatively democratic. A new investment law has been passed, and Myanmar has gradually gained a central role in ASEAN and takes over the presidency next year. At the same time, we should not underestimate the major challenges. The situation in the Kachin province is unclear. Although peace talks are going on right now, it's not long since there were strikes in the province. The violence that flared up between the peoples of the Rakhine province has also led to humanitarian suffering. We have reminded the authorities in clear order that they have a duty to protect everyone who lives in the kingdom. The country needs political processes that lead to lasting peace solutions, capacity building and inclusive economic growth. Following the lifting of the sanctions, Norway has been working to concrete the future Norwegian effort and commitment both in the country and in the region. In the field of peace, we started to support concrete projects in the arms rest areas in 2012. We took on the leadership of the donor group to coordinate support for these areas. The actors themselves are in the driver’s seat in the peace process, which is crucial. To conclude, in our changing world, in a time of breaking, we must protect our interests and our fundamental values. We should be aware of the shift of power and influence – economic, political and cultural – that is happening to the east, and we should promote our interests, not least in the north, and our well-established relations in the neighbourhoods, Europe, and the transatlantic ties. We should also be as prepared to face global security threats as possible. All of this requires an adapted foreign service and a clear strategic vision for Norwegian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e579	The President will propose that the Foreign Minister’s foreign policy statement be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e593	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e602	The issue is the development and financing of R & D. 4 on the routes Lunner border – Jaren and Lygna south of Uppland. In the Committee, there has been an effective and good process and a broad consensus on the solutions. The Progress Party has a different financing arrangement, and I expect them to explain it. Riksvej 4 goes from Oslo to Mjøsbrua in Uppland. That part of rv. 4 in Oppland is probably 100 kilometers long. The road has a function both as a local road and as a main road link between Uppland and the Oslofjord area. The road is in place of poor standard, which leads to a heavy burden on the local environment, as well as many accidents and poor performance. In this case, proposals have been made for the development and financing of R & D. 4 on the routes Lunner border – Jaren and Lygna south of Uppland. The Lunner border-Jaren is the first stage of the planned extension of Rv. 4 on the route Roa-Jaren. Upland counties and the municipalities concerned have agreed that rv. 4 on the routes Lunner border – The Jar and Lygna south shall be co-financed with tolls. It is foreseen that the works on the Luner border-Jaren section can start in the summer of 2013 with traffic opening in the summer of 2016 and that the works on the Lygna south section can start in the spring of 2013 with traffic opening in the summer of 2014. The line Lunner border-Jaren is narrow and swinging. It is not a continuous local road. At Lygna south is rv. 4 narrow and curved. There is also a lack of pass-by fields in the rises, which results in reduced prosperity, especially in winter. There is a distance of about 9 km between the Lunner border and the Jaren, and the extension includes a four-field road with a road width of 20 m and a mid pulley, mainly in a new trajectory. Through the hill east of the Gran Centre, a 1,7 km long tunnel with two runs is being built, and it will be set at 50 million. kr for measures on current rv. 4 to adapt the road to its new role as a local road, including: with measures at the Gran Centre. The construction at the south of Lygna includes a distance of 3,4 km with a high gradient. A new road will be built with pitfalls, mainly in a new trajectory. An extended external quality assurance has been carried out for the project. Converted to 2012 krone, the governance framework will be 1870 million. NOK 2 010 million and the cost framework. kr. As I have explained, there is a need for a better standard on the road. I myself have driven the route several times, no later than in January. There is a lot of heavy goods vehicle traffic – the proportion is about 10 pst. – and when today’s roadway is narrow and swinging, it goes without saying that it is demanding for those who are going to use the road to service functions, school and leisure activities and between the various branches of the area. Traffic volumes sometimes lead to significant difficulties in accessing and crossing the day’s rv. 4th@item: inlistbox There is a need for better offers for walking and cycling. The entire distance has a speed limit of 70 km/h or less, and there are many direct runs. A noise-absorbed periphery also makes this demanding, and there have been many accidents involving personal injury in the period 2002–2011. That's why we can make a positive decision today. Projects will bring positive benefits to the environment, which means safer traffic, increased accessibility, less noise for residents and better conditions for all vulnerable road users. We are happy with Hadeland, we are happy with Uppland, who is now getting the necessary upgrade that they need on these routes, and we believe that this will be positive in terms of strengthening value creation, road safety and housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e619	We are very many who today are very pleased that we will now adopt the development of Rv. 4 from the Lunner border to the Jaren, as well as Lygna south of the Gran municipality of Oppland. These extensions cover a total of 12,4 km of road, mainly in a new trajectory, and are very long-awaited – and necessary. Finally, it happens. And as it says in the proposition and the setting: this is the first stage of the planned expansion of rv. 4 between Roa and Jaren, so the next stage is planned as the distance we're adopting today begins. This will make it even more – and faster – new way off. In the near half of a year, in the summer of 2014, Lygna south of 3,4 km can be opened for traffic, and in the summer of 2016 a new route, approximately 9 km, between the Lunner border and the Jaren could be used. There will be a lot of roadwork in my homestead in the next few years, and some have already begun. The next case, which is about E6 through the Gudbrand valley, is also a very important matter for us. There will hardly be many of us who are going to complain, sail if we once in a while have to wait for some work. For the most part, we're waiting on a modern road. Sub-financing through tolls, with a collection period of 15 years, is absolutely necessary to achieve this. Without tolls it would be fewer projects and longer to wait on modern roads for many here in the country. My impression is that more and more people understand this. However, it is important that toll rates are at an affordable level, in particular for those who use these routes on a daily basis. Today's rv. 4-trasé does not keep track of traffic volume and function. It is narrow and fluctuating, and the combination of local and transit traffic is demanding. Unfortunately, many road accidents have occurred on this route on Rv. 4th@item: inlistbox Three have been killed and nine have been seriously injured in the period 2002–2011. The transport safety argument will always be the most important one for the prioritisation of projects. Development means a great deal to increase road safety, but also to improve the environment and accessibility, and not least to increase value creation and secure existing jobs and create new ones, as well as population development and population structure – not just in Hadeland. The development will help to link Uppland and the capital area more closely, and the municipalities along the river. 4 is very active in raising other development needs further south in order to heal Rv. 4 is going to be like this. They are also very concerned that the Gjøvik track will have good development opportunities. There is a need for both a modern road and a path. The Gjøvik region, with five municipalities, nearly 70000 inhabitants and, inter alia, the country’s largest concentration of car-related industry depends entirely on the better way of moving forward. In the Western Toten municipality is almost 45 pst. of the total employment in mechanical engineering and from the Gjøvik region an estimated 120 trailers southwards each day. This region, like Hadeland, has great potential, but is completely dependent on good communications. It is my claim that the road projects we are adopting today will have a positive impact and will create new and strengthened optimism long before the projects are completed. The development offers completely new opportunities for centre development in Gran. Large areas will be available in the centre when the current rv. The 4-trasé is downgraded and building boundaries towards the road are reduced. There will be a completely different opportunity to develop the Gran Centre as a region centre in Hadeland. 50 million. Road project funds have also been set aside to adapt the road to its new role as a local road, including measures at the Gran centre. It won't be much better to be a soft road user. That's most of us -- right there. Noise and pollution will be significantly reduced at the Gran Centre. It gives better living and living conditions. Emissions from all the cars that in the rush hour stand still through the Gran center, will be gone. There are today large transit traffic of heavy goods vehicles crossing Hadeland. Furthermore, shorter travel time and reduced transport costs will make commercial areas more attractive. Existing enterprises are becoming more competitive. The journey time for Jaren-Oslo will be significantly reduced. Similarly, driving time will be shorter for anyone who commutes daily to Oslo by car or bus. When I visit companies in my home country, there are two messages left from management and trust-chosen, especially in the export-oriented industry. It is that, as politicians, we need to keep the economy and the crown price in order, and the need to get better access to markets as soon as possible. Now I believe we are in the process of providing what companies are asking for: safe economic governance and the basis for safer and faster transport of goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e647	The Progress Party also supports the development as mentioned in the case in order to put in place a modern, safe and environmentally friendly RV. 4 in the affected area. The party of progress is well-known as today's rv. 4 between the Lunner border and the Year and the Lygna south do not have a satisfactory standard in relation to traffic volume and function. This poses major challenges both for transit traffic and for local traffic. The Party of Progress has noted the worrying number of accidents between 2002 and 2011 on the extension sections. The Progress Party also regards these projects as part of the necessary upgrading of the road network in Norway and as important for strengthening value creation, road safety and housing. So far for the consensus. The case illustrates a way of building a road on which the Progress Party believes is a fundamental error. The case concerns two projects – in a little different places on the same website. 4th@item: inlistbox It is built with different standards. One project is built as a four-field road with a mid pulley, the other as a two-field road with a mid pulley and a pass-by field on the whole route in the north direction and select 1 km of the distance of a total of 3,4 km in the south direction. It is therefore intended to build a partial four-field road – classified and referred to as a pass-by field – on 1 out of 3,4 km, i.e. 30 pst. of the route. The Progress Party has asked questions as to why a not full four-field road and what the additional costs are. In a letter from the Ministry of Transport dated 17 January 2013, it is named among others. the choice of development standards is based on current road standards. Then our, Progress Party's, answer is that this shows that the current road standards are wrong and used for slavery, and then the result is also wrong. Finally, the letter of reply states that if the Lights South were to be developed as a four-field road, there would be a significant standard jump between the two sections. So the government chooses to build a new road with a lower standard so that they don't get a standard run in relation to the old road, instead of building a new road with four fields and a modern standard. It is incomprehensible and unacceptable for the Progress Party to build a road in this way. We are also informed that the additional costs of increasing to four fields are estimated at between 30 and 35 million. kr, and that a change in the standard may result in a reopening of the tendering procedure. A little extra cost and a new round of tendering, we think it makes sense to get along when we build a new road. That is why we are proposing four fields for both projects. The Progress Party proposes full state funding. We believe it is the responsibility of the state to provide full funding for the construction, maintenance and operation of a modern, safe and environmentally friendly national road network. The use of toll financing, as proposed by the government parties and as suggested by the other parties of the Storting – Right, Christian People’s Party and Left – in this matter is enthusiastically in favour of, says FrP is an additional transport tax. In this case, the drivers are required to pay more than 2 330 million. kr. Of this amount, the repayment costs are 1 billion. NOK 1,000 million. kr. It's expensive to buy a way to pay off, but it doesn't seem to worry any of the other parties – not the Workers' Party, not SV, not the Center Party, not the Christian People's Party, not the Left, nor the Right. It's not a news bomb. So far in the government's nearly eight years of power, including this and the next toll case, there's become a formidable bill for the drivers. The number is 127 billion. DKK in tolls, 24 bn. SEK in interest, SEK 8.5 billion. NOK in collection and SEK 94,5 billion. kr in toll contributions to various projects. With the government of Stoltenberg, toll financing paid by the drivers has become one of two main sources of funding for road construction, the construction of new collective actions and the operation of collective actions. Through toll financing dealt with in the Stortinget, all the other parties, including the Right, have, for almost eight years, sent a huge extra tax bill to the drivers, to the business community and to individual travellers. Only the Progress Party stands up for state funding of the state's roads, as we do in this case as well. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e679	The representative of Arne Sortevik has then taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e682	When I was a youth politician for the Senterung judgment in Gran, we were in position to fight to build Rv. 4 On the hill from Grua to Lies, so that the way should not go down into the country, into the dense places, and over the earth. This was in the 1980s and before it was decided to build the Grua tunnel and the Røste tunnel. We lost that fight, and the tunnels at Grua came into place. Then the cultural landscape lay open to build a new rv. 4 in Viggadalen. It turns out that the coincidences wanted me to live so closely in 1991. 4 as nearly possible - just a little to the right of the photo box! It meant that as a politician, I thought as much about the path to the trasé elections as possible. So I've lived along this road, which between 2002 and 2011 had 96 accidents with injuries. The 10 years before 2002, I can also sign that there were accidents along that road every year. I have experienced accidents several times closely and had a hospital in the kitchen. The speed was set down, it became a guideline, and then it got better. So I can personally stress the need for a new road through our village. In 2003, the municipality of Gran took decisions on trasé elections for Rv. 4th@item: inlistbox It changed slightly in 2004. Gran Centerpartie worked through this process to avoid too much food soil being lost, but the view of the Centerpartie did not have a majority in the local government and the decisions were taken. In Lunner, the process took longer than in Gran. One might say that there was a tougher fight for soil protection there. Tunnel solutions were discussed but rejected. Nevertheless, Lunner's campaign for soil protection has led to a shift in the line and a saving of more food soil than in the original plans. I think the awareness of the value of food soil will be stronger in the future, sail if anyone still seems to think that it's not so about doing. But it is also the case that citizens choose people for the local government to make representative decisions. Democracy now works so that it becomes majority and minority. We also have to accept that. It has been important for the Center Party to contribute to that rv. 4 would be a more traffic-proof road both for those who have the road as a school road, for commuters and for those who have the road as a job. Therefore, it has been important for me, as a major representative of Uppland and a member of the Central Party, to try to contribute to the realisation of the project when the line was first chosen. Swallow if I'm happy to have a new rv. 4 is coming, I think we're going to learn from this for future road projects. This applies both to overall planning and time use, and to the need to take greater account of the food soil from day one. Today we shall rejoice. With today’s decision, after decades of planning and investigation, it is finally ready to start work to provide Hadeland and Uppland with a safer way and better accessibility. I warmly welcome that!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e703	Let me begin by saying that it is a great day for travel in Uppland today. After all, the Storting will adopt today two major roadways, in Hadeland and in Gudbrandsdalen. So first out is rv. 4 on the routes Lunner border – Jaren and Lygna south. A Joint Committee considers that this is an important and necessary extension. The road, as it is today, is narrow, curved and accident-affected. The development will provide the local population and others with a safe and safe road through a large part of the municipality of Gran. Then also existing roads become a new local road. This allows teams to be more closely linked and facilitates the way to different service functions and leisure activities. The project, by laying the road in a tunnel past the centre of Gran, will save the local environment for dangerous and noisy transit traffic. The road will therefore also make life better and safer for the soft road users. The local population, who sometimes have problems crossing and getting on the road because of high traffic, will also have a simpler everyday life. The offer of walking and cycling is lacking today along existing roads, but new road development will also provide 2 km by new walking and cycling roads. Rv. 4 is also an important route between West Oppland and Oslo, which several speakers have spoken. It is also an important route of relief and diversion for E6 along the eastern side of Mjøsa. In addition, the road is particularly important for business in the Gjøvik and Raufoss regions. On the route from the boundary between Lunner and the municipality of Gran and to the Jaren, the road shall be built as a four-field road with a mid pulley and 20 metres in width. This route is mainly built in a new trajectory. The line Lygna south is narrow and curved. The lack of pass-by areas in the gradients results in reduced progeny, especially in winter. Now a lot of this distance is built in a new trajectory, and here there are also passing fields on the entire slope northward towards Lygna. Also here will be built mints. The government's proposal is supported by all parties in the Storting except the Progress Party, which supports the development, but has its own proposals relating to implementation. In this case, they want Lygna south to be developed as a four-field road, and they also usually go towards partial financing with tolls. Let me just mention that the traffic figures on the route Lygna south do not refer to the four-field road. If we chose a more expensive solution here, it would necessarily go beyond projects elsewhere. I would like to thank Stortinget for a quick handling of this matter, and I am happy to join both the settlers and all road users who will now benefit from a new and good road.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e722	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e725	The party of progress is pleased to see a new road being built. We disagree with the funding, but I leave that in my line. The point is that this is one of several projects that come up with rv. 4th@item: inlistbox It is necessary to rust up a lot of rv. 4th@item: inlistbox Then my question is, what is the overall plan of the Council of State for a more collective upgrading of Rv. Four? Is the plan from the government that it should happen in the same way as we now see, a little bit broken and divided, as if you were building a new line, something new with four fields and a middle draft, some new line with two fields without passing by, some new road with two fields and passing by, and then you keep something old, bad road. What's the overall perspective here? It is also a paradox that the ÅDT numbers are used as slavishly as shown in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e732	First of all, let me say that I think it is important that we get started quickly on this matter, and that the Storting will today adopt this expansion. I think it's a project that's longed for by many of those who live and run the road in Uppland. Then it is clear that the government is also concerned with the overall perspective of the further road development. We will soon come back to this when, for Stortinget, we will present the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023. There are a number of road sections that will be mentioned, including rv. 4th@item: inlistbox There we will also give priority to what will be the most important expansions over the next ten years. It will be the overall entrance to a debate also in the Stortingen on further road development. Otherwise, I have to say that from our side it is that traffic figures have to be taken into account, and that it is not that you have the opportunity, either economically or practically, to expand four-field roads across the country. In fact, you also have to base your traffic figures on whether you choose four-field, two-field or three-field roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e742	The council says she'll come back to the whole thing later. It's a little special that you haven't thought about it when you're about to start the expansion. But my question is about what the Council of State writes in the letter of answer to the question of consequences by going for the full four-field width. There are further delays, and reference is made to additional cost increases. It could be nice to know exactly what you're talking about. How much time will it take and what costs will be in addition to the 30–35 million. kr as referred to by the Council of State in its letter of reply?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e749	I have to say I'm a little surprised at the angle of the Progress Party here today. Is it the case that the Progress Party believes that we should have waited with the expansion that Stortinget will adopt today, because we are going to see the whole route together? It's clear that I think it's important that we get started on these sections and make sure to start building the sections we're talking about now, sail if I also recognize that there are other sections along the rv. 4 which is still under assessment. So that's how we get back into the national transport plan where we'll also sketch out what are the most important transport policy priorities for the next ten years. It will also cover not only rv. 4, but the whole main road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e754	The progress party definitely doesn't want to postpone, but we want to make sure that it's the same standard when you build things. And when we know that it's a little bit in the middle, you should make sure that you at least build it well on both sides, so that when you build it in the middle of it, you build it in a proper and proper way. But I record that the Council of State did not answer any of my questions about costs and about how much longer it might take. So I want an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e761	As we have also replied in the letter, we believe from the Ministry of Transport that there is no traffic base for building four-field roads on the south Lygna. In that case, you will have to spend more money, and you will also have to carry out a further planning that will lead to a postponement in relation to today's handling of the case. When the daily traffic on the south of Lygna is half of what is on the border of Lunner – I actually think it is right to choose a four-field road solution between Lunner and Jaren, and to choose a two-three-field road with regard to the south of Lygna, as we have done. As I said in my post, I am of the opinion that we should have chosen a more expensive solution here, as it would have been – although of course you can discuss the number of dollars, it would have become a more expensive solution – then it would necessarily go beyond other projects elsewhere in the country. In contrast to the representative Hoksrud and the Progress Party, the government acknowledges the need to give priority to economic resources in road construction as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e768	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e773	I'm glad we're getting an extension of rv. 4 in Hadeland. I think those who use the road every day and who live in the area, too, are. It's been elongated, and we're now getting a road that's much better than what it's been to now. And it actually wouldn't have to be that much more, to be completely honest. When we're going to build a road, we're going to try to look forward. We're trying to build today's roads for future use, but in this case I can't see that it's being done. It becomes strange to drive on a road that first has two fields, so four fields, so two fields with pass-by and then default, bad two fields again. Then there was talk that there was such a big difference. If you were to expand to four fields, the difference was so large from four fields down to two fields. But I believe that driving on so many different paths over the small distances that are must be even more frustrating. And I think it'll create a lot of cows. Now it is such that from the bench and upwards towards the Lyga, two fields with pass-by fields should now be built. In order to build four fields, as the Council of State says, it is much more expensive. Yeah, it's probably going to be a little bit more expensive, but I can tell you that landowners up there have actually given up the reason that there's going to be an opportunity to build four fields. Then it's interesting to note that the state is not at all interested in receiving the gift that the landowners give. It is also the case that when heavy transport goes uphill, they will necessarily spend a little longer, and it goes a little slower. But then the heavy transport has a rule of thumb: we're going to drive down as fast as we can drive up fast. And it's clear that when it becomes one field down the road, it will create cows and irritating moments for other drivers. So today the drivers pay a lot of extra taxes to get a car at all and get a car. Now this road is to be expanded with toll financing so that the drivers have to pay even more to be allowed to drive on a road that has yesterday's standard. It's amazing that we require the drivers to pay extra to run on yesterday's standard, and I think you have to be a socialist from the Workers' Party or the Right to understand the logic of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e793	Thank you for that. I had to take the floor when the council will not tell you how much extra costs are in addition to the 30-35 million. NOK and will not tell you how much longer it takes. Then I assume that it means that there will be little time, and that there will be very little extra costs in addition to the 30-35 million. kr. Then I think if you can get a full four-field road to 30-40 million. kr extra, there are peanuts in this case – at least in relation to what is left of the road. I find it interesting to hear the representative Hagebakken, who was up here and said that the Gjövik region was completely dependent on good roads. Yes, I understand that very well. And at least the Progress Party is very aware of that. No matter where we travel in the country, the feedback is that we need good roads and infrastructure – including rail, which the representative was also in. The garden hill showed that he had talked to the business community. So do we when we're around this country. He was concerned about economic governance. All parties are concerned about having good control of the economy and not putting the Norwegian economy in control. But what is at least the clear feedback I get from business is four things. One is stable, good framework conditions. Don't mess with our framework conditions! So there's three more things, and that's way, way and way. Some places are also important for some, but road is what comes from all over the country – a unisoned demand: more money on the way! Then I look at this case. Everyone is delighted that today we have made a decision to build the road. Of course, that's great. It is about both road safety, accessibility and framework conditions that are important for business. If you want to be kind, you can see what it looks like on the table in the Storing Message on page 7. If you want to drag the word pelvis long, it looks like a pelvis layer. But it's going to be a very long way, because that's 830 million. kr in government appropriations and SEK 1.33 billion. kr in tolls. But then you didn't include the billion that we put on top of it. So that means that just the interest expenses here are higher than all that the state contributes back to this road project. So in addition, there's a collection cost of 150 million. kr. So that billion isn't going to be a single meter away. And when the drivers pay 55 billion. SEK in taxes in 2013, and they receive approx. 20 B.C.E. kr back for road purposes, I believe that it is at the border of the state and the red-green government here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e804	The President would point out that the word 'ran' is not the most parliamentary we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e807	A good deal has been said about the need for good communication and transport. And it is that good communication is not necessarily an end in itself, but a necessary means of achieving almost all the other political goals we have here in society. This is why road construction is on Rv. 4 now so enormously important, not least for what has been pointed out here in the past, for the business community in the Gjøvik–Raufoss region. There is a lot of long transport on that route. So now a new four-field road is to be built from the Lunner border to the Jaren. Then you're talking about running on yesterday's solutions. There will be a formidable new road standard, the road will go into a tunnel outside the Gran center, and it will open up huge new possibilities. Lying south is also a problem, because it's so steep up there, as it's pointed out. There is already a pre-allocated area on large sections of the distance. It is now to be completed at the top of the Lights. This will also bring about a dramatic change in relation to today's situation, where cars will lie in line behind trailers that were slowly moving up. So there's a completely different standard, a completely different one on the left. 4 more is up to now. In a few years' time, this will be a completely different way. Then I thought it was bad when one kind of talks this project down, and that this is a sad day for Uppland. I have the impression that most people who look into this, see that this is a happy day.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e818	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e832	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e841	Yes, this must be a good day for Uppland, for here comes another case that concerns this county. This time there is the development and financing of the first phase of development of the E6 between Ringebu and Otta, the Frya-Sjoa route – a large project costing 4,660 million. 2012-kr. E6 through Gudbrandsdalen is part of the transport corridor between Oslo and Trondheim. The road is an important route for traffic in the East, North West, Middle Norway, North Norway and, of course, in the area where the road goes. In other words, a road of great national importance. The road is currently of poor standard in terms of traffic volume. It has reduced speed, it lacks track and cycle path and is a great burden on the surrounding environment. In addition, the road is subject to an accident load. Between 2000 and 2011, there were 122 personal injury accidents, 33 people were severely injured and 18 people were killed on this route. Annual daily traffic varies from one country to another. 4 900 to approx. 6300 vehicles, and heavy traffic is about 18 pst. It's worth noting that the road has a traffic increase in the summer months. The road will be a two-field road with a road width of 13,5 m and a mid pulley, and a pass-by field will be built. The project comprises two tunnels, Hundorp tunnel of 4.4 km and Teigkampen of 3.7 km. The tunnels are planned for two runs. Only one race with reinforced centre marking will be built; the second race is scheduled to be completed when annual traffic reaches 8000 vehicles. The road distance between Ringebu and Otta is 34 km. The road shall be bypassed by Hundorp, Harpefoss, Left and Kvam, and today's E6 will be converted into the local road. Thus, residents in these agglomerations can look forward to less noise and higher road safety. The Committee is concerned with value creation and that for Norway, as an export nation, good road links between the parts of the country and beyond to the continent are important. This project is needed in this way. The Committee also stresses that the development has a positive impact on the environment. There will be increased accessibility, safer traffic and shorter driving time. The members of the Committee of the Workers' Party, Right, SV, Christian People's Party and the Centre point out that the municipalities of Ringebu, Sør-Fron, Nord-Fron and Sel and Oppland counties have joined the project's partial toll financing, and these members advise the Stortingen to agree that the toll company is allowed to raise loans and to levy tolls for the financing of this extension, and that the Ministry of Transport is authorised to conclude an agreement with the toll company in order to lay down detailed rules for the financing scheme. The Progress Party does not support this and has its own proposals. In this case, there are also proposals and comments that deal with matters of a more general nature in road construction, road standards and responsibilities for county roads, to mention something, but I expect them to explain why all of this comes later in the debate. The right has also inserted a note that is partly of a slightly more general nature, and I expect that they will also get closer to it. But I stress that they support the proposal for a decision. There are now several major road projects running in Uppland. In addition to roads that are now under full development, the Stortinget gave a clear signal on 6 December last year for the development of Fv. 33 between Skreifjella and Totenvika. In the previous case, we debated the development and financing of R & D. 4, now E6 Frya-Sjoa. I believe that the latter two issues will have a majority in the Chamber later today. The representative Hagebakken said in the previous case that there will be a lot of road work in Uppland now, and that is quite right. I present with this the majority's position in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e869	This is probably a toll case. It's because the government doesn't use the state's funds to expand the state's roads that the issue of buying roads for hire comes to Stortinget. I would like to start by repeating some of the last thing I said in the previous case: In the almost eight years that this government has run, there have been many toll cases, and not least a huge toll bill for the drivers. With this case, there will be a total of 127 billion. kr in new tolls, 24 br. kr in interest – it’s a little talk about – 8,5 br. kr in collection – it’s a little talk about – and 94.5 billion. kr in toll contributions to various projects. This is an extra transport tax. It's worth noting that it's not just red-green government issues extra taxes. Also the parties Christian People's Party, Left and Right write out extensive extra taxes to the country's drivers, but they don't talk about it so much and so often. The party of progress is alone in the fight against the use of tolls. It's here in the Storting the fight that's decided. In this case, too, an additional transport tax is levied. The car lists shall contribute 4 260 million. kr. Of this, 1680 million is. NOK interest payable and 250 million. kr collection costs. There's a bill today sent to the drivers there almost 2 billion. kr is used to cover the costs of buying the road on payment. Europe road is built in Norway by hire purchase — hire purchase in one of the world’s richest countries — unimaginable, but also unnecessary. In the opinion of the Progress Party, the Norwegian economy does not control whether the state finances road development in Norway. Modern, safe and environmentally friendly roads strengthen the economy through increased competitiveness. Rather, the Progress Party will have new European pathways in Norway than more shares and debt securities abroad. This case also reveals and illustrates old-fashioned road construction. There is no doubt about the need. Today's road is of poor standard, is undersized in terms of traffic volume, has reduced speed and creates noise for surrounding residential buildings. The road is subject to accident – in the period 2000–2011 there were 122 accidents involving personal injury. The project, which is 34 km, will go on a new trajectory on almost the entire route. The Progress Party believes that the development of E6 has a positive impact on the environment, which means safer traffic, increased prosperity, less noise for residents and better conditions for vulnerable road users. The Progress Party also believes that good road links between the continent and the continent are important for Norway as an export nation. It has also underlined the whole of the Committee in this matter, as in the previous one. The project is also part of the necessary upgrading of the road network in Norway. But why on earth are we building a new E6 without building a new E6 as a four-field road with a mid pull? This is an extension for the past – not for the future. Once again, the Council of State, the Ministry of Transport and the Government of Road Normals. The Progress Party believes that they need to be changed – especially when we get results like this. The European roads are the core network of the national road network itself. We have to stop building small. We have to build to get away from the traffic growth we know is coming. The Progress Party understands that then we need to revise the existing regulatory plans. We've noticed an estimate of 1440 million extra costs. kr, but also that it could be $1150 million. kr. The Progress Party believes it is in any case a good investment to get four-field roads when we first build a new European road. The progress section reminds us that with more modern calculation methods, 1 DKK invested will return 3.5 kroner. There's nothing to run into. Good socio-economic returns, that is – far above what the oil fund can hope for. Investment in Norway with Norwegian oil money is a good and wise use of the oil wealth that gives Norway good returns. I would like to raise the proposal from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and I would like to ask for alternative voting in favour of proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e895	The representative of Sortevik has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e898	The progress party has brought some lush characteristics of the Right today. We'll just have to remember that, but to say it like that -- it doesn't go very hard in that we're called the Socialist Party in this room. I would like to remind you that tolls in this matter and in other matters are always wanted from a local environment. So you could say, as the Progress Party claims, you're being pressured to choose it. Well, I also think you pick it because you see that you get better accessibility, you get a better way for your business and for the industries that are also going to pass the distance. But you also get a safe road, and that's not least important for a lot of people. E6 is one of Norway’s main roads. It is long, and it goes not least through the Gudbrand valley in densely populated areas of high traffic. What characterizes E6, especially in the Gudbrand valley, is that there is very different traffic over the year, over the clock and over the weekend. The proposition shows the average ADT, annual traffic, but everyone knows that during periods of the year, periods of the day and periods during the week of high exit, traffic is much higher – and therefore it is also dangerous to traffic. We do not think this has received enough attention in this matter. For it is also true that this is one of the roads with the highest heavy traffic share in Norway. This, of course, leads to dangerous situations. Last time, or at least once before, we adopted an important parcel on the E6, we were the hair-breadth from reaching a principle decision to build narrow four-field pathways to dimension the future that lies a little further ahead than exactly what we get described in the utility-food analyses that are being used. We believe that there is a lack of today's planning and today's road construction, that one has not organized itself in such a way that one can see longer distances together, and thus get the synergies that are important to the road. As we build today, the road will soon become undersized in view of the traffic we see coming. Because it is that a new road and new conditions for traffic also create traffic – yes, it is actually the intention of the road that you should feel safer and use the road. When we in the Right have a minority comment on this matter, it is primarily because we point out that we believe that the limit for building narrow four-field road, which is a known category, should be 8 000 vehicles per day, and not 12,000 as today. Then we would build this distance by narrow four-field road. We therefore support the vote, as the rapporteur explained, and it is about the funding and the arrangement around it. The solution that has been chosen is not today's voting theme. So we don't support it, and we think that this organization that we once again do is part of a little bit of a clumsy way of building a road. I would recommend that the government think again and come to Stortinget with other ways to do this, on both E6 and other road sections.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e913	For me, who is not in the transport committee, but who reads a little bit in the media, it may sometimes appear that there are some who are a bit febrile trying to make it appear as if today's government is not betting on transportation. It's with all due respect to report direct errors. Both matters that we have to deal with today relate to Uppland County. Both cases are good examples of much happening in the field of transport, when large, heavy projects are launched in Uppland. Even other projects that are also built are referred to. I have said in the past that I am happy with all the green traffic lights we are waiting for in our county, and that sometimes we are late for meetings because we have forgotten that it is a roundabout or waiting time. That means something's happening. There was a major mobilization in the Gudbrand valley before the previous national transport plan was to be presented. That time I was so lucky to work for the Minister of Transport, so we noticed the pressure, to say it like that, also from a cross-political environment in the Gudbrand valley. The road through the Gudbrand valley has a lot of traffic and is loaded with a lot of accidents. There was a lot of pressure, and sail the ladies mobilized with their own group and collected over 20,000 signatures for a new road. The rapporteur in South Fron, Aksel Eng of the Workers' Party, was a strong driver in the work of new E6. Most of the team could see some things, but Eng got paid for the effort when E6 joined the National Transport Plan in 2009, and he also experienced getting the Oscar of the communications industry from Norwegian Information Advisors for the roadwork. Unfortunately, he does not enjoy himself with us today to see the road finished, since he went away too early. But he deserves a thank you for the job that he did, and I wanted to mention him especially today. I also want to thank Mr. Torstein Rudihagen for the work he has done for the E6 for many, many years. In addition, there are many, many others that should have been mentioned. But the hardworking work of people in the Gudbrand valley had not been done unless the government with the then Minister of Transport Liv Signe Navarsete had shown the will to invest heavily in the national transport plan and put the E6 building on the map. This has been followed up by subsequent Central Party Ministers of Transport. E6 in Gudbrandsdalen has been a reoccurrence in local and national newspaper columns. During the last ten years between 2000 and 2011, we can read that there were 122 accidents involving personal injury, 18 people were killed and 33 people were severely injured. Heavy traffic, some of which have already been involved, amounted to approx. 18 pst. of annual traffic in 2010. In the summer the traffic will increase significantly, and as the representative Halleraker was in, it will increase during the weekends. There are still accidents on this route, so it's urgent to do something. Suffering if anyone thinks that the road should have had four fields from Oslo to Trondheim, I believe we will now have a road that will lead to a great improvement and become a great change from as we know it today. The road shall bypass the agglomerations of Hundorp, Harpefoss, Vinstra and Kvam, and will be built with a mid pull. Based on the trasé selection, it seems to be a nice path in the landscape too – and the best of all: the development now begins in ours. It is always fascinating to listen to the Progress Party when new road projects are to be realised. There shall be four fields everywhere, there shall be no toll and all shall be financed in the revised national budget. - Exactly. Well, some chatter, and some do. I want this road to be developed continuously, and I believe that the best way to implement it is to bet on the current government also in the next period. This government has shown that it not only talks, but it does. But whatever happens in the future, at least with the decision today, we will have made sure that at least the first part of the road is expanded. We're going to enjoy that, along with everyone else who uses E6 — as a school road, as a commuter road or as a transport route to the West and to Trondelag or even further northwards. And if you haven't eaten cake before today, it's time for it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e941	I am pleased to see today that the Stortinget agrees with the proposal for partial toll financing for the development of E6 between Frya and Sjoa in Gudbrandsdalen. It states that a Joint Committee is satisfied that this section is being extended. The Committee also refers to all the positive effects that the development of this route will have on both road safety, the local environment and inter-urban transport. At all, there are many winners in this case. The Gudbrand beer that lives and travels locally along the route can delight in the old E6 becoming local road, so that the traffic is now safer and more efficient. They can also enjoy less noise and better conditions for the soft road users. Four sites are now protected for noisy and dangerous transit traffic. Many who have worked on this road route will have a better transport working day. These include: high traffic with agricultural machinery, and E6 is necessary for carrying out its tasks. With a heavy-duty car share of 18 pst. state that a new road is a significant improvement for both heavy-duty drivers and other road users. It's also good for anyone who uses E6 as a passageway, when we're going between north and south in Norway. What I want to mention, in particular with regard to the professional road users, is that a large road service facility outside the left is also to be built, where there will be daily rest for between 50 and 80 heavy vehicles. Today's road has long distances with reduced speed limits. Suffering if there is a reduced speed limit, this has been a very accident-affected road. Between 2000 and 2011, 18 people lost their lives along this road route. The road to be constructed will have centre parts, pass-by fields and uniform speed limit. The road will mostly have a speed limit of 90 km/h, while the tunnels will have a speed limit of 80 km/h. The proposal of the government is supported by all parties except the Progress Party, which believes that the road is too narrow and that it is built in too short stages. Then they believe that the road should not have been partly financed with tolls. In this respect, let me make it clear that toll financing has been said to have local support and that it is also supported by all the other parties in this room. As far as the view of the Progress Party is concerned, I must say that I do not agree with that. On the contrary, I believe that we are making an effective, safe and forward-looking path in the Gudbrand valley. Neither in the State Road Service nor in the report made by Oslo Economics for the NHO in June 2012, has a basis for a different dimensioning than the one now planned and discussed in Stortinget today. As I pointed out in the previous case, a more expensive solution would have led to the need to deprioritize projects elsewhere. The road we are now building is forward-looking, and we suggest that it can be extended to four-field roads if the need for it arises in the future. I will be allowed to thank the Stortinget for a quick handling of this matter, and would like to congratulate all users of the route E6 in Gudbrandsdalen, Frya-Sjoa, on their new and better way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e962	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e965	I repeat for safety: the party of progress is happy that the road is being built. We are concerned about building a good, safe and forward-looking road with enough capacity. What the ÅDT measurements do not take into account is that new roads create more traffic. What we can be absolutely certain about in this case is that there will be more traffic than what is in the forecasts. The ÅDT measurements also do not take account of the high share of heavy traffic on this road, nor of the fact that there is varying traffic and often much more traffic on weekdays and in seasons. The Progress Party will build a European road for the future, and we believe that four fields of pitfalls are the good way to build a road for the future, especially because we are now building a new trajectory. Why is the government building a new European road based on the past, a road that is obviously undersized?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e970	It is such that the government follows road standards in its planning of road development across the country. It suggests that it is not above all one can build the four-field road. I believe that the road that we are connecting to today's construction is a good and forward-looking road for the route in question. I have noticed that the Progress Party is now travelling all over the country and promising four-field roads everywhere to a huge sum of money. Some places don't even tell us what it's going to cost. But I hope that their potential future government partner Right remembers what the sum of such a type of bet will be. There is clearly an overdraft in relation to what is possible and correct in the case of Norwegian road construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e978	It is amazing to hear that the Council of State has such great confidence in annual traffic. In Telemark, where I come from, Grenlandsbrua was built and finished in 1996. Then the Vegvesenet stood up and said that now we have built the road for at least the next 50–100 years. Less than ten years later, the situation was that the traffic was so high that there was going to be a four-field highway there and not a two-field bridge, like the one that was built at the time. Now a new bridge has to be built. It's going to be a lot more expensive. Doesn't the Council of State see that this is part of the main trajectory between Oslo and Trondheim? Should you not then take into account to build forward-looking, with the full four-field road on the whole route, and not build clandestinely and divided, with small and narrow roads some places, when there is part of the transport year between some of the largest cities in our country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e983	The project we are adopting today will provide a good and forward-looking path in the part of the Gudbrand valley that we are talking about here. The government is basing itself on road standards when planning road development, and it suggests that a good number of sites should be built four-field roads, and that a single site should build two- and three-field roads. At all locations, an attempt should be made to build road safety. I have noticed that the Progress Party is now travelling around – it is probably part of the start of the election campaign – and promises four-field roads everywhere, regardless of the amount of traffic in the various locations. They don't say much about the bill yet, except locally – they say they're going to spend 100 billion. kr in the trombone layer count. But I expect that any government partner who is right-wing will notice what this may cost, because it is clear that no responsible government will be able to implement, especially if you are not going to allow toll financing of that type of road.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e990	Yes, the Progress Party is committed to bringing forward the policy we have, and I also thought the Council of State was. We see that it is difficult to meet the Council of State for debate unless you have matters in this Chamber. But I have recorded that the Council of State has also been out with quite expensive promises, so I am happy to see if all the promises now are going to be followed up by the Council of State when the National Transport Plan comes once. It should have come before Easter, but I see that it has now been pushed out in time. Does the Council of State not see that it is important to ensure that the main trajectories between the largest cities have a similar standard? In the previous case, the reason for not wanting to build a quadruple road was that you should not have too good a standard in relation to the road that is there today. But shouldn't you be forward-looking and build good standards, make sure it's the same standard all the way when you're building E6 with better standards? We in the Progress Party will at least have the full four-field standard on the whole route.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e997	It seems to me that the Progress Party is not able to enjoy the development we are now actually proposing, which will be implemented, and which is a good and forward-looking solution for this part of the E6 section of the Gudbrandsdalen. The government will contribute to the modernisation of the transport system, including the road network, throughout the country. It's just some of what NTP is about. We are going to present this to Stortinget, so that you get plenty of time to deal with this matter before the summer break. The promise of a four-field road across the country, as the Progress Party now travels and does – which one does not find on the central sides of the Progress Party, but only in the various counties – is a pure over-order and nothing else.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1004	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1009	We have a very ambitious transport plan. He's being followed up, and he's being executed. We see that all over the country, and it also shows the decisions we are making today on the development of RV. 4 in West Oppland, and in E6 in the valley of Gudbrand. In Oppland, we also see a certain reinvigoration of transport policy. There is at most one brand day when the development of the first stage on the route between Ringebu and Otta is agreed. I myself have been involved in this development for the last 20 years, both as a saying and as a big policy, but the plans and work on this new road on this route are over twice as old. There is a large local and regional commitment to new roads – of course – as the road has too poor curves, too narrow road widths, and there is a lack of supply for walking and cycling. There is a missing local road and E6 must be used by tractors and other agricultural machinery. A large part of the traffic is heavy traffic. Unfortunately, this road has also received many media redundancies in a bad way, because of too many tragic accidents. That's why it's a happy day now when the extension decision is made. The new road will have a major impact on building and industrial development in the Gudbrand valley. But the E6 is – as it has been mentioned earlier – a main trajectory between north and south and as a connection between south, north and west. A new E6 through the Gudbrand valley is of great importance to so many more than those who live in the valley. During this period of government, E6 will be expanded – Gardermoen–Colomoen and Øyer–Tretten. So the government follows up. Due to planned progress and funding, the Ringebu-Otta project is divided into two parts. The first stage is Frya-Sjoa. It is very important that the second part, Ringebu South and Sjoa-Otta, be built up continuously. The entire route Ringebu–Otto is part of the current national transport plan, and other stages of development still need to be included in the next NTP, without increasing the toll collection beyond what is currently provided for. It will be a good and functional road – just a two-field road of 13,5 m with a mid pulley – and 32 and 39 pst respectively. of the road section there will be a pass-by field. Long enough preexec field is important. I see that the Progress Party thinks that a four-field road of 20 m should be built with a central discount through the Gudbrand valley. In that case, it would be a challenge to have it adapted alongside the railway, which now needs a repair. So how the Progress Party would then be able to keep progress even with a state control plan, seems a bit strange to me. It seems as realistic as the Progress Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1026	I might have had with me the flag up here and the flag for the big day it is, because you actually build a road. But then I might have been clubbed by the president, and someone would have thought it was inappropriate from Storting's pulpit to wave with the flag. The progress party is pleased with every single meter of road being built in this country. We flag every day for every road being built, but we do it with a pretty bitter taste in our mouth. The representative Tingelstad Wøien was on the pulpit here and boasted of how nice and fine this was, and that this government was building the way. It is then possible to look at the facts in this case and in the previous case. It's not the government that's building a road in Uppland. They build a little bit, and then the drivers build all the way through sky-high collection costs and sky-high toll bills that are just being mailed onto the drivers. One later on, it's like the government is betting and building. The car lists shall contribute 6,590 million. NOK to build these two sections that we have discussed today. The government contribution is 3.1 billion. kr, i.e. less than half of what the drivers are going to contribute. I think maybe you shouldn't keep bragging so much of that it's the government that does it. The state contribution is, of course, the 55 billion that the drivers already pay in taxes and taxes this year — in addition, tolls are imposed on them. So to the right: I heard that the representative Halleraker thought we had lush statements. He must be allowed to mean that. He says that to the right it is so that it is wanted from a local environment. I'm a little unsure whether it's a pleasure wish if you're holding a gun against your senses and you're told that either do as we say, or you get nothing. Because the alternative to the political majority in this Chamber is: if you don't pay tolls, you won't get away. That's the threat that's coming. For the Progress Party, E6 is the main trajectory from Oslo to Trondheim or from Trondheim to Oslo, a little depending on which city you come from, and when it's important what comes first. It is one of the most important roads between some of the largest cities in Norway, and it is important to bring it with you. That is what the Progress Party thinks is important, and that is why we want to build the full four-field road as well. So it's like I've challenged the Right: don't be so careful now! Support the proposal to get four-field road on this route! That's really what you want, but you don't quite dare to bet and do it. But we challenge you to do that and join the full four-field road. So to the Council of State: unlike the government, the Progress Party follows up the national transport plan that we have adopted, and therefore we want to build the four-field road from Oslo to Trondheim or Trondheim to Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1039	I'm glad Oppland gets a lot of new way. I'm glad that the E6 is now being expanded over certain sections and getting much better. I'm glad that we might get a lot less accidents on a road as much as it's E6. I am pleased that the heavy transport on E6 on certain routes is now outside the agglomerations, and I am pleased that the agricultural machinery that has previously gone on these routes is now getting away from E6. I also think that those who live in the Gudbrand valley and use the road are as happy as I am for that very thing. If they're equally happy that they have to join in and pay even more on the way, I'm a little in doubt about. As has been mentioned earlier here, annual daily traffic is not large enough on certain sections of four fields, but it is such that annual daily traffic is an average. Upland is one of Norway’s largest – if not the largest – tourist and cabin counties in Norway. E6 is one of the roads and Uppland is one of the most transit traffic in Norway. Sometimes traffic is huge. I think that if you had taken this into account, you'd also have an extension of four fields all over the route being much more realistic and up-to-date than it is today. The government is betting on transportation, said, among other things Mr Tingelstad Wøien. Yes, there is no doubt about it. But it's not a problem to bet on someone else's money. When you're betting big and there are others who have to pay the bill, it's kind of very easy to bet a little bit. That's what's going on here. The government bets, and the drivers pay. The representative Hoksrud was involved, and I myself have been a municipal politician, as most people probably have here, and sitting on the municipal board where it was decided to build a roadway. It was very simple: if you don't accept a bomb, there won't be any way – «take it or leave it». It was really easy for most local government representatives to say, OK, we want this way, because we've been waiting for it for 30 years, so maybe it's time we got it. So finally, Rudihagen was concerned with the progress if you were to build the four-field road, and wondered how the Progress Party would have made it. Yes, it may be that in the Progress Party you are somewhat more effective than what you are in the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1056	I just want to repeat a question to the Progress Party: how much is the bill with four-field roads all over Norway, with which you roam around you? I wonder. I have seen an invasion proposal that came this summer, when the Progress Party was around in all local guides and suggested that the revenues from the photo boxes should go to the individual municipality, so each rapporteur got his box. So I just have one question: can the Progress Party guarantee that there won't be any toll if the Advance Party comes to government for the harvest? So just a little comment in the end. We boast that we build roads. Yeah, we actually do. At least we're building roads, we're building roads, and then we're voting for the expansion. The party of progress is happy – and votes against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1063	In the last few posts, we've had a couple of attacks on Øyvind Halleraker. Since he's not in the hall, I found it right to say some words. There is no surprise to anyone that there is a certain difference between the Progress Party and the Right in the view of tolls when it comes to financing roads. But the fact that we were to get the kind of results we've got now has not been Right-wing policy – saying to everyone around the Kingdom that you don't pay tolls, you never get any way. It has never been the intention and never been said, perhaps with the exception of a few places where a special road has not been able to take priority on the state budget. We should have seen, of course, that it was a four-field road up the Gudbrand valley, or the E6, as much as possible, but now it's once upon a time that road development is part of the priority in the use of funds. We have proposed that a different form of funding be found in order to get more money back. It has also been expressed by the Council of State that she sympathizes with this. However, with regard to the very background for the development of four-field roads, the Council of State has today pointed out that it is the ÅDT that is the basis for the templates used in road construction. Now, once again, if it's a very long time before you get up to the level where, according to the standard, you demand a four-field road, it could be a social economy waiting a little bit. I'm not going to go any further than to say that we initially have a lot of understanding of the use of ADT as a basis for expanding the road. When Hoksrud now asks that the Right is thinking today and voting for their proposal, I must say that I am not sure that it is so clever. If you are going to decide today that there will be a four-field road on this whole route, that means that it has to be postponed, and you have to start re-planning. We don't mean that. We think it makes sense to accept what is on the table today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1074	We have registered concerns from the party Right about the use of the ÅDT, and that Right wants you to look at this in more detail. I understand that the Right does not want to support the Progress Party's proposal 2, which is a matter of changing road standards. But I do not record that the Right has its own proposal relating to the use of the ÅDT and the construction of a new road. It is also true that the Right has voted for all the toll projects dealt with by the Storting in the last eight years. It begins to approach 60 projects – 60 projects in almost eight years – and the bill forwarded, the extra transport tax, also from the right hand batch, is 127 billion. NOK, which we now repeat for the third time in the course of two cases. Then there is reason to say that the Progress Party is voting for the projects, but we have our own funding. So we want the state to pay to build the state roads. We do it because we believe that the state has good advice, and that it does not in any way destroy Norway's economy if the state builds new, modern, safe, efficient and environmentally friendly roads. In fact, building more roads – investing our wealth in building a modern infrastructure in Norway – is economical. It creates competitiveness, and it creates growth in the economy. There is no reason for the drivers to be forced to buy roads based on compulsory payments. But this is also the case – it must be for the representative Rudihagen and others, in fact the Council of State – that the Progress Party follows its own plan. We are still in a current planning period, 2010–2019. Nearly four years ago, the Advance Party presented its own alternative NTP. I would recommend the document to the Council of State. Funding can be found, including: by four-field E6 from Oslo to Trondheim, or from Trondheim to Oslo, so we believe that we have coverage to propose what we are now proposing. We want to build modern roads that can take the traffic demand that we know is coming. People usually don't travel for fun. They travel because they have a transport need. What we can be quite certain about is that the transport demand will be much higher than the size of the government, including for the development of the road project in this case, in the same way that we have a traffic forecast for the project in the previous case. Traffic will far exceed those forecasts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1086	In fact, I wonder whether the representative Tingelstad Wøien will understand, or whether she will not really understand, what is actually in the proposal for a decision. If she reads the Progress Party proposal, it's very clear: we want to build the road, but we want to build it with four fields. It is therefore the case that the Progress Party has an impact on the proposals we are making, and this is about presenting our national transport plan. We have not proposed building four-field roads across the country. It's just to go in and look at the proposal of the National Transport Plan and what we're actually proposing. To the representative Myraune: He said that I asked the Right to think. I didn't say that. I said, "Please be a little frivolous and join in on a proposal you really agree with!" That's what I challenged the representative Myraune and Right on. In the Progress Party we discuss a little how fast it is important to become the world's largest property company. Perhaps we have a little better time to become owners of several tradesmen in London or Paris — or Poland. Even in New York, we're now going to start buying gifts, because it's great and nice to invest money in properties abroad. Then the Progress Party says: Let's spend a little more of the money that the majority put into shares, bonds and – not least – in handcuffs around the world, building infrastructure in Norway. We have been documented by the NHO, Cambridge Systematics International and others that investing in infrastructure in Norway is one of the best things we can spend the money on. It's the best investment. So the oil fund has given 2.5 pst. returns in the year during the last 10 years. Cambridge Systematics International says that if you had invested the money in the right transportation projects on the way, we would get back 3.49 kroner for every dollar we invest. The oil fund or shares abroad or tradesmen in London, Paris, or soon New York, may not succeed. Investing in the way is profitable. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that instead of simply pushing the bill onto the drivers – in addition to all the other taxes and taxes already paid by the drivers – it is spending a little more money on it and a little less money on becoming the world’s largest property company. It'll take a little longer, but I'm convinced that we're going to be the world's largest property company anyway, because we're taking in so huge sums of oil, and so we had a surplus last year of almost 380 billion. kr. Then maybe we can wait a little while to get the largest in the world on property, and rather spend the money on our residents in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1099	It is quite interesting to listen to Hoksrud’s last post — and in addition, it aims to sit in government with the Right. One can only wonder what kind of economic policy we will have with the Advance Party and the Right in the Government – if that were the case. In addition, toll and road debates need to be little challenging for the Progress Party to participate in. It's the exact same wording every time, in every single post, in every single line. The only thing that changes is essentially numbers and place names. You could say there are three ways to pay for it: one is that the drivers are on the way. The alternative is to increase taxes, so that everyone has to be involved in paying for the road – or you take it from the oil fund. It has previously been mentioned here that the Nord-Trøndelag does not have any indication of how much it will cost with four fields throughout the county, the same applies to Hedmark. Four fields shall be built throughout the whole county no matter how large the volume of traffic. So they don't have that number, but it's just getting from the oil fund, the Pension Fund, there's no problem at all. Our main concern is a responsible economic policy. It is important for interest rates and interest rates, which are again important for the export industry, which are important for jobs and for maintaining a strong welfare country. The most important thing of the Advance Party is tolls, and that is what separates us from the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1112	The representative, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1115	I just have a very brief comment. If that's the way it's supposed to be about 100 billion. I wonder what the total bill for removing logs and building four-field roads across the country is, and how much the Progress Party has actually intended to contribute to the revised national budget for spring. I would like an answer to that question. Then I find that the Progress Party is still very happy for all the development of roads, but they continue to vote against. Then there will be – with all due respect to report – just talk. Can the Progress Party guarantee that if the Advance Party comes into government for the harvest, it will not be tolled with the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1126	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1140	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1149	Aviation plays a very important role in ensuring that we have a well-functioning society. Avinor’s societal mission is to own, operate and develop a nationwide network of Airports — and also air navigation services. Aviation shall provide an efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport system with good access for all. In addition, the transport system shall meet society’s transport needs and promote national and regional development. In the large and complex transport image, we have here to countries by far the most closed in the organisation and operation of aviation, precisely when it comes to achieving the goal of an efficient and secure transport system. Nevertheless, new times also involve new demands and new solutions. Not least this aviation, which has a very important national role in our long-term country, but also more than other forms of transport are part of the international. The representative proposal we are today invited to debate has the title Modernisation of Norwegian aviation, and several of the sub-proposals that are being put forward here naturally belong to the home in such a discussion. However, I have to say that it is a bit wrong for me to go all the way to the depths and take individual decisions today when, later in our meeting, we come to the Grand Council on the National Transport Plan for the years 2014-2023 – and as a matter of fact, there is a message about the company in Avinor. Both of these major issues will be about the future aviation policy, and I believe that decisions on future aviation will be taken in that context. This applies, inter alia, to: the proposal to separate the air navigation division from Avinor. The question is to be considered in the Ministry of Transport, and it is for us to address it in the upcoming big business report in Avinor. With regard to the proposal for stronger Nordic cooperation for air navigation, a Joint Committee has noted that Norway has taken part in international cooperation by joining NEFAB, including: Finland is also included. Int. 25 S for 2012–2013 on the case there is a strong desire to integrate NEFAB and the Danish-Swedish air block. So the government is actively working to achieve such integration, and we parliamentarians can do our part in that process in order to achieve such a common Nordic air block. Two weeks ago, I attended the Nordic Council's meeting in Reykjavik. There the question was raised from the Norwegian side, and the Industry Committee – as it was called there – concluded that this should be a priority area. On behalf of the «committee», I was then commissioned to draw up questions for the Nordic governments through Sweden’s Minister of Cooperation, Minister of Commerce Ewa Björling. This will be taken up at the Nordic Council meeting in Stockholm in April. Questions about the joint Nordic Air Block on Air Safety could cover important areas such as competence, technology development and organisation, and I believe that Nordic Parliamentary Assembly if this could really do the trick to achieve the desired result. With regard to the issue of the establishment of a simpler customs handling system for air passengers in transfers at Norwegian airports, the Transport and Communications Committee stresses that simplification in this field will be very positive for passengers and the Committee is of the opinion that it will make Norwegian airports more attractive. It is a working group that now aims to find time-saving and streamlining changes in the current system of customs handling for air travellers in transfers at Norwegian airports. This is probably a complex question, where the security aspects in particular need to be addressed in a good way. Although it would be right to wait for the broad-based working group's recommendations, I would like to stress that a joint committee wants a solution that will make this easier for travellers. With this in mind, I would like to propose to the minority that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1177	The representative of Magne Rommetvei has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1180	This is a good initiative and a good proposal from the Christian People's Party. It is good that the Christian People's Party is now more in line with the Advance Party in important fields of aviation policy. I say this on the basis that in 2008 the Progress Party asked for – and later has also asked for – its own notification on aviation because we believe this area is receiving too little attention in the context of the national transport plan. At that time and later, the Party of Advancement has been rejected by the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left and, of course, also by the government parties. But the world is moving forward, including in the field of aviation policy. The attitude we are discussing today shows that there is a majority in the Transport Committee consisting of the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party. Aviation is particularly important in Norway. Air transport is modern public transport – efficient, safe and environmentally friendly. Demand for air transport is increasing both in Norway and to and from Norway. At the same time, aviation is in the process of global development. It also enters Norway, which is why it is time for new grips in Norwegian aviation. Today's main model, based on the organisation of Avinor in a state-owned company rather than as an establishment, is a good model. The Progress Party will also use that model in the road and rail sectors. But the Avinor model can and should be improved. Different activities should be separated into separate companies and, in the view of the Progress Party, it has not been given that all companies should be owned, in whole or in part, by neither Avinor nor the State. Diverging air navigation services and strengthening Nordic cooperation will help to make air navigation activities more robust and to avoid manning crises, which have plagued Avinor in this field, in fact, from 2005. Otherwise, I expect that the big news about Avinor's business, as the government announced later this year – by the way, it should be here soon. The objective of the Progress Party is clear: no delays due to lack of air traffic controllers. We in the Progress Party can actually enjoy ourselves. Today, we are delighted with the news that Avinor has posted online that they are hiring foreign air traffic controllers to Oslo Control Center – in line with the long-standing call of the Progress Party. We're happy about that. Customs treatment is a separate chapter. It is an important chapter, not least in the light of increasing international traffic. It's an important chapter because we have strange, strict rules. The Progress Party will have a system in place that is practised abroad, i.e. that travellers from abroad required to proceed on domestic flights can have easier baggage management. Once identified and cleared, its own baggage must be capable of directly accessing tapes. Travellers must be able to go directly to the departure hall without new safety clearance. Today’s regime delays travellers, and – not least – today’s regime increases the volume of travellers in security controls, especially on the Gardermo. We all know that the costs associated with today's security plans are well above a billion dollars. There is therefore a basis for looking at changes that can both save time and save costs. The Progress Party is aware that a cross-ministerial group has ‘looked’ at this, but we have the impression that the work has stopped. That is why I ask the Council of State to respond specifically to whether there is a group looking at simplification, whether it is done with its work, when it may be done, and what is the plan of the Council of State to simplify and improve customs clearance for air passengers coming from abroad to Norway, who are going on abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1193	The rapporteur has presented this matter in a very simple way, including the areas where there is most activity at the centre of the department. He has also underlined the importance of aviation in Norway, and I very much agree with that. No matter how much road and path we build in Norway, we don't know that parts of the geography are such that it's both profitable and practical to have air traffic. The case rapporteur also said that traffic is increasing, both domestically and abroad, and that makes it quite powerful. We could read, at the latest today, that foreign traffic is growing most. There is no particular doubt that this traffic is involved and contributes to the creation of value in Norway in a rather fine way. This setting contains three proposals for decisions. With regard to the first point, it is very important to distinguish airport operations — airport operations — from tower services, which also include en route services. This is strongly supported by the right. We think this should have been done a long time ago. We have had a development in recent years that has caused us to have both a striker and a lack of staff, and that has led to planes having to stand on the ground or being delayed on their routes. Many have been strongly affected by this. At some airports it's very hectic activity, and at some others it's almost not activity at all, maybe just a few movements a day. Now you have to have a crew all day anyway. I worked quite closely with that part of the service in my time in Defense, and it was not free that there were many who had to be on guard, but I knew many times that for the next eight hours it would not come any planes. It's working time that doesn't really get very productive, and that's why it's so important that we get flexibility in this area. It is positive that attempts are now being made at remote control at one of the airports in the West Sea, as far as I know. There may be a system that can also be introduced elsewhere. It has already been introduced in Sweden. But it is also possible for the en route service to have such a type of remote service. In my time in Defense, when I was responsible for that part of the Air Force, I put in place a system where you could sit anywhere in the country and control any flight movement anywhere in the country. It's now ten years since this was introduced into Air Force, and it's time that it's also introduced for civil air traffic, so that you can sit in Bodø and control aircraft coming in against Oslo. It has not been completed so far. It would have been a great advantage. We saw yesterday that Avinor has made an agreement with the Swedish Aviation Agency, i.e. with LVF Aviation Consulting, on staffing in Norway for the summer. That's very good. It's a great development that we really appreciate. The proposal also takes into account that we should have stronger Nordic cooperation, and that is very important. We are aware that both the Avinor and the Ministry of Transport wanted this in the negotiations prior to the NEFAB establishment, but that we did not get together with Denmark and Sweden. We hope that these countries can join us gradually. We know that the first NEFAB meeting was in Oslo last week. We hope that Norway will be active in initiating such cooperation in the future. So for customs treatment, which we also think is a very important matter. I have even come home from abroad several times and stayed standing waiting for my luggage. Actually, it's been easy to get through customs control, but when you get on the other side, it's usually been up to one hour waiting before you're allowed to check in on the next flight, and in many cases you've lost that plane. This is the good reason to do something about it, so I sincerely hope that it happens. There are several countries that have managed to get this to and also several of the other things that are addressed in the proposal. We support the proposal that we ourselves are in favour of, and we hope that the government parties, even if they do not vote for this time, will take these important matters carefully into account in the new national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1208	The case-speaker has done his best for the government party's vision in a brilliant way. I still want to take the word when it comes to a couple of things that I think are interesting. The one thing is in view of the previous debate, where we discussed veggies and tolls and veggies and tolls in mind. The debate illustrates the use of money for the Progress Party there: no priority, hundreds of billions of dollars. The second is that now is also the Progress Party to spend a lot of money on the train. It's positive in itself. So the third is Avinor and the construction of airports, which are also going to get the money you want. What I was thinking about then was that this is Spain, this is Spanish disease, not the old one, but the one that's been in Spain now, where you spend money on everything possible without thinking that you have to prioritize. So you're building airports for billions of dollars, which turns out to have seven daily passengers. It says itself that it cannot go. So you're building a lot of highways, and you're building a lot of lightning trains, which are also going to compete with each other. Then one sees what has happened to progress party policies in practice in Spain. It goes in dass. That's what it does when you think market forces are going to take care of everything, and they don't have an ideological profile, just raw populism, and they have to say yes to everything that people demand. Syringe yes, but also syta to answer that we have the answer to all things, without us having to prioritize anything at all. I also have a livery with the use of oil money, it knows the Progress Party very well, but then I have done it with a priority and a possible financing model, so let the one in Switzerland on the train. So one might say that Spain has been ruled by social democracy. Yes, it is partly right, but as they know, when it comes to Norwegian social democracy, the social democracy we had in 2000-2001, which privatised Statoil and brought about health reforms, etc., and the social democracy we have today, which is influenced by two other parties. But the main challenge I think the Progress Party must respond to, not just say yes to everything that is expensive – road, rail, airfields – and not be responsible for one actually also having to give priority to one or another mode of transport. A priority should be chosen, but they should be visible to the selector that they are a priority for some transport plan. Then I think there will be four-field highways – until the Kirkenes was at least the requirement before, but I haven't heard Hoksrud say it today. He might say that if he keeps his posts later. So I want to problemate a little bit about this with Norwegian, which I see that the Christian People's Party, Right and others are out there, i.e. that the air traffic controllers are not supposed to be able to Norwegian. In the long term, it may be possible for one to complete it, but after having had conversations with air traffic controllers on the Sun, such as. I would like to say that there is a certain element of certainty in this, which means that at least we must not do this quickly, because a Norwegian user is part of the language of the tower business. So Nordic cooperation: Of course we are, and the Minister of Transport is working on it. Customs treatment, which was also discussed by the case-speaker, is a matter of course, but we have probably had a little trouble with the fixed department we have to deal with when it comes to fees, etc. But now there's a group that's working to get us a more flexible system in Norway, too. Competition exposure: Yes, it's been tried before to make things cheaper, but I remind you that the Riksrevision pointed out that when road maintenance was put out of competition, it actually became 100 pst. more expensive to operate with road maintenance. Finally, we should also have had a round of social dumping, which is what the Progress Party puts up in relation to Norwegian, i.e. more Ryan Air in Norway. I guess if they got power, they'd let Ryan Air fly in Norway and not SAS and Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1225	Under the Bondevik II government, aviation in Norway was modernised. The former name of the Swedish Aviation Agency was renewed and converted into a State limited liability company. Avinor saw the light of day. Avinor had completely different possibilities than that of the old Aviation Agency. Avinor could develop and make good investment plans for the future. It has given Avinor seniority and freedom to meet a market changing. Success has been so great that even the red-greens, who voted against the renewal, did not reverse this when they took over power in 2005. Now, on the other hand, it is time for new improvements. When Avinor was established by the Bondevik II government, the government wrote to the Storting that «The future structure and organisation of the Aviation Agency must be kept under constant review, including: be seen in the context of structural and market developments in aviation». When they took over red-green, the renewal of aviation stopped. The lack of air traffic controllers, with large delays as a result, is just an example of what happens if one does not adapt to changing market conditions. I therefore welcome the release of the tower services. I mean, it's overdue to separate the air navigation company from Avinor's airport operations. It will improve the safety, it will open up closer Nordic cooperation, and it will increase the availability of skills, among others. air traffic controllers. The goal is fewer delays and a better offer for everyone. Today, there is already good cooperation between Sweden and Denmark in the exchange of labour and competence in aviation. Norway needs to become a more integrated part of this competence market. I also see it as a small saying that Avinor is now involved in hiring air traffic controllers from a Swedish company, among others. to improve the situation for the next summer. In addition, we must also remove the requirement that all air traffic controllers speak Norwegian. What the representative of Langeland has to say here: today, everyone has to speak Norwegian, and there is a strange demand from Avinor when we have a lack of air traffic controllers, and communication is in English. The summer airstrip chaos has revealed that Avinor does not have sufficient organizational control. Avinor needs to clean up in order to get defensive vacations and emergency procedures. We have to avoid creating the same situation again. Then Avinor will use a better toolbox than they have today. Unfortunately, it seems that red-greens are involved in preventing the renewal of competition. At the same time, I want to say that I experience the case spokesman's words that this is something you would like to see in the NTP, and that one in the ownership message will come back to various questions, as a positive signal. I also think it is good that one looks at what goes on about the organisation of travellers from abroad who land at the Gardermoen and will continue to other airports in Norway, that we can get a structure that reminds us of the one we have in Sweden. Security will be guaranteed and customs duties will be taken care of. We have had a working group that has worked well and for a long time on this. I see that the working group comes with a result that gives us a real simplification and improvement. It causes great irritation that it is such that we have to check out the luggage, go through the security check again and check in again. It helps to create bureaucracy and control that turns out to be unnecessary, and other neighbouring countries better solve this. That is why we look forward to a simplification proposal by the working group, and I hope that the Council of State will make rapid changes to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1247	A lot has already been said in this case, so I will carefully explain the vote. The left wholeheartedly supports the three proposals of the Christian People's Party and the other opposition parties. As the committee leader just said, there was a significant modernisation under the Bondevik II government, which has given Avinor great freedom to develop in the modern market. So little has happened since Bondevik II, and the time is absolutely ripe to make the changes that opposition parties are proposing here today. The proposals are therefore supported by the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1254	Avinor is currently responsible for both airports and air navigation services. Air navigation services are currently organised in a separate division. Through its Section 10 plan, delivered to the Ministry of Ownership, Avinor has proposed that the air navigation division be separated as a separate wholly-owned subsidiary. Furthermore, Avinor has an ambition to have a leading position in the North European airspace block, NEFAB, and any extensions thereof. If tower services were to be put out to competition in the future, the company also aims to be dominant in its domestic market. The Ministry of Transport, which owns it, is now considering the proposals submitted by the Board of Directors of Avinor. In this connection, a report has been prepared by the Danish consultancy company Integra. The Intega report shows that the issue of the outsourcing and external involvement of air navigation activities raises a number of questions that will need a more detailed investigation. The Ministry of Transport will come back to these issues as well as the issue of the separation of air navigation division in a separate subsidiary in the context of the Avinor ownership notification. However, the Ministry will point out that Norway has already undertaken international cooperation commitments in the field of en route services through the connection to the North European functional airspace block NEFAB. The Ministry further points out that we have a strong desire for closer Nordic cooperation for the en route services in the future, for example. through the integration of NEFAB and the Danish-Swedish airspace block. With regard to the situation in the air navigation service, the Board of Directors and the day-to-day management of Avinor are responsible for implementing measures necessary to ensure adequate robustness of air navigation services, i.e. in the provision of services. The Ministry of Transport follows this closely as the authority for aviation and as the manager of the State ownership of Avinor. As authority, the Ministry of Transport has designated Avinor as the national air navigation service provider. In connection with the extension of the Decision by the Ministry of Transport last autumn, i.e. in the autumn of 2012, it was also decided that from now on, the Air Safety Authority could ask Avinor to submit plans to ensure that the robustness of the service provision can be ensured and improved. In addition, the Air Safety Authority may now request detailed plans and explanations on how Avinor will ensure the manning of air traffic controllers. Furthermore, the Ministry of Transport introduced a new performance management system in 2012. The performance management system shall measure Avinor’s air navigation services in the areas of charging level and delays in addition to safety and the environment. The Ministry of Transport will otherwise indicate that the Air Safety Authority has recently conducted a hearing on a proposal that Norwegian knowledge be no longer required in order to be able to operate as an air traffic controller in a control centre. That matter is now under consideration by the Air Safety Authority. As a result of the Common Customs Union, the general rule within the EU is that customs handling is to take place at the final destination aerodrome, while EU security legislation ensures that the passenger does not need to undergo security controls more than once during an flight. Sweden and Finland have been exempted from this general rule and have introduced a simplified customs treatment system in Stockholm and Helsinki without the need for a new security check. Simplified customs treatment for passengers coming from abroad, which will continue with domestic flights in Norway, will also be a positive measure for Norwegian travellers. For Norway, the case raises some difficult issues that need to be resolved, not least the possibility of the customs tariff maintaining border controls at the current level as well as the economic consequences of different options for simplified transfers. The Ministry of Transport has therefore, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, set up a wide-ranging working group to investigate this. The group has representatives from the aviation industry, police and customs authorities and is asked to consider different options for changes to the current system. The final report of the working group is not yet available, but the government will decide on the recommendation of the working group as soon as the report is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1281	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1284	Two things – the owner's message, short about it: When does it come? We hope with the question to stress that it should not come to the request of the NTP treatment in Stortinget. It should therefore come as soon as possible. No. 2, customs treatment: How long has the group working on the case been working? That's the one I'm wondering about. The second is, will the conclusion come in the same owner’s message as I requested in the first part of the line? What is the government’s view of the need to simplify customs treatment for passengers arriving in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1291	As regards the question of simplified transfer, it is not possible for me to say with certainty when the result is available. It is difficult to speed up the work, and therefore difficult to say exactly when the government will come back with the question to Stortinget. The government's attitude to the issue will be limited when the government has addressed the recommendations of the working group. When it comes to the question of ownership, I can't exactly fix the time when it comes. I can't say for sure. But it is clear that we want the Storting to be able to deal with those questions, because it is also important for Avinor, and because it has been expressed through a section ten plan, where Avinor’s board has raised a number of measures. But it's hard to be accurate and accurate on date, seafaringly. There are also some aviation and Avinor issues that also need to be addressed in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1298	The President may state that it would have been easy to respond to it, saying that the Storting has set a deadline for all messages in May 1st if it is to be dealt with by this magnification.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1301	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very good article. I agree to say every word. I want to talk about what goes on in the working group. It was set down before summer 2011, i.e. that it has been working for almost two years. So they're looking at how we can simplify air travel, for example. landing at Gardermoen and continuing to another aerodrome. When it comes to the owner's message, do we have an answer from this working group when we get the message in ours? Or is it that we have to wait for a new expansion, and that it will take more than three years from the drop in the working group, until you can get a treatment of this matter in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1308	I'm glad the president can help me with the date of the final deadline, but I still can't advance just when the notice comes. I am aware that if the Storting is to be given the opportunity to deal with it, there is a deadline for that. In the case of simplified transfer, the working group has been working for a while. I don't think there's any secret either that there's a bit of a divided opinion between the different levels of this issue, and that there are aspects of what seem complicated when you look at the different parts of the challenges of the industry and the authorities – especially the customs authorities. It's a goal for the government that we're going to have to deal with it in the spring as well. One possibility is also to brief the Stortinget and give the Stortinget the opportunity to discuss it in the context of the Avinor owner’s announcement. But it has not taken a final position on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1317	The last line goes to Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1320	Then there will be more customs treatment. One thing is to have the goal of having a possible result from this working group that has spent an incredible amount of time, something quite different is to have the aim of getting a simplification in place. I noticed from the statements of the Council of State that the two EU countries Sweden and Finland have been exempted from EU legislation. Then I repeat, what is the ambition of this government? Is there a simplification in the customs treatment for air passengers arriving in Norway – in line with what has been done in Sweden and Finland? I would like to have a clarifying answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1327	It is true that the working group also assesses the very scheme that has been introduced on Arlanda, and looks at the feasibility of introducing it on the Gardermo. It is one of the options we hope to get an overview of when the workgroup report is available. The type of solution that Sweden agreed on could be one option for a positive solution for travellers in District Norway too, but before the government takes a decision, it has to go through the different options from the working group.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1332	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1337	The good thing about debates of this kind is that in clear language they tell us what we are waiting for if the Stortinget against suspicion would get a bourgeois majority and a Right Party-led and Advance Party-led government after the big elections to the harvest. In this case, we are faced with a significant competitive outsourcing and privatisation of the Avinor system – not as a result of a deep and comprehensive analysis of the consequences and alternatives, but as a response to a very boring situation in the context of last year’s holiday settlement. It is – with respect to reporting – a rather strange basis for fundamental changes in Norwegian aviation policy, and it surprises me that the Christian People's Party and the committee leader can promote such a far-reaching proposal, without any consideration for the safety and preparedness consequences of such a change. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have too far elevated the competitive position of public activities to an ideological principle. Now follow the Christian People's Party. It is clear to me that the Avinor system will not survive a government shift. The cross-subsidisation principle, which gives life to most of the country's airports, is now being sacrificed on the altar of competition. In return, either the taxpayers are delighted to cover the airport deficits above the State budget, or airport charges on the short-haul network must be increased sharply. We may also be able to expect that there will be some other airport here and there – preferably in District Norway. It is then quite natural that the Advance Party – with the support of the Right – will also admit underpaid Asian aircraft teams into Norwegian and Scandinavian aviation. The Party of Advances has even the reluctance to believe that, following a 900 consultation round, the government has reached a little thoughtful conclusion – as if the Party of Advances is a particular party with thoughtful solutions to this and hints. Of course, it does not make any impression on the right-wing parties that all Norwegian aviation workers’ organisations warn against further liberalisation of Norwegian rules. The government has chosen to maintain a Norwegian and European regulatory framework, the purpose of which is precisely to protect key jobs in Norwegian and Scandinavian aviation from undermining competition from cheap low-cost low-cost aircraft teams in the East.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1351	It was interesting to hear what the previous speaker said. When I listen to Gullvåg and his fight against social dumping and everything possible, it is at least interesting that he takes it up in this particular debate, where we have a government council that owns a company that has bought up foreign companies, and uses these companies in Norway with local wages in completely different countries. What the Progress Party has said about Norwegian is that Norwegian, like SAS – who flies with partially Asian employees into Scandinavia – should also have the same opportunity on their flights. What really made me take the floor was that I listened to the representative Langeland. I understand that he was not really so interested in discussing what this is all about, but he was very interested in Spanish politics. I often get criticism that I'm discussing and telling how other countries solve at least some of their challenges, but then it must be okay for the representative of Langeland to bear in mind that it was the socialists who have done all that he doesn't like. In 2011 – as far as I have been able to bring about it – it was the bourgeois who took over to clean up the shaking of socialist parties that did not decide what they would actually do in the field of transport. To the representative of Langeland: I can reassure him that the Progress Party is concerned about how we spend the money and that they are spent in a sensible and good way. But when Langeland has $900 billion. kr to high-speed or high-speed trains between the five largest cities of Norway, rather than using part of the money to modernise the railway we have today, the Progress Party would like to see to it that the intercity triangle, the Ringeriksbanen and the Bergensbanen get a speed of more than 200 km/h, instead of dreaming about 300 to 400 km/h, as Langeland is sure to do. We believe that we can also spend a lot of money on cleaning up our road network, because that makes sense. We also believe that it makes sense to spend money on aviation. For many in Norway — especially in North Norway and parts of the West — aviation is the same as the collective offer is for many in Oslo. These are important things and areas to have full weight on, and I'm glad that the Council of State says that at least she should consider it. I had hoped that before the summer we would have a clarification on how to improve customs clearance, so that even people who live elsewhere in the country, and who are going on, don't have to go out and then go back in again to get on to where the journey ends.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1368	The President will recall that it is case No. 5 we have to deal with, and it's about aviation, after what I understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1371	It might seem a little strange that the case spokesman, who actually used his post to say that we should not discuss this now, we should discuss this when we have NTP and the owner's message about the company in Avinor, would nevertheless thank you for the debate. I think the debate has been good. In fact, we have been made clear that we have modern aviation in Norway, we have followed up our developments, and there is a broad deal on what important things we need to invest in in the future. Therefore, I thought that the debate has also shown that the claim that everything has stopped after this government took over falls on its own. It has never been as much activity in aviation as it has been in recent years. Aviation is well – without talking about other modes of transport – one of the most proud of which is transport, both in Stortinget and in others. One example I heard about now was that CNN, or who it was, was at the Gardermoen to create a big TV series and show the world's best winter maintenance at the airport. It's also part of this. I think we should send a thank you up here, not just to ourselves for all the good we have done, and all the good we're going to do in the owner's message and in the NTP, but also to all those who work in aviation, who are really dedicated and on the verge because we're going to have a good deal. It also shows that we are modern, that we are developing, and even more steps in this development will come in the owner’s message and hopefully also in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1380	Just as the representative Hoksrud found my post interesting, so I found his posts particularly interesting. Interestingly, the right-wing parties allow themselves to criticise the government for not exempting it from the foreign regulations and allowing cheap flight crews from the Far East to operate in Norwegian airspace, as it clearly tells what principles they themselves would stress when designing new aviation policies if they were to be so misplaced that they came into position. Access to cheap foreign aircrew is not just Norwegian rules, guidelines and workplaces; social dumping is put in place. That's how the right parties draw the future of international aviation. And those who don't follow the path to Ryan Air and Norwegian, they don't have the right to life, according to these parties. Now that Norwegian is threatening to flag out in protest against Norwegian framework conditions, I actually wish them luck on the trip. It is still good that the EU now seems to take the initiative to break down certain principles for the working conditions, belongings and tax conditions of its employees in the aviation industry. Anyone working in the Norwegian aviation industry should note this. Those who release a ballot in the urn at the time of the autumn for the benefit of the right parties cannot particularly appreciate their jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1389	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1405	Intercity is important to the whole country. It's a national lift. The Council of State opinions last summer and now also the postponement of the national transport plan, as well as the latest cost-benefit calculations of the intercity triangle, have created uncertainty about what the government really wants. With reference to the previous case, I can tell you what the government's red-green railway policy now looks like if you sit for 12 years. This means that the speed should be reduced, that stations should be shut down, that one should build less good solutions for the stations, that new projects should take a long time to plan, that it should take a long time to build and preferably in an extra expensive way, and that maintenance is not always very dangerous. The Council of State has also stated that lightning or high-speed trains must wait because intercity comes first. What kind of double communication is this? The definition of fast trains is just 250 km/h, so there's every reason to ask if the Council of State has got this. Has Stortinget ever asked for its own rails and tracks where to run so-called ‘unswift’ trains? The answer is no. On the contrary, the size has asked that when new lines are built for the future, they should be built at a speed of 250 km/h by default. The national transport plan has now also been postponed. Before Easter has now become after Easter, and with the shortest possible time before Stortinget splits. For those of us who are on the outside, it seems that we are now seeing the outcome of the struggle between road and rail in the government – or is it that what comes to light is the Senter Party's desire not to build trains and railways, but rather to road? The government boasts about the use of money. At the same time, we see that the results are missing. The government has promised a new Follotunell since 2007, but still it is that the spade is not put in the ground. It won't last. Well the speed of the train is important, but even more important is the pace of the development of the double-track railway in the intercity triangle. From the Right-hand side, it is important that we now put the clamp in place. The socio-economic estimates of double tracks in the intercity area have reached a striking conclusion. Some people have shown profitability in connection with a drug-free charge; others have shown little profitability. With this big crack, the numbers themselves don't get so very interesting. It's impossible to get away from reality. We also know that the development of modern rail standards in the East will benefit all of Norway, not only the East, because Lillehammer is an important part of the line to Trondheim. Vestfold and Telemark will be closer to Oslo, and this will benefit the whole country and be part of a national project. The western part of Eastfold is an important link with Europe, which binds Norway to the continent, and vice versa, as well as this is crucial for important interests such as regional magnification and freight traffic. Society is changing constantly. Areas and regions are growing. Industries are getting stronger, but some industries are also getting weaker. Economic growth can slow down and clusters emerge. In order to provide optimal transport solutions to the best possible extent, this requires that those in charge of the transport sector also dare to change, adapt to society’s requirements and, not least, modernise, think offensively and new. Unfortunately, within this area, we have seen that there has been a shortage of vision or vision. For almost eight years, the government has been implementing road and rail development with the brakes on. It's time to get speed on the sector. We need more and safer roads, but we also need a faster railway. The government has completed, on average, 4 km of railway per year. In particular, in order to speed up the development of the railways, we need comprehensive and effective planning methods. We need to organise the projects that provide flexibility in both planning and development, providing long-term and predictability of funding. Today’s annual budgeting, lengthy planning and clumsy expansion are costing and delaying the projects. I would like to quote the Director of Market and Supplier Development at the Railway Agency, who last week told the Right Railway Seminar that ‘we have built too slowly and too expensive’. It's an honest and courageous admission. But it also suggests that we need both a necessary modernisation and a different type of thinking in the transport sector. In the right we want shorter and better planning, we want to modernise the railway system and the state road system, and we want to spend more money. The latter also assumes that we are able to use the funds smarter and among other things. end with the clumsy and expensive expansion that we see on both rail and road today. Every day, travellers depend on the railway to get to and from work, studies, job interviews, treatment, etc. This is everyday life. Every day, the business community depends on a railway they can trust, so that goods and other goods come to and from the markets. Right wants to set a deadline. The right is serious about the climate objectives and the reconciliation. The government wouldn't set a year. The right-hand side says that the entire intercity should be expanded by 2030 and preferably before. We also need to set up a new Oslo tunnel. It is well supported, it is well documented: the trains are already in line today. It is necessary to commit to a date of completion for the development of double tracks in the East, both in batch programmes and in the treatment of the national transport plan. The transport practices say they can build it in ten years. 80 pst. train journeys in Norway take place in the east. Capacity is under intense pressure. Population growth has become a real challenge for the entire Eastern region, and in the next decades, passengers by train and car will have to cover themselves in line, cork and chaos if the expansion of double tracks in the intercity area in the East is not realized quickly enough. Business – with goods and goods to and from the markets – needs this, not only in the eastern part of the country, but throughout the country. It's new, it's positive, and it's important that all the parties now talk about intercity and say that this needs to be prioritised. However, promises are worth more if they are accompanied by a commitment to a date of completion and an obligation to prioritize intercity in respect of other transport projects. It's been granted 68 pst. more money for rail from 2005 to 2011, but still the train is standing, the overhead contact lines are falling, and the signalling systems are failing. The term ‘silver in barrel’ pales and ‘silver’ faints. The Central Statistical Office reports that Oslo, Akershus and Rogaland will have the country’s strongest population growth in the future. We're talking about over 30 pst. growth towards 2040. The impact assessment for the intercity triangle shows that it is possible to implement the rapid deployment of double tracks, but in order to cope with this, the economic framework for the railway needs to be increased drastically. It requires an increased financial framework for the Railway Agency and binding decisions on financing over many years. In addition to the change in the funding regime, such a step also requires faster deployment of the railway with more efficient planning processes. Today's plan may take nine to ten years. It is then completely impossible that a project as comprehensive as intercity can be completed by 2025. In order to speed up the development process, the planning process also needs to be streamlined. It is absolutely necessary that municipalities, county councils and the state together review how the planning period can be minimised and that these measures be implemented immediately. In order to speed up the intercity, it is also crucial to change the current funding regime. In order for intercity with double tracks to become a reality, we need to take the difficult debate on the financing of large development projects. Today, rail development suffers from funding based on annual budgets. This has led to considerable delays in the development and time-lag of individual projects, as well as considerable uncertainty for contractors with the significant additional costs involved. It is not possible to achieve an efficient development without a change to the funding regime that can ensure long-term agreements between the country and the developer. The government sends double signals a day. On the one hand, it is said that the level of investment will increase in the next national transport plan. On the other hand, it is said that many will be disappointed. The government has started planning several projects, but has been short on progress in the construction itself. The Minister for Transport, with his opinions in the summer of 2012, created a lot of uncertainty about intercity development.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1456	Let me first say that the railways are an important part of the solution to the transport needs that the expected population growth in Norway will provide. Railways are going to be an important part of the solution to a more modern transport system and an essential part of the solution to transport challenges, especially around the major cities. There's no doubt about it. This government has recognised it, and therefore the appropriations for the Railway Agency and for the purchase of passenger transport services by train have increased sharply over the years since that government took over in 2005. The government is in the process of modernising the railway. For those using the railway, it will mean that new trains will be put into service with good comfort, coming and going according to the timetable, and that one has a modernised and functional infrastructure. No matter how the railway sector is organised or financed, it depends on the state budget appropriations. The government implemented a significant commitment to the operation, maintenance and renewal of the railway infrastructure during the planning period from 2010 to 2013. It has contributed to a more operationally stable train traffic than before, and punctuality has been much better in 2012 than in many, many years. So there's still a lot of work to do to upgrade an old and worn-out railway infrastructure and, not least, to implement new, large investment projects to increase rail capacity, so that we can get more and faster trains. The government's proposal for a government budget last autumn meant an increase in the investment budget for the railway by 1.4 billion. NOK 6,1 billion in total. kr. In comparison, the 2005 allocation, when the representative Schous party joined the government, was less than 2 billion. kr. That is to say, the increase in the rail budget from 2012 to 2013 was almost as large as the entire investment budget for the railway at the time when the Right was last in government. The large increase that one has committed to in 2013 has been absolutely necessary in order to continue the work on many large and small railway projects now under way. This applies, inter alia, to: the development of double-track parallels on the Vestfold track and on the Dovrebahn, which will be part of the intercity development of those routes. The expansion of intercity is not something we're going to start right away. There's something the government has already started up. During this government we started the construction of double tracks between Barkåker and Tønsberg, between Holm and Nykirke and between Farriseidet and Porsgrund on the Vestfoldbahnen. At Dovrebanen, double tracks are being built at the same time as new E6 along Mjösa, and the planning of new double tracks between Oslo and Ski is under way, so that the work can be carried out quickly. As Minister of Transport, I think that is very positive. I also think it's important that it continues, and I can't see that I've ever expressed doubts about the realization of intercity. The government is also concerned with upgrading and increasing the capacity of routes outside the Oslo area. In 2013 it is therefore planned to start the work on a new tunnel through Ulriken on Bergensbanen and also to build a double track with a new bridge over Stjørdalselva between Hell and Værnes on Trønderbanen. The transport infrastructure is also vulnerable to some of the things we can see in the years ahead in terms of extreme weather, race, disruption of telecommunications networks and possibly terrorism. Therefore, in the allocation of transport research for the current year, we have also prioritised social security related to railway infrastructure. When the red-green government took over in 2005, there is no doubt that we took over a rather worn-out railway. The projects and investments the government has started have been very important. This also applies to the project called the Oslo Project, which was launched in 2010, which has helped to renew a good part of what is related to the area around Oslo S and the entrance to Oslo Tunnel. Unfortunately, this has meant that one in the last two summers has had to close Oslo S for a few weeks in order to carry out very extensive renewal work. It is clear that when you are working on transportation, and you as a politician are busy with transportation, it can sometimes be frustrating that it takes time from you to give a clear signal to start a project, and until you see the results of your efforts. One reason is that more than for any other mode of transport, the railway depends on a continuous development to see the results. A good example of this is the West Corridor, which was launched in 2001, under the government in which the representative Schou was put, which took a long time to implement. It also means that it takes a long time to see the results of the development, because you can't take advantage of travel time, departures and regularity until you have had a continuous development. For this reason, this government for the later projects – Vestfoldbanen, the track along Mjösa, which is being built today and the upcoming Follobanen – has also focused on a coherent expansion and rational progress, so that results can quickly be obtained from the development. I find it a little difficult to understand when you say that there is no rational development of the projects that are now in progress. They're fully funded for rational expansion. This applies to both the Farriseid and the route down the Westfold track and Langset-Kleverud. Then I also have to add that despite the fact that train traffic is doing better, there is a lot left. This winter too, rail transport around the big cities has not been completely problem-free, especially in the Oslo area. People may be late for work because of infrastructure errors or train equipment failures. It shows that it is still necessary to focus attention on the maintenance and renewal of the existing infrastructure. In addition, this means that the capacity of NSB’s material needs to be increased in the years to come. The government has given the NSB the opportunity to purchase 66 new trains. This will be an important contribution to providing passengers with a better offer in the future. From April this year, the NSB will be delivered a new train every 3 weeks for several years. I have previously answered questions about Alnabru in this room. I have to say I'm a little surprised when the representative Schou says Alnabru is waiting. The Ministry of Transport has commissioned the Railway Agency to find a solution for Alnabru that can be realized earlier than the original plans indicate and that it is possible to expand the terminal as much as possible in line with expected demand developments on the freight side. In terms of speed standard, it's hard to advance something. However, I think it is important to say that the most important thing for the transport around the cities is not necessarily how high the speed of a path is theoretically, but how long the journey takes. The Ministry of Transport has asked the Railway Agency to look at the differences in travel time that can actually be achieved at a design speed of 250 km/h compared to 200 km/h on the intercity routes for intercity trains that are to stop in most cities, and for high-speed trains that may only have to stop in a few cities. First of all, you have to build as straight lines as possible, but I don't think it's necessarily as wise to let a principle of 250 km/h lead to stations in cities like this. Tønsberg or Fredrikstad is located several kilometers outside the center, because the line must be as straight as possible. This is one of the examples we have asked the Railway Agency to get a closer look at. How we intend to meet the further transport needs of population growth, how we intend to ensure that the growth of passenger transport in the major cities in the future will take place by environmentally friendly means of transport, what kind of strategy the government has for transferring goods from road to sea and rail, and how and when the government will continue to develop the intercity sections, the government will come to the big news of the national transport plan, which will be presented to the Stortinget in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1494	I note that the Council of State would prefer to talk about anything other than the basis of the intercity triangle, which is a national project, not just for the East, but for the whole country, and whether she can guarantee her willingness to build new tracks, set a date and lay the basis for 250 km/h. I also think I need to inform the Council of State that the Bondevik II government took over a very worn-out railway – after many decades, and therefore the appropriations increased by 60 pst. Despite the fact that today's government boasts that it has granted 68 psts. more, the results are not available. The trains are standing, the signalling systems are still out of service, and travel time is on very many distances longer than it was in 1975 – more than five minutes on the way from Ashim to Oslo. Despite the fact that stations are laid down, and you should be able to drive faster because you are driving past stations, travel time is much longer for a lot of people. The value of the money is hardly any one who can say that you get in the eastern region in the morning and afternoon rush hours. I am very pleased that the Alnabru terminal has been started by the government. It happened at the same time as the interpellation was promoted about the same thing that I did earlier this year. The Folloban is planned from 2007 and is still at the planning stage in 2013. It says something about the fact that after almost eight years the government has had many good opportunities to do something about the planning system, the funding system and the whole idea of starting with creative, modern ideas and solutions as a development company. We have experience from Avinor, which we have just discussed, which could be a starting point for a model. It's very good with new trains – 66. It's just that the NSB alerts that the need is 100. The Oslo Tunnel is tight. You're in line. Any reference to this type of problem is answered by the government: the next national transport plan, not present, not modern, new issues, not new solutions. It is constantly being pushed on to the next national transport plan, which will come sometime before summer and after Easter. The main railway station in Oslo has been closed for two summers, without us seeing that it has had any effect so far. Is there such a long-term planning that is needed to see the results only in ten to twenty years, but not now? No one can explain it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1509	As I tried to say in my response to the interpellant, modernising and expanding the railway is very central in the years to come. No other mode of transport is more suitable to enlarge the working regions around cities than the railway. The railway may facilitate an increased level of commuting and may reduce the pressure problems in major cities. Then I pointed out in my reply to the interpellant that since the red-green government took over, the appropriations for the railway have doubled. The investment appropriations have tripled. The Brotherhood of all the double tracks built in the Norwegian railway system, from the day one started to have railway in Norway, until today, is built under the seated government. So it's a completely different railway-Norway we see now, than what you saw just a few years ago. The government is about to reverse the development that has been taking place for many years, from a rail system that has been worn out – now we see a Norwegian railway at full speed in the future. The projects launched in the intercity area are in full progress. There is no delay or lack of rationality in the development of the routes between Barkåker and Tønsberg, between Holm and Nykirke, between Farriseidet and Porsgrund and between Langset and Kleverud. The Folloban is also under full planning and soon ready for launch. It is clear that intercity development will also have a central place in a new national transport plan. But I think it's a little premature to demand the timing of intercity development just a short time before the government is going to present the national transport plan. We shall come back to that question in its full scope when the Stortinget is presented with its national transport plan. Then I want to point out that the development of the railway is important elsewhere in the country. It is very important that a new tunnel, Ulriken Tunnel, be set up in the Bergens area, which can contribute to a better rail service around Bergen. It is also very important to develop and electrify the railway in the Trondheims area. I also believe that the Stavanger area, the double track between Stavanger and Sandnes, is very important, and also the Salt pendulum, which has also been taken care of. I have to be allowed to comment in the end: if the problems are as acute as the representative Schou here gives the impression, and it is so insensitive to new proposals, I am surprised that the Right in his alternative budget last autumn did not include any additional proposals concerning the railway and railway operation other than a lift in Holmestrand to 15 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1524	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for raising this debate and for having another opportunity to discuss the railway. I want to start there the interpellant started, namely with the seminar that the Right had last week. In the evening post, we could read the headline: ‘Are turning the rail Norway on its head’. The so-called bureaucrat at the Railway Agency – at this seminar – almost enchanted the assembly with its message about what is now being done to build an efficient railway faster and cheaper than we have done so far in Norway. The article also refers to how new political gains, increased appropriations and increased political attention are the reasons why we are now seeing a new spring for the railways, to a great deal of enthusiasm for the people we meet. I am happy the right-wing people at the seminar were excited about the railway and how it has evolved while the Workers' Party has been in government, where there has been no fear of using new and modern solutions to build more railways faster. We get that done when the increase in the rail budget of the year is equal to the total investment budget last Right in government. This year, the Council of State was involved in four major double-track projects in the intercity triangle. By comparison, there was one project, new double-track Lysaker-Asker, the last right in government – which they managed to keep going. That's a difference. It's not just more money, it's also being built more railways. That'll give you results. As an example of the innovation: No, Follobanen has not started, it's a lot about planning challenges, but Follobanen is in total the largest transport project Norway's history has seen – 20 billion. I'm talking about kr. It's a project. When the last government started Asker-Lysaker, it was split up into three subprojects. It is the Labour Party and the Government that are renewing Norway. The interpellant, like me, is busy building out intercity as quickly as possible. The representative Schou will ask when. That makes sense, and it's repeated to the boring: we're going to present our intercity strategy when we present the new national transport plan, as we've also said before. When we're going to make a plan for all state transport projects over the next ten years, it goes without saying that that's where we're presenting our policy for the next ten years. That intercity will have a very central place in that plan is for sure – we'll be back in time. We're also going to expand distances of 250 km/h plus, which we're doing today on the Westfold track. At the same time, estimates show that time savings are minimal, but the differences in costs of some sections can be large. That's why I think there might be reason to think twice about some distances. Then the Workers' Party is concerned about how intercity can be the first expansion of high-speed trains between the big cities, and then speed is relevant. But it has to be allowed to use your head and see if the effects are actually what you assume, at what price. That's what we've done. This question too, we will come back to in the national transport plan, but we are currently building sections that are dimensioned for 250 km/h, and we are going to do it in the time that comes. We were several who reacted – and not only positively – as the quality assurance of intercity came a few weeks ago. Some of the conclusions I believe are good grounds for questioning, but it is completely irrelevant. The representative Schou was out quickly and called this an order shop from the government. I believe that she should complain to serious, independent institutions, like TØI and Dovre, for having questioned their integrity, the second to insinuate something like that to the government. However, what I thought was most eye-catching about the right reaction to the quality assurance, was that it seemed as if they were willing to ignore it completely. Here we're talking about investing in 135 billion. kr of taxpayers’ money – and they completely dismiss it. I had expected something else from the Right. It may be that quality assurance providers have some points and comments to consider – among other things. recording of the significance of the Oslo tunnel for the train run. We're in the process of intercity expansion at a much greater rate than before. The new national transport plan will have a major impact on passengers and goods transport on these routes. I would like to thank the interpellant once again for having this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1552	I also think it is an interesting debate. It's interesting to register the representative Schous approach, but first I want to start with the council. The council said instead that the Farriseidet, the Dovrebanen and other sections were fully funded. That is not true, as far as I have read from the State budget. For example: At Eidanger, it's set at 400 million. NOK, and in NTP it was set by approx. 3,6 or at the base of 4 billion. kr. Now the double-track bill is $6.8 billion. kr. The Dovreban is probably not fully funded either. But now we'll see when a new national transport plan comes from the government – at some point. I very much agree with the Council of State: the most important thing may not be how fast you can get the train to drive, but how fast people are transported from A to B. So there are some limitations. Especially on the Vestfold track, we know that believing that the train will run 250 km/h is almost like believing in Christmas. I think that's the way -- I've calculated -- that maybe for eight minutes you have any chance of getting up in 250 km/h. Maybe one should dimensionalize and make sure that the train runs at over 200 km/h? For all those who drive by rail from Porsgrund to Larvik, it will be a revolution. Driving for 150 to 180 km/h will be a revolution as well. Today it goes for 20-30 km/h. I want to challenge the right a little bit. Ingerd Schou must tell me – when she's going to have her final post – what Right really means, for in a few months I've become a little uncertain. The right demanded that the government pressurise the expansion of the intercity triangle. The Progress Party fully agrees with this. Then a few weeks went by, and then you decided that you can't expand the entire intercity triangle in the next national transport plan period, we also have to expand the Ringerix and Bergensbanen. Yes, that's important too, but I thought you agreed to expand the intercity triangle as soon as you could. And a short time ago, I – again – registered that the Right Leader was out and said that the government had to put pressure on full intercity expansion – without delay. The representative Ingjerd Schou said here instead that the railway company has said that you can build up full intercity in ten years. But the right is saying that you need the time until 2030 -- it's 16 years old. If it's important to build the intercity triangle now and get done with it as quickly as possible, we have to find the money to get it done. The Progress Party and the Left agree, and we have the aim – we have proposals here in this Chamber – that by 2025 full intercity development should be in place. It's ambitious, but it's an ambition we share, and we're happy that the Left agrees with the Progress Party. Then we'll see what the government actually comes to when we get that far. It's important to make sure that we get started with the intercity expansion. Yeah, there's a lot going on in the intercity area, and that's good. But that's how population growth is already here, and it's coming at a high rate in the next few years. Then we have to meet it. Shall we continue to do as we have done for many years – run after? Or are we going to start meeting it and lie in front of it? If you think you're going to lie in front, you're going to have to start building out, and you're going to have to start building out quickly. It is at least the Progress Party willing to do. Some were in planning time. We must reduce the planning time – I fully agree with that. Now we've had a red-green government for almost eight years, and we've had three Central Transport Ministers in the Red-Green Government, and it's been talking about cutting planning time all the time. Not least the last state council has said that they're going to do something about it. Yes, then I am happy at least until the NTP comes, and I hope that there will be proposals that really reduce the planning time. It is very simple: the solutions have been obtained from own samples that have been reduced and that have finished their work a long time ago. So you can't get your finger out and make sure you put it into life, and I'm going to challenge the government council: why is it so hard to get what you have good and concrete solutions to – how to cut your planning time. It's very simple: it's just to do the planning on a larger scale, and maybe make sure to cut out one of the KVU/KS1 or KS2 rounds, just to be done quickly – that would be very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1574	Large parts of our network were built out when you competed with horses. And the history of the railways in Norway over the last decades is more treacherous than any love story could have been. The government after government, with a changing political colour, has fed the railroad, which has lost market shares to the car. The railway was not on the political agenda. I remember that when we in SV in Vestfold made double tracks a major feature in 1989, we were the only party that talked about railway. A double track parcel was built that was finished in 1998, and there was a bomb stop. It was only when SV came to the government that there was a new speed on the railway development. As has been said here, the appropriations for maintenance have been greatly increased. The investment has tripled to 6.2 billion. kr, while it was SEK 1.3 billion. kr under the previous government. Thus, only the increase in investment budgets from 2012 to 2013 is greater than the total investment framework of the government in which the representative Schou was a member. But we're going to take back too many lost years. It is still easy to draw a dark picture of the conditions of the railway and it is easy to agree that the reinforcement of the railway is not sufficient. I want to say that SV's big saying is not only that the appropriations have gone up, but that the railway has come on the political agenda. Now even talking to the Right about the railway. Of course, this is due to massive pressure from commuters, organisations, communities, environmental movements, LO, NHO, etc. – a massive extra-parliamentary pressure to strengthen railway development, and that is good. We're building lightning trains today in my county, Vestfold. The Holm–Nykirke line is built for 250 km/h. The development of the double track on the intercity route is the first stage of a future south-west runway from Oslo to Stavanger to reach Stavanger in three hours, a route that will reach over half the population of Norway. When the rest of the intercity triangle is to be expanded, there may be distances where it's difficult, as has been said by several, to build for 250 km/h, but the rule obviously has to be what the Storting has assumed: it has to be 250 km/h which is the base. It would be terribly foolish not to build for 250 km/h, and later to repent. The climate agreement states that the government of the NTP will present an end date for the completion of the entire intercity development, and that is what I am assuming. There is even a quick completion. In my opinion, this must mean that the development is going to take place coherently. This is about the choice: rail or kitchen? The migration of transport into key struts is also essential to achieve the climate agreement's emission cut target. It is not enough to create a smoother transport by increasing the speed and capacity of trains – no, we also need to turn transport from road to rail and other public transport. The purpose of the Lightning bet is to turn transport from aircraft to runway. That's enough passenger base. Daily 30 flights depart from Stavanger to Oslo – transport that can be moved to the railway. It is important to present this climate policy objective, because I feel that someone is now talking primarily about expanding commuting regions and facilitating longer work trips, that is. that they are engaged in increasing transport operations. If that's all that happens, we've failed. We have projections that show that more than half of the new traffic generated by new double tracks can come from people who use the car today. However, it requires us to maintain and strengthen a restrictive policy on car use in central urban areas. The representative Schou wondered if there was a fight going on between road and rail. Yes, of course it's a struggle between road and rail. It's important that we make sure to prioritize the railways in the central struts here in the country. And it is important that we end the discrimination against the railway that exists today, where road and air traffic are built with current revenues, while the railway does not receive such current revenues. That's what I expect coming into the NTP.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1591	It's been interesting to hear the argument in this interpellation. The interpellant had a long introduction about how bad everything is – that everything is more or less cancelled. There is a situation that I am erased not familiar with after traveling with, among other things. the interpellant around the country, and see what is actually happening within both track and road, on the port side and on the airside – that’s far from right. I want to say in the beginning that in the case of goods, there is a lot left that we have to do. We have some challenges. The paradox is that good roads lead to increased trailer traffic, and that increased competition from low-cost countries leads to a distortion of competition against more road transport, and with vehicle combinations that do not have sufficient equipment to get on the road network that is gradually becoming good — it is a paradox. There's more that has to go into place than just increased appropriations, we probably have to take a few more grips than that. I am therefore very pleased to have a broad social analysis of freight transport as a basis for NTP, before the further effort to get more goods on track and cool. The Alnabru terminal comes into place in a step-by-step development. I myself have been in debate with the representative Ingerd Schou about it in the main hall, so it should be quite well known. Goods on the track also require continued expansion of the long freight tracks around. If we are to transport goods, it is not only internally in the Oslo region, but also on the long distances. It is therefore extremely important to continue to do so. Railway terminals are important for freight handling and need to be streamlined, which has also been mentioned earlier in this room. Intercity is important to effectively move people in the Great Oslo region, and that is what we are doing. The railway has been given a new time, which the government has been behind in order to achieve. It can be seen that punctuality is starting to be good, and maintenance and upgrade have had a high focus. It's interesting that the Right criticises the government for not having high enough ambitions for this. As far as I remember from the state budget treatment that was, there was a lift, right enough, but it was with cuts in maintenance on the railway. It is not entirely consistent with having high ambitions for maintenance. Strong and long-term efforts for the operation and maintenance of the network deliver clear results. After ten years of neglect – or ten years of neglect – I will correct it – of the maintenance of the Norwegian railway system, it was the closest to broken back when we took over almost eight years ago. We've done something about that. Since then, the appropriations for the railway works have doubled and tripled, and we are going to develop it further. The development is reversed: the trains are almost on track, several take the train, there are new trains in place and more and more customers are satisfied with NSB – that’s good news. Collective transport, cycling and walking are obviously the best solutions in cities, while roads, planes and ferries will be the main solution across the country. We have to think more thoughts at once. The railway is and will be important in and around the big cities to transport people to and from work. At the same time, it shall provide a multifunctional function by carrying goods on the long distances. Shorter planning time is something we're all concerned about, and there's a work going on that I have great expectations that we'll see a new model for when we get to the National Transport Plan. As I said, much is done, and even more is going to be in place. The centre party is concerned that we should be able to get a bet that will benefit the whole country in the form of increased good, collective solutions in the city, but also a bet that takes care of the value creation and growth that we want across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1610	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing this important topic. It is particularly important now in advance of NTP – an NTP that will make the government's ambitions visible for the precisely intercity triangle, the triangle usually referred to as the internal fillet of the Norwegian network because 80 pst. of the journeys with the NSB take place in this area. Now, upgrading and reconstructing along these lines is going on, but it's going slowly. One reason for that is of course the price. The development of rail is very expensive, and the new dual tracks in the intercity triangle must compete with other good rail purposes – as we have heard in the debate here today. The interpellant asks how and when the government will ensure double tracks in that area. The left would like to contribute with thoughts and ideas, because in the alternative budget of the Left, we propose to make the intercity development a separate company – InterCity AS. This company will assume responsibility for the development of the intercity project from the Railway Agency and for the planning and development of the sections. In this way, we believe that a new and continuous double track can be completed in 2025. InterCity AS will have 3 billion. kr in equity and an operating item of the State budget of 100 million. kr. In addition, the left will allow the company to raise loans or issue government-guaranteed bonds. In this way, we believe that Norwegian life companies, which today invest large sums abroad, can have a Norwegian alternative for a long-term, safe location of money. The bond model means that the development and upgrading of the railway is organised as a separate investment project. Instead of paying everything on their own, they borrow parts or all of the sum from individuals, businesses, life companies, investors and pension funds. The bonds are, of course, state-guaranteed. This is how people, businesses and businesses want to invest. Not least the life companies are asking for this kind of long-term, safe locations. Money already in the market is channelled into the intercity triangle of the Community project without too much pressure on the economy. The left has proposed this many times here in Stortinget – without the very big breakthrough. If the Minister for Transport sums it up in his summary, it might be interesting to hear her reflections on this proposal. So finally, to the representative of Egeland, who turns to the great heights and boasts of his own party. There I just have to add that no one can take from the Left the proud story. The left built the Bergensbanen for an entire state budget when the left had a majority on the Stortinget. So a big left will clearly be the guarantor of more focus on the railway – there we have the story in our back!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1622	There's been a lot of talk about the Right Railway Seminar last week. I think it's a little special, when you first organise a seminar, that you don't use the opportunity to actually listen to the introductions you've invited. If you had done that, you would have a completely different description of the railway station than the representative of Schou here. They would hear about a strong commitment to the railways, a prioritisation of the railways, a tripling of investments, they would hear about the intercity development that has already begun, important railway projects that have been fought over decades, like the Eidanger thoroughfare, and that got, among other things, Mr. Hoksrud would be glad when the budget was presented. They would have heard that punctuality has risen, and they would have heard of the large organisational grips carried out at the railway station during this government, which lead to both faster and more efficient planning and not least expansion. It has been a rather peculiar experience to follow the debate on transport that has been going on for almost four hours today, and it has been especially to overcome the discord between the Progress Party and the Right that has played out. This includes not only investment on the road but also on the road. There's a disagreement between the two batches about velocity. While Ingerd Schou is critical of the state council's statements that during the next NTP period we will give priority to intercity and not high-speed trains, the Progress Party and Bård Hoksrud applaud the same policy. There is disagreement between the Progress Party and the Right on the organisation and degree of privatisation and the launching of railway competition. There is disagreement about funding: while right-wing cutters in the maintenance budget and pluses on a lift, the Progress Party will have its own railway investment fund, which is considered completely irresponsible. And there is a disagreement about road construction: while the Progress Party is now leading a crossroads for four-field roads – I think it is interesting to say all over the country, I have so far not registered the farthest north of the country – at the same time they criticise the Right for being too passive. If the Progress Party had been able to implement its policy, it would undoubtedly have seriously affected the railway system. There is – and this debate has demonstrated – a great distance between the Progress Party and the Right, and I understand the unwillingness of the opposition parties to clarify the basis for any government cooperation before the elections. Is it going to be a four-field road all over the country? Is it intercity that is the main national project? It is at least impossible after today's debate for voters to predict what a blue-blue transport policy will be like. I thought it was interesting to see that the Progress Party was so concerned about the profitability of the intercity projects when they went out with the Right and criticized the TØI project as they did. I also fully agree with the representative of Kernli that it is very special and really quite disturbing to see that two parties that aim to sit in government are not more interested in getting a broadest possible knowledge base for a decision as important as the future of intercity development. A key prerequisite for Vista and the Railway Agency’s investigation into socio-economic profitability is also the need to gain more control and limit, reduce traffic. They point to the importance of, among other things, carbon pricing to get it into and to get a stake in intercity to become socio-economically profitable. Therefore, I would like to finish my post by asking a question to the Progress Party: When the Progress Party is so concerned about TØI's profitability analyses and is very concerned about Vista and the profitability analyses of the Railway Agency, does that mean that the party has also turned its attention to the issue of cow pricing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1635	Once again we have heard: the last right-wing government, little and nothing happened. I want to remind both the Council of State and others that the last Central Party was in government, it happened even less. And the last working party put in government, it actually happened less than when the Right sat in government last. We did not have one proposal in the budget, it is said. Then I have to be allowed to refresh my memory a little bit. We proposed one of the projects that are completely pottery-ready, and that it is quite incomprehensible that has not already been promoted, namely the Ulrik Tunnel in Bergen as a separate OPS project, and added 50 million. kr for its planning. And then we have 50 billion. kr in a maintenance fund, with 2,5 pst. for maintenance purposes – we only remember it again. The government is betting on the railway. I want to give it recognition – I think it's good. We've agreed on that in this house. During the entire previous period, there was almost a railway settlement, that we were going to bet on the railways in Norway in the future. We even asked for an investigation into how we could build a modern railway in Norway. It was all agreed, except for the Progress Party. It is this which is the governance document in the future. There is also the requirement for 250 km design speed, not because it is to be run at 250 km/h on all intercity sections where it is close between stations, but because hopefully there will also be long-distance trains to use the same network in the long term. It is appropriate that they be able to maintain such a speed – in order to meet the requirement of a high-speed train. Already today, there are major problems of accessibility for both businesses, commuters and local traffic in the regions of the large cities. This is becoming a big problem, which I think – we are good at making a deal in this house – sooner or later we end up having a deal too, because this is going to be so big that it's going to stop. One of the reasons is that we spend too much time planning. Here I want to give recognition to the previous Minister of Transport. She took the initiative to cut down the planning time, look at what we could do with it. We were very clear from our point of view that it is possible to get down to half of what we have today, which is an average of five years of planning. It should be an objective we should all strive to achieve. Then we talk about the Oslo area – fortification, attack, etc. But it's actually not just the Oslo area – it's also the Bergens area, it's the Trondheims area, and it's the Stavanger area. It just hasn't gotten that far that it's become so clear yet. If we look at the demographic change structures that are in progress, it will also come there – in large measure. That's why it's important to act before we get into a disaster. We've said that it's a goal for us to have the entire intercity section expanded by 2030. We think that is a realistic and good goal, but we have to organize ourselves completely differently if we're to achieve it. I want to be very clear on that, too. I miss that a little bit from this government. So they have a Soria Moria statement where they open up project funding – very good – but nothing happens. We have not received anything that reminds us of project funding methods or project organisation methods, despite the fact that the best project developers in Norway are at a seminar after a seminar – where I am absolutely sure that the members of the government parties are also present – and say that this is the solution we are doing. We believe in this. We're going to go in for such models. We want a separate company to take care of the entire intercity development. We also believe that in order to achieve this, we need to organise the Railway Agency as a different administrative seat. Today, it is marked by annual budgets, long-term planning, and by the fact that it is even more complex. This is delaying. It is tempting to quote the railway company's husband again at our seminar: We have built too slowly and too expensive. So that's what the Railway Agency says. Right will have new ideas to get speed on the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1656	There has not been a transport debate – it is about road, aircraft or rail – the last time that the Right has not come with its perhaps not new mantra, which is about modernisation, about modern methods, about OPS, about thinking new, about coming up with new solutions. Some of us actually expect the answers to this from the Right to contain new and modern solutions. The problem is that they don't – the answers contain good old-fashioned right-hand policies. The right thing is the same thing as always: you want more outsourcing, more corporate organization, more AS certification. It's nothing new, although it can also be called New Public Management. I will also refer to the last Right was in the Government – I will not refer to what they did not, but to what was done. The Road Administration’s operational and maintenance department was separated as a separate AS, and the operation and maintenance of the roads were put on tender. As a result, prices rose sharply, and the quality deteriorated. In other words, modern solutions don't have to be cheaper and better. Similar competitive outsourcing processes were also initiated within the Railway Agency. Here was the result that we lost critical competence. We're actually struggling with that problem yet. Neither have the Right’s modern solutions become cheaper – and certainly not better. The answer to what is modern about the fact that private individuals have to finance government investments, which the Right wants in its OPS model, I don't understand. On the right, the company will organise the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency and give them greater freedom within the overall political framework. They will increasingly remove from political governance these key actors within the social sector. At least we who come from the districts should call out a warning. There will be not many transport projects in the districts if priorities are to be more clearly excluded from policy. This applies to both road and track. When the interpellant also says that she wants to give priority to intercity development in front of other transportation projects, I just have to admit that – for me coming from District Norway – all the warning lights are on. However, this may be related to the fact that the Right will finance the construction of a ferry-free E39. Intercity development in the East is an important project, but it is important to note that there are important projects elsewhere in the country. For us in Trøndelag, the Thrønderbahn is our variant of intercity train and important to us. For people in the Bergen–Voss area, Vossebanen is their intercity train and also an important project. I heard the representative Schou say that intercity development is a national project. Does this mean that the representative Schou does not believe that other transport projects in the national transport plan are national projects? There's a question that might be interesting to get answers to. The fact that representatives from the Railway Agency are quoted as having built little, and you have built expensive is not strange. Of course you have, because the railway budgets have been too small – the railway has been hungry. We all know that it has always been expensive to be poor. The fact that it was expensive, and that it was built little, is related to the fact that the budgets were small. Now the budgets have increased, and the results will be completely different. There is therefore no need for right-wing ‘modern’ methods to speed up the development of transport – rail and road – in Norway. No, we don't want that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1677	It is tempting for a representative to take the opportunity – when the Minister for Transport is in the Chamber – to be a little regional and a little local. I have to say that until now this debate has surprised – or at least disappointed – me a little bit. I thought we in this room agreed that we would train. We want to bet on the development of the railways. We'll get to something like that. We here in the metropolitan region, Eastern Europe, can say that we are in line with the objectives of the adopted common land and transport strategy for the Oslo region: ‘a competitive and sustainable’ metropolitan region with an environmentally friendly transport system that ‘ rationally’ links ‘the multi-core region together, to the rest of the country and to the rest of the world’. I think we should have focused on that even a little bit more. It must be allowed to deal with things associated with this whole big debate when you think things are going too slow, or it looks like things are tracking off. The debate is great, and it is more about what we will really do to the challenges of national transport than the blue-blue government statement, although it has been an important topic here today. It's about climate policy objectives and CO2, it's about noise and public health in the regions, it's about the metropolitan region as a region of housing and work that is growing strongly, it's about commuting, it's about strong growth in population, and it's about more than 300 pst. in the years that come. I must also be allowed to come with a little heart attack. It's about a story, a planning story, that's getting crazy long. When I joined the municipality of Oppegård as rapporteur, I had my first acquaintance with this. We created a municipal sub-plan for a new double-track walk through Oppegård – what we are now talking about as Follobanen – which was approved and adopted by the local government on 27 November 1996. I'm about to start making small marks in my office, I think, for the goals. There's reason to remind you, just when I'm standing here, President, that the then councilman in the Uppegård municipality was attending a planning meeting in the Bane East when we were going to talk about this. We were going to take the train from Oppengård and into Oslo to go to this planning meeting for the new double track, and the train did not come. The train didn't arrive, it was 20 minutes late. In order to reach the meeting, the then Councillor and the rapporteur in Oppegård had to take a taxi. When we came to the railway region, we were greeted with a pleasant and warm welcome, and they hoped we had taken the train into the meeting. It was a great experience. There have been further investigations. There was a report on the three lines through Kolbotn with regard to Follobanen in 2006, the Railway Agency’s decision on the concept choice for Follobanen came in 2009, Norconsult has been committed to developing drafts, which existed in 2012, and there have been impact assessments and other tasks that await. The population is wondering where it's going to be right here, what's going on and why it's not happening. It must be legitimate to take up debates of this category here. What is particularly at my heart is the future use of the existing Eastfold Railway in the light of new Follobane. As it looks now, if you don't facilitate the Bryn diagonal, all the growth in transport and freight traffic will go on the existing trains. Between Ski and Oslo there are twelve stations. Most of these stations are the primary collective provision of the population. Already today there are several thousand people living in the noise zone, and especially in the Upper Courtyard, it is arranged for the fortification along the railway, which we have been asked for. Thus, it is planned that freight traffic, which is simply a health hazard, may conflict with the new public health legislation by going through densely populated areas. I haven't seen any active attitude about that, and we're also wondering how it's going to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1695	The President, in his capacity as former adviser in the municipality of Oppegård, may confirm the presentation of the representative Sylvi Graham, in his capacity as former rapporteur in the same municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1698	I see that more of the posts here are talking about the disagreement that must be in a future government, and more about it than talking about your own policy and your own excellence, because the disagreement is quite obvious in that way. The council says it's unreasonable to require a time fixing of completed intercity. I remember that the government had the opportunity in the climate negotiations, because there suggested the opposition in 2025, but the government at all refused to join in on a date fixing. I don't have to polemise that the large invested money that the government boasts about doesn't produce results, it keeps referring to the Riksrevision's report on the same thing: large-scale use of money without giving results. It speaks for itself. Follobanen: 9 bn. kr, 23 br. NOK, maybe 30 billion. kr – it is called out of control. After six years there is still planning and no spade in the earth. Governments are talking about a new spring. Yes, a new timetable for 2012 was delayed and came now. Oslo S has been closed for two summers. No one can correctly explain why there is no improvement. The representative Halleraker has also given instructions to the Council of State on how to read the budget, because there are more things there than to harp on a lift. Right wants modern and new solutions. We want new financial instruments. The government doesn't want it – that is, you talk about it, but there won't be any of it. We want a complete planning and other grip. The report is in the government, but the initiatives and measures are missing, and the government will not. We want the modernisation of the floors. We think they are in good time, but we still want a modernisation and a different type of organisation – it is well known to the government. The government doesn't want it. We also want to assess the development company for road and rail. The government excels so far with its absence in the matter of initiative. So it's going to be cheaper to spend the money. On 14 km of new railway in Westfold, there were seven rigs. The machine contractors are the first to say that this is how the community funds are used – expensive. It's possible to do this differently. It's expensive to rig one rig for every two kilometers. There is every reason to follow the railway and develop it further in the future. I want to thank you for this debate – it will definitely not be the last time we're going to talk about the railway. Railways throughout the eastern region are important for the whole country, because the goods are going to and from, people are going to work, people are going to do other kinds of things – it's a good social economy. But it's the community's money that we're going to use smarter. That's how far it's missing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1713	I have to say that this has been an interpellation where there has not been quite room for the large shades. I think I'll have to say that. The interpellant also attributes things to me that I obviously haven't said – I think that's actually a little sad. I have never said that I believe it would be – what the interpellant said – unreasonable to demand a temporal attachment of the IC. I have said that we will return to that in the natural context it should be discussed, namely at the time of the presentation of the national transport plan. I think that is a somewhat sad side of the debate, and so it is also a debate in which it is a little difficult to get some shades that we all have to deal with. I don't think there's very much disagreement in this room that demography, urban development, climate change and climate policy are going to have a big impact on what society needs to invest in on the railways, especially around the big cities. I don't think either of us really disagree with that, but there are some shades we also need to have room for in the debate. One is that we have to deal properly with the processes that government and large seas have started in terms of quality assurance, and not to say that it is an order shop. It's independent quality insurers that make sense that we're going to have a broad decision base together. The recordings they make don't have to be any truth, but they're there as a piece of a broad decision-making base, and we have to deal with that properly. I also think that at a later stage we have to go through the fact that very much of this explosive in terms of urban population development is going to have the greatest impact on Inner IC. All of the calculations show that. And the interesting thing that came out of quality assurance is, for example, the question of the Oslo tunnel. Clearly, this is a question we need to look at in the future, see if this also has an impact on IC as a project. So I think that's a good point that's been made here from some representatives, that it's been hard to get goods across from road to track. There is a lot of explanation for this — some of which is called the financial crisis, and some of which is also said to have led to tougher competition from roads than it has been in the past. So here I think we also have the basis for a slightly more nuanced approach to the debate than what we have seen today. So many people have talked about alternative financing methods. I've said from this pulpit in the past that there are no simple solutions associated with this, because if you borrow, it's going to be paid back by the state. If you have OPS projects, they must be in government budgets for 30 to 40 years in advance, and if you use private investors, they must either have ownership or a return on their capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1726	That being the case, it is no. 6 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1740	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1749	The representative proposal 8:19 S from Schou, Hareide, Tenden and Hoksrud for the development of a new digital emergency network, where they ask that the government submit a message to the Stortinget in good time before the end of the current landfill session, is, on behalf of the Committee and as the case-rapporteur, a challenging exercise for me to present to the Stortinget. But let me start by saying that the Committee still agrees that Emergency Networks are important for Norway’s preparedness. Furthermore, work on establishing a robust common emergency network based on modern technology is an important contribution to social security and enhanced preparedness in Norway. The Committee also agrees that this matter has been dealt with in Stortinget on several occasions, but there is probably largely the consensus in this matter that we are now considering. That's why I use the rest of this post to explain the Workers' Party, SV and the views of the Centre Party, i.e. the need for a large-scale notification now. The opposition says that the project has taken longer than expected and that the costs have increased. This is a well-known case, which was also explained in Prop. 100 S for 2010–2011, but I repeat it: the challenges are mainly due to two relationships, a supplier that did not produce good enough results after progress, as well as an evaluation stop, which Stortinget had requested, after the first construction step, that created extended project time. Both of these conditions have now been improved by the decision to enlarge further in June 2011 and to replace the supplier in February 2012. The development is in full swing, the first deliveries are already in use, and no new information has been received, such as: costs or delays which indicate that the case is significantly different today from in the spring of 2011. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party believe that the government has little informed the Storting about problems and weak aspects of the system. Furthermore, we can read in the draft document that the opposition points out that no hearings were conducted during the examination of Prop. 100 S for 2010–2011. Firstly, we disagree that Stortinget has been too little informed, and I refer again to all documents that have been framed in the proposal and in the vote, and to all debates that have been held in this matter. To the criticism of hearings in connection with the treatment of Prop. 100 S: No one in the transport and communication committee asked for or proposed a hearing when that matter was being discussed, so I find it somewhat strange that this is being criticised now. For the debate on coverage inside buildings: This is not a new issue – try again, Prop. 100 S for 2010–2011: Feedback from users in the first extension area confirmed mainly that Emergency networks are better than the old ones. However, concrete activities are under way to assess the quality of the first stage of construction of the Emergency Network, with a particular focus on measuring indoor coverage and, where appropriate, corrective action, but this work does not affect the development of the rest of the country. The Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are concerned about the progress of the project. Hedmark is now the county where the expansion takes place too fully. On 4 January I visited the County Council in Hedmark, there, among others. the development of the Emergency Network was a theme, and they told us that the project and its expansion are fully in line with the plan, also in relation to the timetable. As the case stands today, I do not fully understand the concern about the rate of expansion. The party of progress again writes, as they have done many times before, that they would have wanted a ‘technology neutral bidding round’. I just underline again – what has been done, and written many times before – that the bidding round was technology neutral. On the last page of the document we are currently processing, a letter from the Council of State is attached. It says that during the first quarter of this year she will give a message to the Stortinget on the follow-up to NOU 2012: 14, where a review is given of, among others. progress in the development of the Emergency Network, the budget and the achievement of the target. The opposition suggests that the NOU only mentions the Emergency Network Project to a very limited extent, and they would think so. But how they can know what comes in the message to which the Council of State refers is a mystery to me. Maybe it's okay to wait with the criticism until we see what's coming there before we ask for another message. With this in mind, I am promoting the proposal for the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1775	Then the representative, Tone Merete Sønsterud, mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1778	Then I'm going to start by taking up what's the majority position from the committee. I hardly think this is the last time we're discussing Emergency Networks in this room, although the government in this round rejects the possibility of coming back to the Stortinget and informing about how the emergency network is developing, so that this can quickly and effectively secure the ground wall of what's safe for people, and that this keeps water. There is uncertainty about the Emergency Network. Uncertainty has been created about the costs, the association and cost coverage of non-governmental organisations, about farmers who may receive the coverage bill, about the overall coverage, whether the emergency network has expired when it is completed and in full operation – and not least that we lose time when you have three years of stay. Time and competence are lost by stopping the continuation of network deployment and by cutting the rest that came in three years. I am also surprised that the representative Sønsterud finds no cause for concern when the capital press and others almost weekly have a look-up on the challenges of the emergency network. I have previously said from this chair that the emergency net is expensive, difficult and necessary, and I still mean it, but I have to say that I am more in doubt if it was necessary for it to be as expensive as it is today, compared to other Nordic countries. Several premises underpin the unanimous decision of the Storting to develop the emergency network, but there is also reason to point out that some of these premises have actually changed and created uncertainty. Data transmission, ECG transmission and positioning are difficult to fulfil, and users are experiencing major problems with lack of indoor coverage in several locations. The government has little informed the Storting about the problems and the weaker aspects of the system – despite the fact that it is in the decision to expand Step 1: ‘In nationwide deployment, emergency radio transmitters/recipients will cover about 80 % of the country’s area and close to 100 % of the population. There will be particularly good coverage in cities and agglomerations, also indoors.» In the case of Stortingen’s treatment of St.prp. No 30 for 2006–2007, it was treated urgently, and St.prp. No 83 for 2008–2009 was submitted to the Stortinget for treatment as there were only two weeks left until the end of the session. For this year, almost 1.3 billion has been allocated. kr to the Emergency Network Project. The project also requires large investments by individual users in the replacement of material, and this is in fact in addition to the significant amounts that have been spent on this project since 2004, when the first development and purchase decisions were taken. We're experiencing that Prop. 1 S for 2012–2013 does not adequately highlight the issues raised in the last year on the development of the emergency network. There are grounds for concern about the lack of results in the development of the emergency network and the uncertainty arising from the project. The emergency network is very important to ensure that we have a safe but also good communication, both for the individual emergency situation and the emergency situation. The project has been postponed, and the government itself has cut the appropriations, because the expansion has gone slower than planned. We are, as I said, three years late, and the project is significantly more expensive than what was originally assumed. There is reason to express concern about the progress of the project and whether it is possible to complete it by 2015. In the past, we have also had an interpellation that has given the government information, and that we have been given the opportunity to discuss the matter. It's also nice and very good that the Council of State confirms almost 80 pst. coverage rate. But we in the opposition are concerned that we should ensure progress, that the assumptions should be there, but also that it would be possible to give a status update in a staggering message about the possibility of possibly adjusting – not necessarily shifting, but adjusting – price if the new technology that we initially did not know comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1802	The development of the emergency network shall strengthen the capacity of society to combat organised crime and to deal with major accidents, natural disasters and possible terrorist threats. The ongoing, more everyday activities in emergency situations and interaction should also be improved. That was the assumption. We know that the levels of efficiency, precision and security we are talking about today are increasingly demanding. That is why a new emergency network is absolutely necessary, and there has also been a broad political consensus. Then we've had a delay in the expansion. It has become more expensive than intended, as in so far as the case-rapporteur was concerned, and perhaps most importantly: there are quite striking signals about how the network actually works – or does not work – and it comes from those who actually use the network. There is reason to recall the experience of the storm «Days». It wasn't a good reading for those who now celebrate the experience so far. As far as budgetary matters are concerned, in the revised budget for 2012, the government, as far as I recall, committed more than 1 billion. kr to the emergency network. The 2012 budget was set at a further 200-300 million. kr. It shows me that the budgetary management of this project must be a lot of work. This is a cost-intensive development, and I can imagine that for a government council that sits in such important areas, areas that need resources, it must be interesting to see the cost developments and all the crowns that are now joining the emergency network, measured against important social tasks for which the government and the Council are responsible, and which are literally calling for money – whether it is getting new cars to the police or making sure that you can fill up jobs in some districts. I still see signs of light. So now there's a message for Stortinget. It probably also means that the government sees the need for more information, more clarification of what this ultimately will be, than what has emerged. In my opinion, it has been a great weakness that the information that has come to the Stortinget along the way has been very brief and not very informative, whether you are talking about cutting 1 billion. kr in the appropriations or say that everything is hurt well. We want an overall presentation of the emergency network case, the status of it, and that we get this in time for this committee, which has the matter under consideration, to have a proper round of this before this collapse separates. We must be more clear about the progress plan, the budget and the achievement of the target on the basis of the criteria on which this enlargement has been based. It is not satisfactory when a Council of State stands here and says that the expansion will be ready in 2015. So it goes ten minutes, and then it comes from the floor even in the hall outside here that it's asked if it keeps going anyway. Then it must be allowed for the opposition to ask what is really going on on on this planet. Last night we could read in the evening post that the price has now grown to approx. 6 B.C.E. kr, that it has gradually increased, and I don't think anyone dare guarantee that it will be the final sum, as the matter now stands. It is interesting when Professor Lækreid at the University of Bergen in the evening post yesterday argues that this is an example that when several departments are going to work on a matter, responsibility powdering may quickly arise. The more important it is with clear political governance. I hope the political, clear governance will show up in the big message that is now advertised.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1819	There were some things about the registration down there, so I could not register until a little later. The emergency issue is a very important one. So the rapporteur says that it has been known to Stortinget that there are delays. Yeah, it does, but there's going to be a little bit of a rush about poop, and a little bit of an accident, you're just told that something is happening here. If you say there haven't been a lot of things and a lot of problems about the emergency network, you'll at least see some of this. There is no doubt that we have and have had enormous challenges around this. Deliveries have taken longer. We know that, and we know that suddenly one supplier would no longer have it, and that is why it became a new one to start delivering. I also know that there has been a lot of discussion around it. I also think it is special in this whole case that at first it was a government council that had nothing to do with this, which had to meet in Stortinget on behalf of the government council that was responsible, because it was inhabitable. I believe that what emerged from the professor of the evening post yesterday, considering who has been responsible here and followed up, definitely shows that it has not been good to have one council meeting here and another that actually carries out the work in the day-to-day. So they say the emergency network is getting better than the old network. Yes, someone claims it, but I'll come back a little bit. The costs of the different floors have become enormously much higher than those foreseen in the decision of the Storting. After all, it is the ‘tianger’ of the fire and rescue conditions around what the expenditure has become. Voluntary organisations such as: The Red Cross says they can't afford to be on it. It is serious for safety and security. We definitely saw someone who made a great effort on July 22nd: it was the Red Cross, with the effort they made in that crisis. There has been incredibly mega-ragen treatment in Stortinget – I say ‘megarask’, because this case has among other things. only passed through the Storting in 14 days, without any opportunity for the opposition to have it properly and properly treated. Then we actually want a postponement to get better treatment. It's just going back and looking at the protocols, where it says that you asked for better time to deal with such an important matter. The emergencies say that the employees have been involved in the process, and refer to evaluations. We had a seminar in the Progress Party in which we invited the emergency services and others who had opinions about the new emergency network, to come, and at least many of those in the first line service, wondered who was asked in this user participation, in this evaluation. No one had experienced that some of those in the first line service, at least, had been asked how the new emergency network actually worked. Which was even more strange, when we had the hearing, the management of the various emergency beds came in uniform, while the boys and the girls on the floor, or the trustees, were not allowed to meet in their uniform at the hearing. They had been informed by the management of the emergency situations that they were not wanted to come. They had to get completely on their own, despite the fact that they are actually trusted in the emergency situation and should have the full opportunity to say how they feel that the new emergency network is working, with all the challenges we've seen. I feel that the Minister of Justice is now taking this seriously, and I am very pleased about that. There have been several rounds in Stortinget now. At least I feel that our new Minister of Justice is taking this very seriously, and is also looking at possible solutions for how to improve the new emergency network. I'm very happy about that, because it's very important. I am also very pleased that it is now said that there is a message coming to Stortinget, because we need to discuss this. We need to get more information to the Storting: so I'm very happy about this. I also hope that the Council of State will provide some feedback on the cost picture. I know in particular that Telemark police district gets a bill of 3-4 million. kr. So it's up from 500,000 to 600,000 dollars earlier. Fire and rescue, as I said, have in many places a cost increase on the «tianger». When you feel that you don't get what you thought you were going to get, I realize there's going to be a lot of frustration out there with those in the first-line service. This is about having the best tool for those people, women and men, who are going to be out there saving other people and values. That is why this emergency network is incredibly important. But I hope the Council of State can answer about these 4.7 billion. kr increases to 6 br. kr, as you now say. We also know the challenges of the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency in terms of tunnels and their costs. If the Council of State could say anything about it, it would be very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1845	Work on establishing a robust, common emergency network based on modern technology is an important contribution to social security and enhanced preparedness in Norway. Emergency networks are being developed to meet the needs defined by the emergency budgets. The development takes place in line with the frameworks of the Stortinget and the recommendation of the external quality insurer, including the Stortingen's assumptions on quality and surface coverage requirements. The government sees it as a priority task to ensure that national emergency networks come into place by the end of 2015 and within the framework of 4.7 billion. kr and to ensure that emergency networks are operated as a safe and efficient tool. Emergency networks are in daily use throughout the first stage of development. The second stage of development is now under way with many activities at the same time. Equipment for emergency rooms is provided and the Emergency Communications Directorate informs that the installation of the emergency rooms is in line with the plan and that seven new control rooms were already in use in 2012. Base stations are being built too fully in East and South Norway, and radio planning for the whole country is under way. Base stations and control rooms are connected by means of a so-called core network. A core network is basically large computers that make up the brain of the Emergency Network – a kind of central, in other words. The current core network is dimensioned for the first stage of development, and now we need a larger and safer core network that can serve all of Norway. This new core network is installed and being tested. Afterwards, all base stations from the first stage of construction and then all new base stations shall be connected to this core network. The switchover must be rapid and nearly risk-free and with minimum service interruptions. In view of the important and sometimes life-critical effects of emergency situations, one will not switch to a new solution until this has been adequately tested. I mention this because this is a technologically demanding project. The switchover was planned to be completed in the spring of 2013. In order to minimise the risk associated with the switchover, the plans must take into account the relocation after the summer holidays. The transfer of users is planned in close cooperation with the emergency budgets, which also have a number of specific activities related to this. The time when Emergency Networks are ready to be deployed in Hedmark, West Oppland and Gudbrandsdalen is therefore shifted to the fourth quarter of 2013. Land-wide development plans by 2015 are not affected by this. Feedback has been received from some users on challenges related to the use of Emergency Networks. In particular, this coverage is for indoor floors operating in the Oslo Centre. These feedback is taken seriously and the Emergency Communications Directorate has a close dialogue with the emergency services on improvement activities in many areas. Among other things, there is a project for measuring indoor coverage in about 100 major constructions in the first extension area. A quality review of the network has been started. In addition, information activities are ongoing to ensure that knowledge of what is and what is not is increased throughout the country. The emergency network project is, in my opinion, well-informed and also firmly anchored in Stortinget. The current year has been reported by the Emergency Network and the status of the case in Meld. St. 29 for 2011-2012, Social security. This is also mentioned in Prop. 1 S for 2012–2013 and in Prop. 23 S for 2012–2013. Furthermore, a number of written questions have been answered by representatives and, as mentioned earlier today, also during the examination of the interpellation of Mr Ingerd Schou on Emergency Network in Stortinget on 13 November last year. In the announcement to the Stortinget about the follow-up of the NOU 2012:14, Report of the 22nd July Commission, I want to give an updated review of, among other things. progress in development, budget and achievement. It is on this basis that I have not seen the need for a separate announcement to the Stortinget on Emergency Nets in the spring session this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1875	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1878	When the Storting decided in 2004 to develop the new emergency network, it was a clear premise that this would be a key solution rather than a development project. Can the Council of State confirm that there has not been a development project, that there has not been development here, or has there been more of a development project, some of which is now beginning to feel when you see everything that needs to be done after the project has been completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1884	The representative Hoksrud probably knows the history of the project better than this council, but I know both the scope of the Emergency Network project and the complexity of it. For me, it would be a surprise if the project had not met heavy challenges along the way. I am also pleased that the Storting has been involved in the discussion on these heavy challenges, which have both given a change of supplier and an evaluation stop along the way. With that, we now have a better basis for implementing Phase 2 even within the financial framework set for the project. We do have all the great expectations to be able to use this throughout the country when new Emergency Networks are installed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1889	The capacity of the voluntary organisations Red Cross, Norwegian Public Aid and the Rescue Company, just to name someone, is important when the accident is first out. These voluntary organisations, which are largely supported by the State and have a lot of voluntary committed equity, in that sense, should not receive the bill for a connection to the Emergency Network, but should be included in the connection when the need and the current situation are there. How will the Council of State ensure that the capacity is maintained and that it is included in an emergency network without the costs being passed on to non-governmental organisations, such as those I mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1894	I can assure Stortinget that the volunteer organizations' ability to use the Emergency Network is a great deal of time and effort. Some of the organisations are already included as test users. How we can ensure that they continue to be important, not least in the light of our rescue model, where the place of volunteers is of course and important. Ensuring both the technical capability and competence to be full users in the future is important. So we're going through what challenges this represents and how we're going to solve them. I will get back to this in a more thorough way in the previously mentioned Storing Message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1899	I also think it is positive that the Council of State clearly states that this is a complex matter that may quickly become so technical that putting together the pieces around a new emergency network and getting it on a level where we all understand what we are talking about is a challenge in itself. Then I will not even mention those who read headlines and no more in this matter. But something very important, which I would like to ask if the Council of State will come back to in the message, is the operating costs of the Emergency Network. If they are to be charged to the individual user, the individual unit, can you charge large additional costs? They will probably have to cut in other areas – in rather tight budgets. I do not expect the Council of State to be able to answer this right now, but I ask if it will be clarified in the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1908	First of all, the Emergency Network will allow for better communication. Technologically, this facilitates a type of conversation that our rescue services have so far been unable to carry out, namely calls in groups. So new technology will also give a new cost picture, and how it turns out for users, we're all concerned about. The cost model has also been discussed in this room earlier. Without me being able to go into detail about this right now, of course, we are very concerned not only with the cost picture related to this, but also the total cost of communication that our agencies have, and not least how it is doing other tasks, so that we can see the net cost picture if you manage to streamline other solutions. So we'll get back to this, and both in the next message and in later documents, there'll be further details of this picture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1913	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1918	To the last mentioned, the Progress Party assumes that all users will have the financial framework necessary for them to actually put into service and use the equipment when the Emergency Network is in place. In 2004, when the Stortinget decided to expand, the price tag was 3.6 billion. kr. So now we're talking about an expansion that's expected to be completed in 2015, to at least 16 billion. kr. There are unfortunately good reasons to assume that the bill actually gets even bigger. There is reason to be concerned about large and increasing cost gaps. The government is responsible, and the government is also responsible for informing Stortingen about this. At the same time as the unrest associated with the final price tag and associated cost caps are increasing, there is also growing concern about the system's shortcomings and weaknesses. The Ministry of Justice and Security has a comprehensive management document for the completion of the deployment of Emergency Networks. It's dated 29 June 2012. I quote: ‘The purpose of this governance document is to safeguard the interests of the State while at the same time reducing the risk to the State’. Does the Council of State consider that the risk of this project is well managed? I'm quoting again: ‘The Ministry of Justice and Security shall exercise its role as project owner through the administration of the Executive Board of the Emergency Communications Directorate.’.» The question asked by the Progress Party is whether this ownership role is active and controlling. From the steering document, see Effect Goals: ‘The emergency measures, the Main Rescue Centre and the Rescue Helicopter Service shall, in relation to the current situation, be provided with: increased security of emergency and response personnel.’;» [[...]] In view of the many shortcomings notified by users, the Progress Party asks whether this impact target has been properly addressed. The management document specifies under Result Objective – Quality/Performance: ‘ [[...]] The Progress Party asks: Is this still the goal? Can we be sure that it will be achieved? And when will it possibly be reached? Finally, let me address what NGOs report is a concern, that they can't afford to use the Emergency Network. Investments in equipment are involved. Twenty million. kr is a lot of money for non-governmental organisations that receive their money through collection and voluntary contributions. And 20 million. kr per year in operating costs is also a lot of money for those who have such funding, but at the same time have such an important role in our preparedness work. This large Emergency Network project is not in place until all users have a financial opportunity to use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1956	In short, the representative Schou asked if I was not concerned about this matter, on the basis of first-page headlines in the capital press. Now it's interesting what's in the papers, and that has first-page headlines. But I just want to stress that I'm not running politics after first-page headlines in the capital press. For those who do, I would rather suggest that you actually read what is in the documents that we have and that are in the Stortinget. I would also recommend the Christian People's Party. Read the documents for a clarification: The representative Syversen also referred to the evening post yesterday and referred to, among other things. to the medical profession, which stated how wrong it can be when several departments are responsible for one case. Fact-finding: only one department is responsible for this matter, and it is the Ministry of Justice and Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1965	The rapporteur asked us to read the documents. I believe that everyone – at least in the Transport Committee and everyone involved in this debate – has read the documents. One is actually concerned about following what they say: but what this case clearly shows is that it is not enough just to read the documents. In fact, you have to talk to those people who are in the first-line service, who try to save values and human lives every single day, who use the emergency network, and who feel that they are not taken seriously – by the Emergency Communications Directorate, by others up in the systems, because they don't listen to the common people in the grassroots, those who are out in the first-line service, say. We've had exercises on Ila, we've had exercises elsewhere. We have had nets that have fallen out of a tiny snow of a storm. At Akershus, 40 base stations fell out. It's serious. It's about the safety and security of those in the first line service. And then there's this with the costs. It's also very important. One thing that we don't get answers to applies, among other things. tunnels, railways and roads. No one's really said who's taking the bill. As far as I've understood, the costs are not included in the 4.7 billion. NOK which we now have as an estimate of the cost of this project. I record that the Council of State in reply to me writes that the calculations and costs are within the framework. But it's important to know who's taking the big bill. I've heard numbers up to 1.7 billion. kr and maybe 2 brd. kr to get good coverage in the tunnels around the country. I don't know if that's true, but it's important to know who's taking that bill, and whether it's quality-secured numbers. I had hoped that perhaps the Council of State could answer something more about it, because it's important. I want to say that when the Council of State answers a little unkindly when I ask if this is a development project or not, it is very clear from Stortinget that this should be a key project – you should know what you got without having to develop a lot on the page. So far, at least in the feedback I get, it's developing in a big way, and we haven't got a key project in the new emergency network. As I said, it is very clear that this should not lead to large increases in the cost of the individual floors, but the result is the exact opposite. I have shown examples of both five times and ten times the cost growth of the emergency food communication equipment. It is serious because it affects the other operation to be operated by the emergency state.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1976	It is quite right, as the rapporteur says, that it is the Ministry of Justice that has the formal responsibility, but with a Council of State for a long time. But let me illustrate the point with the following: there are several establishments that are under health, which are totally dependent on this working on the assumption. It tells me quite a lot when the health director, as I see it as a very factual and sober person, before Christmas finds it absolutely necessary in a reading article in the Evening Post to report his concerns and objections to what is being presented about how the emergency network works. Then we're at a level where there's not so much to think about, but you realize that the communication, the governance that you have, has not been done in a satisfactory way. Whether the failure is in the department or department that has the management dialogue with the department is a bit difficult for us in Stortinget to assess, but no one should tell me that the health director found it necessary to provide readers in the evening post if everything was in his best order.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e1983	New technologies are important, engaging and addressing many of the major challenges that important institutions face. Although the emergency budgets in their time were together to set the requirements for the new emergency network and also helped to approve the contracts that were concluded, I understand that it is going to be impatience to include new functionality in the communication solutions. But then there are additions, which also have to be handled as an addition, of course. The representative Hoksrud once again refers to the situation at Ila that happened for some time ago, which was of course taken up in dialogue with the users, and which has also been resolved after what I have been informed. When it came to the storm Dagmar, the weakness of our communications systems was revealed, not necessarily in the emergency network, but it illustrated the importance of back-up capacity, which has been addressed. In terms of indoor coverage, this project was never meant to cover all kinds of indoor areas, nor does it do it in our neighbouring country, nor will it be the case when you finish this project. But you work with improved indoor coverage on the basis of – again – dialogue with users. Here, of course, it is also possible to use mobile solutions in emergency situations. In the case of tunnels, it has also been discussed here before. In cooperation with the Road Directorate, it has been discussed both which tunnels, how long they should be and how much traffic they should be in order to automatically join the current emergency network project. And then there's a dialogue with the Ministry of Transport on how to deal with the railways. I feel that this project is now developing, as planned in step 2, dynamic to ensure that we catch up and deliver on the goals that Stortinget has set, and that we do it in a more flexible way than what was done in the first stage of construction, which therefore took longer than necessary and perhaps also became more expensive. Just to underline it in the end: we keep the target set for both land and population coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2001	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2017	It is not uncommon in either interpellation debates or in other debates here in the Chamber that some of the purpose of lifting the case is to show that there is a difference between parties and blocks in the Storting. That is not the intention today; I would rather say the opposite. The background to my delivery of this interview is the desire to have a debate that can provide a basis for a common understanding and expectation of the concept of a people's church. This I do naturally enough because I have experienced that the term is used very differently, often unyanished and often taken to income for an understanding that I myself cannot see related to what the Right has founded on the concept. Another point is that it may be natural that this magnification also takes up a debate on the concept of ‘the Church of People’. It's been a while since the state-church agreement and the debate that was then. Now it is as the concept introduced in the Constitution and deserves attention. It can be natural to start with what I see as the content of the term. I perceive that the concept of a people's church is used to give the Norwegian Church a continued place in society as an important and present institution for the Norwegian people, as it has been for a long time. While equal treatment of religious and life-seeking societies has been clarified by changes in the Constitution and the Law of the Church, it is still established that the Norwegian Church has a special position in our society. I think I share this view with most parts of the political environment. I also think we have a common understanding and a wish that this means that we believe the Church should be present for the people throughout the country, and that they should set up in a special way with their competences of humanity and care when society is affected by events that require extra effort by the community. I have correctly perceived some critical voices that respond to the Church being so closely connected through both national and municipal crisis management, but I understand that at the same time we believe that the experience and competence they possess is a contribution we cannot fail to use. So there is a small challenge in the desire for an advocacy church that stands up for the people, and the preservation and respect of those who do not want to be met by the Church in such challenging situations. I think there are many good, practical arrangements for how to solve this, and have great faith in local solutions to it. So far, I feel that there are no major challenges in a common church understanding. So to what's more of a concern to me. I have registered a number of statements that, in my opinion, interfere with how the Church should handle matters that are directly linked to theology and learning questions. I hear statements that the Church, because it is to be a people's church, must be generous and tolerant, and not push people away. Yes, it's not difficult to share the desire for a raw, inclusive and open church, but if we believe with this that the Church should unpack controversial theological questions, or leave aside to present doctrinal views from which some might be provoked, we draw the popular church concept too far. The purpose of the changes we have made was that we as a state should no longer govern the Church's inner life, and that the Church should conduct its business in the pact with its faith and learning without any interference from the state. Just the right to operate their religious and life - vision organization based on one's own conviction, and the freedom of the individual's right to religion, have been strengthened by the changes we made on 21 July 2012. My people's church should be clear about what it stands for, and not hide it. So on this basis it's going to be both raw, inclusive and open. I hope, however, that in this debate we can agree that there should be a delineation of the popular church concept against theology and learning questions. It's positive for the Church to be a church for all the people, but it'll be going across the border if we expect everyone to be able to define themselves within. It was a little bit about what I think the church shouldn't be – now a little back to what we think it can be. I will return to the physical presence throughout the country, but will promise another presence that is also important. We have a long and good church tradition in our country, and an important part of this is the Church as the traveler of the value debate. Should that not also be an important task for the Church in the future? What values are challenged, what values are at risk of losing their place in society, and what values must be brought into new debates? I hope it is, but is a little bit more uncertain about whether it is, a consensus that this is a clear task for the people's church. Of course, this task is also closely linked to the Church's task as a cultural bearer, and not least the Church as part of a greater reality, an international church with its commitment far beyond preaching and sacrament. The Church's commitment as part of a welfare offer both nationally and internationally has a natural place in a people's church. So back to presence. Our task as politicians is to facilitate the Church to carry out its mission as a religious community and a church of the people. In this context, it is very important to think through what is going on. When we say that the Church should be present throughout the country, we also say that there should be work, which requires both human and financial resources. It's great that we do, but it requires that we follow up, and that we give clear feedback to the Church about what we expect. What does presence mean? What about church buildings and other facilities, and what about the frequency and breadth of the offer? There is no doubt that here we have expectations of the Church, which is extensive and, in part, precious. It is probably also here that it is clear that there are quite different expectations of the religious community The Norwegian Church than of the other religious and life-view societies, that the Church of Nations has a expectation that the others do not. It takes wisdom to manage this in a good way, both in the Church and with us politicians. In my opinion, the expectation of the people's Church along with non-legislative treatment is two lines that are in the process of crossing each other, and it can quickly be seen as a collision course. A natural question to ask is therefore whether the Church of the People, the Church of the Majority in Norway, should nevertheless be discriminated against in certain areas. The expectations themselves are, of course, discriminatory. “I prefer to ask, my call is not to answer” – yes, it’s tempting to hang on to Ibsen now. However, I think there is expected to be a little hint of a response to this too, and I dare to vent a thought, even if it is not a final conclusion. Not long ago, religious and life-view societies experienced a change in the grant to them as a result of a change in the way foreign members of the Norwegian Church were counted. It seems unreasonable, and it was very little predictable. Perhaps it is time to put in place a more robust system for calculating grants and non-discrimination between these organisations. Maybe a look at some tasks the Church of the People, or, for that matter, other religious and life views, does for society and gives them resources for it, without that being part of the contribution we all make, depending on the number of members. I think at least it's necessary to go through this thoroughly and find a good solution to how one can treat organisations that are discriminated against in expectations and tasks. Finally, I hope that this will not be a debate on economics. Once I have also raised that part of the debate, it is to show that we have legally introduced a concept that challenges us in practical follow-up. The most important thing, however, has been the desire for a debate that can confirm that we have a common desire, a common understanding that we want a people's church to be present throughout the country, a people's church that is to be part of an offer to the people in everyday life and crisis, which is to be raw, inclusive and open, but which is to deal entirely with its inner life and learning questions itself, and have the right to express its views with boldness. I also want the debate to give the Church clarity about what we expect, and that we will follow up the expectations by making them equipped to complete the tasks. I'm excited about the debate further, hope the Council of State gives some good clarification, and looks forward to a good dialogue.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2045	First, I would like to thank the representative Harberg for the interpellation and the question of what is contained in the term ‘people’s church’. I see it as an invitation to a debate on the overall objectives of church policy. It is a conversation I would like to welcome, and in which I would like to participate. When the parties at Stortinget gathered on 10 April 2008 about the church settlement, it provided a basis for amending the Basic Law provisions on the state church system. The term ‘public church’ came for the first time into the Constitution. I perceive the wording of the new provision in the Basic Law § 16 that «The Norwegian Church remains the Church of Norway», primarily as an expression of the Storting’s will for continuity in the area of the Church. [[...]] The church agreement implies that changes were made that strengthened the independence of the Norwegian Church as a religious community. At the same time, the church agreement showed that there is a broad political uprising to take care of «our Christian and humanistic heritage». And there was agreement to facilitate that the Norwegian Church could be a church in which the vast majority of the nation's population knows each other. There is still reason to move forward step by step in terms of changes in the Church's arrangements. It touches matters that are deeply involved in many members of the Church. Excessive and rapid changes can lead to long-term consequences that are difficult to understand. That's why continuity is important. People should not experience that the Church is being taken from them. How the Norwegian Church appears and understands itself as a majority church in today's multicultural and multireligious societies is a theological question. The Church, through its elected bodies and theological teaching offices, has an independent responsibility to develop and express. In respect for the Church as a religious community, a state church policy will not have the aim of deciding this. Our task as state authority is to facilitate economic, legal and organisational conditions so that the Norwegian Church can ‘remain’ the Church of Norway. In this, there is an objective that the Church's activities remain nationwide. It shall be available in the individual communities, with services and services and with the possibility for members of the Church to be baptized and confirmed, dedicated and buried. As a popular church, the Norwegian Church will meet with a special expectation that it will embrace the many. It must give room for different theological directions within its recognition. There must be room for different degrees of religious commitment. The Church must have the ability to see diversity as a enrichment, not as a threat. It must have the will to be liberal and to embrace it widely. Should future generations be able to know membership of the Church, knowledge of the Church's faith and values must be communicated to them. That is why the reform of faith training is important. It's a popular church project. The reform's objective of reaching the breadth of its members is important. Therefore, training provision needs to be designed in such a way that it is felt to be relevant to most people. It is a major challenge for the Norwegian Church to facilitate a broader education of faith than is currently the case. The Church shall be experienced as close, relevant and accessible to the 77 pst. of the people of Norway who belong to it, the members of the Church must express themselves, take responsibility for them and make decisions about their church. That is why the democratic reform envisaged by the church settlement is also a popular church project. During the spring session, the government will present proposals for changes to the church law provisions on elections, as requested by the Stortinget. At the same time, the Church Council is working to prepare for the Church meeting to establish the more detailed electoral system. The purpose of these changes is to ensure the prerequisites of the church settlement. There it said that real choices should be established, that one should have increased use of direct elections, and that church elections should take place at the same time as public elections. I expect that the Church will not end the democratic reform once the electoral system has been adopted. Developing democratic structures and cultures with transparency and respect for different views is an ever-increasing challenge. The historical premise and the special position of the Norwegian Church in the Norwegian community provide the basis for its own form of funding and for a more comprehensive regulation of the law of this church than that of other religious and life-view societies. As a majority church with a large majority of the population as members, it is not unnatural that the Norwegian Church performs social tasks such as: tomb management and alerting of deaths on police mission. The Steelset Committee, like several previous committees of inquiry, has, on a principle basis, been in favour of municipalities being responsible for the management of the burial site. In previous rounds, the hearings have shown great support for continued church management of the graveyards, and I believe initially that today's system still works well. The church agreement also assumes that today's arrangement will continue. The Norwegian Church will continue to play an important, gathering role at festivals and major events, in sorrow as in joy. There is a broad political basis for continuing such practices within the framework of freedom of belief. I believe that the church agreement and the new provisions of the Constitution confirm this. The amendments to the Constitution have provided a new basis for further independence of the Norwegian Church. As also mentioned in the 2013 budget proposal, the consideration of continuity must continue to weigh heavily in the further development of the Church's framework and arrangements. Further changes should take place step by step and have broad political and church uprisings. The Church Council is actively examining proposals for further administrative reforms in the Church. I believe it is natural now to await the proposals adopted by the Church's bodies. However, the Ministry has taken the initiative to evaluate the system established for the local church in the 1996 Church Law Reform. There is a need for more knowledge of what is in practice the main challenges of the local church organisation. The organisation, management and activities of the individual parish are of the utmost importance. It's local that people meet their church. That's above all that's the people's church. Finally, I would like to stress that the popular church concept does not, of course, mean that only the church members belong to the community, or that you have to be a member of the Norwegian Church in order to be Norwegian. It's a derailment. The Norwegian Church, with its 3.8 million members, has a separate role in Norwegian society. It has represented the Christian cultural heritage that has shaped the country over a thousand years. As a large majority church, it has a special responsibility. This constitutes, as I see it, a factual basis for the fact that in certain areas there are specific frameworks and conditions for the Norwegian Church. This is how the Norwegian Church can be the Church of Norway and its members can still be associated with this church.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2087	Thanks to the Council of State for the answer and for the review, which shows that there is a lot of common understanding. I thought it was good to get a confirmation of many of the things I asked about. I especially appreciated the fact that the Council of State repeatedly underlined the concept of continuity, given what we have had, and what we have now stated. It strengthens the Church's position in society, and it's important. The church is there and shall remain there for the people and have its central place among them. It was also good to hear the Council of State recalling how important it is that religious training works, and that it must be put in place in such a way that we give children and young people and new ones who come to the country, a good basis for understanding what the Church stands for, and what underpins the choices that one takes. It is true that the Church must continue the democratic reform, and the last thing I want to point out, and which I appreciated in the Council of State's response, was that she underlined the work that the Church is going to do, and that what, if necessary, concerns the Storting and the ministry's work with the Church, is to do one in dialogue with the Church. It is important that the Council of State puts up that line, so that the Church's internal democracy becomes real, and is what can be involved in shaping the Church further. Then there will probably be debates in this room that can be challenging in terms of things in the further follow-up. I don't think the biggest challenge comes up in the matter we're going to have in ours about the electoral system, but it's the last step in terms of the state-church settlement and the democratic reform that was announced there. Again: Thanks to the Council of State for the answer and for the good clarifications and much that was confirmed in terms of the desire for a common understanding of what the Church should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2100	I get to thank the representative Harberg for the good response to the post I made. It's not always like we always agree when we discuss in this room, but in some areas I think it's good that we can draw some long lines that we agree on. Let me just comment on a couple of things, make a couple of reflections, maybe, when the matter is quite wide up. I think the faith training reform is very important for the Norwegian Church. Then I want to share some concern about the training reform. When I’m out – although not everywhere – I see a faith training reform that has become very experience-oriented. It is good that we have good experiences, but it is also important that the reform of faith is a reform of content, so that a teacher about the Christian message and about a Christian stand in the training of faith. I think maybe there's something to work with there. Then I agree that we are going to have a dialogue with the Church's bodies on the decisions that we are going to make here in this Chamber. I think that makes sense. It's going to be possible to find electoral arrangements, I think, too, on which we're going to be quite agreed. There will be step-by-step approaches and changes that are now taking place in addition to the way in which we organise the budget, i.e. the items to be used. These are things that can happen in a later round. I think it's important that we don't let the popular church concept become something that's read and adopted once and for all. I think we also need to have a respect for the fact that the people's church can behave differently where it's 95 pst. church members than in those parts where the majority church is actually a minority church. That gives us some challenges, and I think we're going to see that we're getting a little bit different expressions for what's the people's church. So I also think it is important that we all as church members take part in debates on what the contents of that church should be local. That's where we're going to see if we're still going to have a people's church that embraces widely in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2111	I want to start by thanking the representative Harberg for the invitation to talk about the folklore. The Church is something I like to talk about. There's, as the interpellant points out, a lot of different opinions about what it means to be a people's church. But there is a great deal of political agreement on the issue. State councils have developed various elements on what is important for the popular church in the future. I would like to draw up a couple of very specific examples from my community, where I have seen and experienced the significance of the people's church in the community. Night to the second Christmas day in 1998 Herey church burned down to the ground. The building was more or less in shock, and everyone was dismayed. Now, a lot of people asked. But the stranglehold took hold. Already in New Year's Eve, it was invited to a collection in the center. People tended torches, and a large crowd, at least 1,500, went on torches against the church Kerduinas. Here the parish priest took to the midnight fair. Buckets with lids were sent around the ocean as a first start to collect money for the new church. I don't know exactly – but the giraffe was big, and hundreds of thousands came in to a new church. Some years later, the Herøy community was once again the victim of a tragic event. This time at sea. When the ‘Bourbon Dolphin’ accident occurred in 2007, the local church played a decisive role for those who sat back. An entire community was paralyzed by grief. The church was the meeting place for the mourners, and the priest was central to everything that took place in the days and weeks after. Both of these events showed with all clarity how much the Church means to individuals and to the whole community when tragic events occur. Many of you may have similar experiences and know what I'm talking about. I thought the experience from Herøy illustrates something important. First of all, the uprising about the Church in such a situation says something about how important the Church is to people when it comes to the play. People get dismayed when something like that happens when a person at least expects it. For many, the Church will be the symbol of something safe that is there anyway. Maybe we don't benefit from church's daily supply, but when it turns out, we know where we can go. The Church cares for the people, anyway. There is something supported and stable in a time of rapid change. Secondly, the uproar tells us what kind of community the local church sound is. There are people who make the church sound, not buildings. The church sound is an important contributor to creating strong communities both in the city and in the city. This did not always seem to be in everyday life, but it seemed when something happened. The Norwegian Church has 3.8 million members. Even though not everyone is equally eager to go to the services of gods, there are enormous numbers who are inside the church through the week and benefit from other offerings. Where, activities for children and young people, confirmation education, elderly people and mental health care are only one of the different church sounds offered. There are tasks for everyone in a church sound, and all contributions are important. A formidable voluntary work is being done in the local church sounds. So, what is the Church of the People? Church sounds that connect people regardless of degree of activity. Church sounds that bring people together, sadly or joyfully. Church sounds that are present where people are. Church sounds that have space for all and tasks for all. This is a popular church at its best! We have to do what we can to ensure that church sounds in the municipalities can continue to be what they can, at best, be an open, raw and inclusive people's church.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2154	Interpellant travels a debate in which he, among other things, Want to know what is included in the term ‘public church’. The church agreement gave the Church an even freer position than before the conciliation was concluded. For the Advance Party, the People's Church means that those who sit in the governing bodies of the Church shall be elected by the members of the Church, where this has been adopted under the Church Act. In order for this to be possible, the electoral system must give real choices. As a discretion, it can be mentioned that the way the church elections were organized in 2009 is the way that gives the most voting power. But obviously there were some misunderstandings among the voters that led to the rejection of many votes. That is why the electoral system must now be examined and re-adopted. For the Advance Party, it is important that the Church governs itself without political interference in employment, liturgy or other themes that the Church considers important. This may result in members and non-members reacting negatively and making opinions and comments on church performances, but the Church must tolerate it in the same way as other free organizations or whatever it may be. And they have to, on equal links with those who target criticism of the Church, also bear that the Church is in its full right to make plays that fall different parts of the population heavy to the chest. A people's church must be allowed to stand up for – and talk about – its interpretation of the Bible, and put the content into context with today's society. Then it would be better for the members of the Church to consider whether they would still support the Church or sign up. This is something that the Church is both aware of and takes care of in its balances when they come up with joint statements, I believe. Historically, the Church has always been of great importance to its inhabitants. For many, it is also of great importance today, for some on a daily basis, for others on special occasions, as the representative Gieleth pointed out. Many have experienced the Church's employees, pastors and deacons as good interlocutors, and as a very good support that provides care and comfort for tragedies and other sad events. For the Advance Party, the concept of a "public church" also means that there should be sufficient churches available to members, that the Church should have a special position throughout the country, and that the Church should be guaranteed financially. The representative also raises questions about what tasks the Church will have in the future. In the submitted study on belief and life views, the appointed STEEL Committee has made proposals for the future division of tasks for the Church. The party has reviewed parts of the report, and we see that there are several points that the party will not support. The party of progress is clear that today’s right of marriage is not to be restricted. We believe that the right of marriage is both a good tradition and ensures the freedom of choice of citizens in a good way. Nor will the Party go in to amend the Constitution or the Training Act. With regard to other points in the investigation, I expect there will be plenty of opportunity to promote his view after the case has been consulted by the various actors. In conclusion, I would like to insist that it is up to the Church itself to fill it with a content that makes the members think that it bears the name of the Church of People. As the Council of State says, belief training can well be filled with Christian content and not just experiences. I fully support that as a member of the Norwegian Church. But as a politician, I can't mean it, because then I put myself into the inner self-government of the Church, and I have no part to do with it. What the Church will do to care for children and young people's knowledge of our religion, must be up to the Church itself. So there's burrowing edges here that we can tread on both sides, and I just want to strongly warn here, that we, as politicians, are tying up on what we're saying about as individuals in such matters. As members of the Church it must be quite fine, but as politicians we shall be very careful.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2187	At first I want to thank the Council of State for something that I thought was a very good post. So I'm going to thank the inter-pellant for raising an interesting debate for us, sailor, if I am seasily baffling a little about this debate coming now, and that last year's term "people's church" was introduced in the Constitution – because that's not exactly a new concept. The centre party has at least talked a long and warm talk about the people's church. Yes, we even have a separate chapter in our 2009 program called "The Church of the People", and we have used the term in several programs before that. I checked that at the latest instead. So for the Central Party, the term "people's church" is not new, sail if it was introduced into the Constitution last year. It's really not that strange, I think, because this has been a very important principle for us: a church that has both high doors and at the gate. That is, the Church ‘shall be open, inclusive and meet the individual in his little faith and his great doubt, a collective mark of national major events or accidents, and shall meet those who wish it in their everyday lives and at the milestones of life’. It is quotation from the lotogram adopted in 2009. Those who wish to enter shall be welcomed and shall not be charged a ticket in proportion to their sex, their orientation or belief. So I'm very excited about this year's church meeting, like, among other things. shall debate and discuss the marriage of homosexuals and many other exciting themes. The center party goes on to say in our program that we want a broad and inclusive people's church. At the same time, we say that the members of the Church must have a greater impact on the Church through the democratization of the church organs. We say in the programme that the church elections in 2009 and 2011 will be crucial for how we will deal with the Constitutional proposals last year. This is from our program. So it was just these choices that made the whole process of legitimizing the church settlement difficult for me. The electoral system did not function this way neither the Church nor we really wanted to. In the agreement, it is stated in clear terms: ‘The reform shall include the establishment of real elections, the increased use of direct elections and church elections at the same time as public elections. Trials should be conducted with different schemes evaluated in cooperation with church bodies, before the Stortinget adopts final arrangements for elections to the Church Meeting and the Bishops' Council. It is considered that a satisfactory democratic reform based on the above conditions has been carried out in the Norwegian Church during 2011.’» We didn't quite get yours. So far, as elected representatives, we have had the opportunity to think something about the inner life of the religious community and in many contexts perhaps contributed to making the doors a little higher and the doors a little further in the Norwegian Church. Then the state shouldn't stick with a state church of its own anymore, but we want a people's church that has room for everyone. That is why it is crucial for us that the Church meeting in spring helps to make the electoral system in the Norwegian Church as good as possible. There must be a real possibility of influence for the members of the Church without the rejection of votes, or that we – acutely formulated – risk that the Council of Bishops and the Church meeting will be made up of people with surnames from A to D. The center party takes this very seriously. We will therefore invite the Stortinget to a seminar in which the electoral system is discussed. It'll be the next Tuesday. There comes the bishop in Hamar, Solvency Fisk, the bishop in Tunsberg, Laila Riksaasen Dahl and election researcher Bernt Aardal. These represent a slightly different view of what legitimizes the Church's members best. I would like to welcome everyone to what we think might be a little bit of an interesting view. It's exciting to discuss the term "people's church" for us as politicians. We want to put different values and opinions in the term. Equally important would it be that the Norwegian Church's seas discuss the concept of 'public church'. They're going to do that in the future. What do the Church's representatives put in the term? Who are the Church's representatives? Who is to be chosen? Are some voices more important and important than others? How does the Church give room to all regardless of gender, orientation or theological belief? I'm excited about this year's church meeting. I'm also excited about how the members of the Church will take hold of the future for their own church, because now it's up to the Church itself. When ties are loosed between church and state, it is even more important that members take responsibility for the development of the concept of ‘the Church of People’. It will be exciting to see how that debate is moving forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2225	When you want to find the content of the concept, I did what maybe a lot of people do, I went to the dictionary – to the Great Norwegian Encyclopedia. It says: «People's Church, church communities as a matter of principle include all the people. Could be a state church, like the Norwegian one, but doesn't have to be. It differs in principle from the Church of Association, which is based on individual registration according to belief. People's Church is based on infant baptism and wants to include all those who have not been expelled. If the People's Church is independent of the state of government and economy, it is called a free church of the people. The church party under Professor A. Taranger's leadership worked at the beginning of the 1900s for free churches in Norway. The same thing happened, among other things. Norway's Christian landscape. In recent years’ church debate, the idea of free churches has once again prevailed in Norway. There is also a tendency to question the very concept of the Church, from the point of view of modern society as pluralistic and secular.’ And then I also swinged into Wikipedia -- which, of course, we do. It said briefly: ‘Church is usually used for churches that have an upsurge from the majority of the population of a country.’ The term is not new. It has now entered the Constitution, but there have been more places than in the Center Party programme. Already in 1996, the term was used in the Church Act, stressing the role of the Church of Norway as a people's church. But in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, it is important to discuss first of all in the Church itself. When I heard the last post from the representative of the Central Party, that really reinforces the idea that this is a debate that the Church itself should be running. It is not really a discussion that we should take in the political environment. The majority has recently been clear on stressing that our job is to support the Church's own mission. We say e.g. Int. 12 S for 2012–2013: ‘The Committee points out that the role of the Church Meeting is to give priority to the various fields of action in the church. The appropriations under the chapter shall support the objectives of the Church meeting for the Norwegian Church as a confessing, disparaging, ministering and open church. The Committee has noted that the Church meeting has adopted the following areas of activity, etc. With this as a backclothe, one might say that this debate is basically superfluous, but yet the Stortinget through the state-church agreement has used a term such as the "public church", and we have made it fundamental. It's not just a work accident. The difference between this religious community and others is, in my opinion, the historical relationship as a state church. It has been an important part of public Norway and, as a representative of the majority conference, it is home to much of Norway’s cultural and religious affiliation and has thus also had a natural place at large official events. In my opinion, the state should see itself served by a church community that takes on the task of being present throughout the country, and present to people most of the great events of life and nation in joy and sorrow. We see that many people have a religious need when something happens. Then it's important for the Christian People's Party that there is a place that you don't usually contact or go to regularly, but that you still feel is part of a joint ownership – a place where you can go, which is your own and which meets your needs. We saw after the tragic events of July 22 that people on their own initiative sought the church's room for sorrow and meditation. I have a expectation that the Norwegian Church will continue to carry out the mission that we have not asked others to do for us. It is free to establish itself anywhere, in how few or many places it will, but I also have a clear expectation of the Norwegian Church that it will be present throughout the country. It requires that we ensure sufficient funding for this to happen. I believe that the Church itself must have a definition of the people's church concept, and perhaps the vision of Agder and the Telemark Council of Bishops is the one that will ensure the presence of the people's Church in the future: «Near the sources of faith, near the people of the day».
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2258	Thank you to those who have taken part in the debate. I see that there is still a great deal of consensus about some of the basics, which is what we want the Church to be – although it was quite exciting to see how different the starting point one had for the debate. It might have something to do with the way the interpellation is formed, and I'll take note of that. I have to say that the emphasis might be more different than I thought. There is agreement that the Church should govern its own internal life, and there is agreement that we should not put ourselves in faith and teach. But I sometimes think it's a bit far drawn when we, as politicians, have introduced a term into the Constitution, and then say that this is what the Church has to figure out. There's a mission that you've meant something about here. As politicians, that part must be thought of, otherwise the term would not be in the Constitution – otherwise the Church can decide that they will not be a church of the people. That is why I have raised this debate, that the part that we have said should be in place, we must be able to be clear about it. Therefore, I think that when there are own funds set aside in the budget for religious training, it is affordable that the Council of State is clear to say that yes, the purpose of that money was that there should be a content upgrade in terms of faith. I think that's great. I actually think it's completely in place, and I don't think it's going too far. But there are some clear boundaries between what one has set of resources to, and asked them to do a job with, and what lies in the usual operation of a religion. Thank you for the feedback to everyone who has taken part in the debate. We have more debates on this, both on electoral arrangements and certainly on funding, and new rounds in new periods of magnificence on the relationship between state and church. And we know that that's going to be interesting. In the meantime, we're going to deal with a wish for a people's church, which is going to be there for everyone, who has a mission to be there, and who is going to be an open, red and inclusive church.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2272	I would also like to say a thousand thanks for a good and interesting debate that is great that we can conduct, and I hope that in the future we may also have valued debates in this Chamber – even if we have a different relationship with the Norwegian Church than we have had before. In the budget proposal for this year, we wrote the following: ‘An overall consideration in the work of the church system is to ensure that the Norwegian Church is maintained and passed on as a church of the people, i.e. that the church is present and present in all communities and that it is relevant to the members of the church throughout life. Future changes in the church system must always have this public church perspective in mind.’ I think it was quite well said, and I think it must be taken into account when we are going to continue working on our relationship with the Norwegian Church. The selection scheme will be the first test piece on this. There I have chosen to listen to Stortinget, who has asked me to submit a proposal in close cooperation with the organs of the Norwegian Church. So it'll be up to this hall if you want to go in the same direction, or if you want to go in different directions than the Norwegian Church does. That would also be interesting, because in the work on advice for us, the Church Meeting and the Church Council have had different input. How to weigh those recordings, it's going to be interesting to see – also how this hall is going to deal with it. Thank you again for a good debate. I hope that in the future, too, we will be allowed to take an interest in what is the content of the Norwegian Church, so that the provisions of the Constitution are also put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2288	So the debate is on case No. Eight is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2304	The non-profit voluntary organisations constitute a valuable and, in particular, a contribution to the welfare society, in relation to both public operations and commercial activities. Many experience the meeting with the organisation as the rescue of a difficult life situation or as an offer they have missed in the public utility. An example is the Court of Justice, which is a user-led foundation that addresses its offer to the long-term abuse of alcohol and drugs, as well as to repeaters in the criminal justice system. The Court meets users as equals and can continue its own experience in such a way that drug addicts, criminals or relatives can make better use of a treatment offer within and outside institutions. It was after the committee meeting with this organisation earlier this year that I took the initiative to take a debate. When organisations meet politicians, it is often for advice on where to apply and how to deal with the public. It's actually very difficult to answer, even for us as the granting authority. It's quite inconclusive. The entitlement is only one of several who find it difficult to compete with large, well-known and well-established organisations for the same grant items. They do not have the administrative resources required to reach them. In bidding rounds, they do not come because they cannot deliver everything they need, and the large organisations naturally do not want subcontractors as long as they can do the job themselves. If these organisations are to adapt to the tendering system, the specific nature of the tender will disappear. The requirement of formal competence, different positions, etc. does not always fit into the concepts of the various organisations based on ideology, and not on the offer normally made by public authorities. Organisations based initially on non-profit, or based on equal work, which fill an empty space in the public utility must invest more and more resources to provide resources for operations. This is very demanding for organisations with relatively few employees and small administrative appliances. This also takes valuable time and money from what should have been used to provide a good welfare offer, and not from lobbying or administrative tasks to get involved in the youth of grant schemes. It is assumed that lobbying has increased considerably in recent years, but there is no basis for numerical developments. The growth of an industry such as carrying out and assisting in lobbying can be an indication that lobbying is increasing to an extent, and this offer can itself contribute to creating demand. It is difficult to imagine anything other than that such recruitment will result in an increase in work tasks related to lobbying against the public sector. The cost of lobbying, in particular if organised and with professional assistance, is easier to bear for economically strong organisations than for others. For this reason, lobbying can be criticised for creating inequalities in access to democratic decision-making processes. Voluntary and non-profit institutions serving households may act as a public policy instrument. As ‘instruments’, the grants that contribute to the achievement of policy objectives and values are received, but the special thing is that they develop offers that cannot be replaced by the public. In the context of new public health law, the government has said that it will follow up the work of systematically and actively including NPISHs in the further work on the cooperation reform. I ask, what has happened, and how does the government think to follow up on this? Such a system is currently particularly difficult for new actors developing new offers, to continue or further develop their offers when predictability is lacking. Ideal and voluntary work starts with collected funds and fires, but requires permanent paid staff as tasks increase. This applies not only to small, new actors, but also to well-known, large organisations that have previously been based mainly on voluntary efforts. Society is developing and changes are also relevant to the operation of voluntary work and non-profit institutions serving households. It is important that both the well-established, the large organisations and the smaller and the newer are given the opportunity to contribute to the fulfilment of the intentions of big messages and the laws that the Stortinge adopts – I mention, among other things. Cooperation reform and the Public Health Act. The volunteers contribute to important areas of drugs, psychiatry, poverty, to criminals, children, disabled people, the elderly, and I will also mention the animal protection organisations. There have been many examples of the news in recent times that have shown that there is a need for much closer cooperation with voluntary organisations towards the public sector. Interaction and cooperation are important, but what is also important is that it does not build up a large bureaucracy that takes money. There should be a transparent system that is easily accessible. There is broad political agreement on the important role of organisations in the future as a complement to public services, but they need better conditions. Organisations cannot live without public contributions. The ambition for all to contribute to the working life of their workforce is also cross-political, and if this ambition is fulfilled, many who are currently contributing to voluntary unpaid work will be in paid jobs. What I call for in this debate is a better overall overview of all grant schemes and how the funds are distributed. More predictability and simpler application processes are also needed which do not create unnecessary bureaucracy for organisations. It is good social economy to organize for the ideal and voluntary sector, and as I see it, unnecessary bureaucracy is wasted welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2332	The representative of Giltun asks whether the government will facilitate and coordinate the government grant schemes. She asks if we want to create a user-friendly website with a full overview of government grant schemes and application forms. I assume that there are grant schemes that are important to the non-profit organisations, the representative asks me to respond to. Let me first stress that the investment in voluntary and non-profit institutions is greater under this government than ever before. One of the main sources of funding for the activity of the non-profit organisations is not grants, but revenues from the provision of welfare services to the public. The Government has entered into a cooperation agreement with the umbrella organisations Freedom Norway, the Main Organisation Work, the Ideal Network and the KS Enterprise, representing non-profit actors providing health and social services to state activities. The agreement recognises that the non-profit sector is an important public sector partner in the provision of health and social services to the population and shall contribute to better cooperation between the state and the non-profit sector. The aim of the agreement is to further develop and improve the service provision of patients and users. It is my department that has worked on this agreement, and as the one responsible for its follow-up, I am happy to be able to participate in the debate here today. This also applies because the proposal is about simplification in the public sector, as I am also responsible for the government's work on this. The government has strengthened the framework conditions of non-governmental organisations by establishing and stepping up the VAT compensation scheme for non-governmental organisations. The scheme was established in January 2010 with a budget of 396 million. kr. In 2012, around 16 000 associations and layers received VAT compensation. In 2013, the allocation to the scheme is 948 million. kr. The government has established a voluntary register and a collection register. The Ministry of Culture has launched a three-year project in the register field to ensure that data reporting is as simple as possible for organisations. The records and data from the registers shall also be optimally used by the administration and others. Work is carried out in consultation with the voluntary sector. The research programme ‘Virtual Centre for Research in Civil Society and the Voluntary Sector’ was launched in 2008 and has contributed to knowledge of changes and developments in the voluntary sector. 135 new volunteer centres have been established since 2005. We've strengthened the Free Fund scheme by about 50 million. NOK over the State budget, in addition to an increase in the share of the scheme over the key. In the case of more money that can be used freely for their own purposes, the government has made it easier for the voluntary sector in recent years. At the same time, the sector has indicated that application and reporting requirements are perceived as bureaucratic. They may also find it difficult to get an overview of all that is possible to apply for. The government has a clear objective that organisations should spend minimal time on forms and maximum time on activity. I Prop. No 1 S for 2012–2013: ‘The government will facilitate interaction between the public and voluntary sectors. The aim is to facilitate, where appropriate, application and reporting requirements relating to different State grant schemes and to facilitate the availability of information on State grant schemes.’;» At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture of the United Kingdom, the Government, in its work on simplification and coordination of grant schemes, has in the first instance concentrated on the organisations of children and young people. The Ministry of Culture has established a website with an overview of grants that children’s and youth organisations can apply for. A permanent meeting point has been established between state support managers, children’s and youth organisations and the Ministry to ensure a sustained focus on the coordination and simplification of grant schemes. Work has been started on developing an adviser for managers of grants to children’s and youth organisations. The Ministry of Culture is currently carrying out a survey of all State grant schemes for which the entire voluntary sector can apply. This will provide valuable knowledge for further work on assessing more simplification and coordination measures for grant schemes. It is a good intention of the representative Giltun to create a website with a full overview of government grant schemes. But we have to ask ourselves how it is most appropriate to gather such information. We have already established a website with an overview of grants that children’s and youth organisations can apply for. This makes sense because in many ways there is a uniform candidate group with member-based organisations. In addition, there are very high levels of management tournaments in the children’s and youth organisations. It makes it extra important to organise with good information from the state. If we are to go further in the direction of a common portal for all state grant schemes, it will become significantly more complicated. Among other things, it will have to adapt to applicants who are very different both in terms of organisation and the purpose of the organisation. We need to consider the whole thing, both what can make it easier for those seeking, and not least the administrative and economic consequences of different proposals. I see that it could be useful with more information about the needs of the non-profit organisations before we take a final position on the proposal for a common portal. I would therefore like to take the initiative to discuss this issue with the organisations in connection with one of the dialogue meetings to which the cooperation agreement refers. Norway needs the ideal organisations. The government will be a partner in contributing to a strong and living civil society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2365	I get to say that I think it is positive that the government has started to work with simplification, and that you have started to create an Internet page within the area of children and young people at least. I can't understand anything but that it must be so important to make it in the social field, and also in some other areas. I don't understand that making an overview can be so complicated. At least it is even more complicated to look at the jungle of grants when you don't have that overview. Being able to get a full overview will also help us politicians who are going to grant, so that we can see where the money goes. I was inside the Nav website, it was well last year, and quite early in the year it said that no more grants were given to non-governmental organisations that wanted to apply. There was nothing for new organizations, just for those who had already received. That's the problem I'm dealing with here, new organizations, that's the budding of new ideal offers – it's not that easy for them to get into the heat. In the submissions of the Council of State, it was found that the public would use the non-profit sector a lot in the form of tenders. These offers don't make it. These are offers based on peer-to-peer work, which have been managed and developed only for the benefit of the user, not developed with a view to adapting to the public vis-à-vis employees, in relation to positions, in relation to competences, etc. What they're showing is that what they're doing is working. Results show that they address a target group that is not properly or satisfactorily addressed by the public. So they're filling a blank space that's a little bit on the outside of the other one. It is important in the years that come, that we let go of actors, and that we not only take care of the big tongues established, which are gradually becoming more and more public. There's no goal in itself. The goal is to be able to have special offers and to be able to reach them in the same way in order to have opportunities to operate. In addition, non-profit institutions cannot rely on large gifts from heavy players such as mutual or large enterprises throughout all years. They are often involved as birth helpers, and when they see that this is something that public needs, it is expected that the government will also provide. If the organizations could at least avoid spending a lot of money on lobbyism and administration, it would make a lot of sense. I hope that work will be done in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2374	First, I would like to say that it is fully possible to get a reasonably clear overview of the subsidies that are currently available to the public. On each department's website there is a separate link from the front page where you can go in and find the subsidies in question that each department has at any time. The Health Directorate also has a very good side with health and social benefits, in which it is easy to identify, so opportunities lie there. So what we don't have is a common side for all types of grants in all sectors. I think the representative Giltun showed the difference between all kinds of organisations that can draw grants from the public, from animal protection alliances, those who work with animal welfare, to grants that target themselves more directly to individual areas. So the issue here is, and the interpellation is about, is how we can simplify the way we give these grants, and as I said in my main post, we're doing it well. Then there is a completely different matter which of the non-profit organisations will receive grants to run the public sector. Some will provide services that require the use of procurement legislation. It is then open to say that only the voluntary organisations will participate in those tenders, if it is deemed appropriate, but this must be done within the framework set by the EEA Agreement, and I believe that the Progress Party agrees that we should do so within the framework set up by the EEA Agreement. Our government is now spending more money on non-profit institutions and the provision of health and social services than it has ever been, but it is the amount of money that determines whether new organisations are going to get in and automatically receive subsidies from the government budget, not an Internet portal or the way we publish the grants. The key will be the priorities and clarifications made, whether we are going to use the public health system, the ideals or the private in the future, and there will probably be some political blows in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2383	I would first like to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant. As I see it, this interpellation is not just about the concrete proposal that is being promised, namely that one should try to coordinate more closely the information on the various support schemes, but it is about a problem that may be a bit deeper, namely that it is a challenge for the public system to coordinate. That's the one. The second is that there are very many private and ideal actors, among others. within the area as, inter alia: the labour and social committee is working on, which lives almost from hand to mouth, even though they provide services and offers that I believe everyone in the political environment is concerned about and believes are important. With regard to the first problem, lack of coordination, I had almost said that it was a challenge for the Right's relatively modest group to find out who was going to take the discussion here today. When, with 30 people, we have problems coordinating ourselves for one interpellation debate, it's not hard to understand that the state can have problems with it with so many instances. There are also many stories that particularly groups falling between several chairs — in prison, with drug problems, lack of work and, in this way, should be in contact with Nav — have problems in briefing in the system. But then there is also a challenge for organisations working with them, and there the representative Giltun mentioned an example, the Court, because they also fall between all these chairs when they are going to visit the public and actually do something as simple as getting support for the offer they are running, which everyone thinks is important. This is difficult, because you should contact the State Council of Huitfeldt, or you should contact the Ministry of Renewal, or you should contact the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health of the Directorate of Health, for example. – There are aid schemes everywhere, but it is difficult. That is why a joint labour and social committee also sent a letter to the Ministry of Labour a few years ago, asking for better coordination, on the basis of the Court case and the input we had received there. Then is the second issue that the interpellant raises, the discussion about what all these ideal, private organisations that fall outside the social welfare systems should live on, and how they should get predictability. I have to say, without the Right having a detailed plan for it, because we haven't come that far, that it must be a point that you get paid for the services you actually provide when the public uses them. If you are an authorised action provider within the Nav system, or purchased by Nav, this works very well. Then you get orders, and then you get the payment given the number of places, and then the money comes in. On the other hand, if – to use the Court as an example again, since it has been brought up as an example in this interpellation debate – you provide a service, an offer, which everyone agrees that both are unique and incredibly important, and which is even referred to from Nav offices around Oslo city, then there is no stable funding. It's funny that the public system refers to a private, ideal offer, but at the same time it doesn't have a system to finance it. That kind of problem I think you'll find again in a lot of fields. That is why there is an important discussion by Mr Giltun. I don't know if the world has become much more transparent since the Internet came, but it can sometimes help a little.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2396	First I want to thank Torbjørn Røe Isaksen for an article that I think was very good to hear. I agree with everything he said, and he clearly also understood my opinion of the interpellation. Actually, it wasn't as easy to know who to correct this interference, so I tried with Schjøtt-Pedersen, like so many others. It didn't work out! In fact, different grant schemes are under so many different departments and also within municipalities. I think we can agree that there is a waste of time for associations to spend many days and weeks each year and many jobs in developing these systems and searching and searching and searching. Those who work in associations, those who are employed there and have wages, have an even more unpredictable job than most others. If, as I said in my previous post, we are going to fulfill the intentions that all those who have the ability to work are going to pay for work, who is it when we think that we are going to work free of charge in the voluntary organizations? Who's that? It must be the pensioners who don't want a job. We have to deal with this: do we want non-profit institutions? Do we want new ones, do we want bud shooting? Or should we just have those who have been for many, many years: the Red Cross, the Blue Cross, very, very good organizations that do a great job, the Salvation Army – all the big ones? Shouldn't there also be room for new ones to get out of this system? It doesn't just help with an Internet page – it was just to get a debate going, which you have to write in the introduction text. At least it can be the first step towards red tape and simplification. And then there's another important question: how are you going to take care of the ideal commitment and volunteering of the years to come? Because there is no doubt that you will get more and more use for them. The public is unable to meet users in the same way. There are very often typical lowthreshold services and many times people who have poor public experience, who do not want to go to the public to get help, who meet something they cannot meet in the public utility. It's about making better arrangements, and I also hope that the Council of State will include small organisations when she's going to work on this matter, not just the very largest umbrella organisations, because it's actually the ones that have the least problems. The problem lies in new ones, and new ones are probably so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2409	I would also like to thank you for a debate on a topic that is very important. We have long and good traditions in Norway for close cooperation with the non-profit sector. There was also a background to the government's initiative to establish a cooperation agreement with the organisations providing services to the public in the field of health and care. I understand that there has been a great deal of excitement among the non-profit organisations about the way we have worked with it, both because we want to give more predictability and to be able to recognise what is the non-profit sector's peculiarity in the deliveries within the health and care sector. With regard to the specific question that I perceive the interpellation is about, I am happy to be able to answer it, because I am responsible for simplification in the public sector. It's clear that this is an area where we can get more simplification. For this reason, the government has already taken the initiative of a common portal for the grant schemes concerned with children’s and youth organisations. As I said in my main post, we are now in the process of identifying all kinds of grant schemes, so that we have a full overview of them. For the time being, we have tried to improve the offer by adding our own links from our websites and from the largest directorates, where all grants are collected. Then I want to discuss the matter with the partners we have established, just to hear how you experience it, and how that page might be designed – whether it would be appropriate to have something more about outdoor life and more about health and social services. It could be a way to organize such a work. But the most important thing for the voluntary and non-profit organizations, I think, is the promise that the government has made by increasing the subsidies to the work they do, so that we can still make sure that we have non-profit organisations that can work for the benefit of people in cooperation with government organisations in the health and social field, and also in very many other areas where they make an invaluable effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2418	So the debate is on case No. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2432	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2441	First, I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in this matter. This is a matter that everyone in the Committee believes is important, although we have different conclusions on how to best follow up the issue. The issue is largely about how politicians facilitate the combination of work and care tasks. In these areas, there are clear political lines between the opposition and the government parties. First of all, there are opportunities to maintain a strong welfare country. Two relationships may, in my view, threaten it. The first is safe economic governance. The right in Stortinget – as far as I know – did not want to guarantee that the rule of action should be followed. They suggest that billions should be redistributed from the community to individuals, and they will weaken the redistribution of income between municipalities. The cooperation between the Right and the Advance Party will provide a policy closer to the Advance Party than the Christian People's Party. The other relationship is in my view the line of work. In my view, the labour policy of the Right and the Advance Party does not facilitate a working life that embraces all, in all stages of life. The guarantee for this lies in strong tripartite cooperation, where the trade union movement has a great deal of central responsibility and authority. The Right Party and the Advance Party will have a different society. For me, these are two key issues that are of major importance for the development of welfare systems in the future. The Workers' Party will ensure that welfare schemes provide freedom of choice. The size has previously adopted other regulatory changes that improve the possibilities for both parents to better combine care and work. The arrangements for related work must not be designed in such a way that parents lose contact with the working life over time or that care tasks fall on only one parent. They must be arranged in such a way that absence from work does not become so long that it becomes impossible to return. These are also key elements of NOU 2011:17 When true, care of relatives is to be said. It is good to live in a country where we can actually discuss the extension of welfare systems and not – as many parliamentarians in Europe need to do – need to address government deficits through dramatic cuts in important welfare schemes. For the Workers' Party, it is important that policies are designed to enable parents to live a good life even when one or more of the children are seriously ill. The Community shall be a safety network in order to enable parents who have children with serious, unstable health conditions to participate in the care and care of their children and to be guaranteed opportunities for participation. Yes, there is a need for improvement. Several factors are involved: the picture of disease and survival has changed. Today more children live longer with serious diagnosis than just a few years ago. There is therefore a need for rapid and clear procedures, clear legislation and high quality cooperation between parents and auxiliary workers. It is important to see the individual and, equally, to have legislation that can take account of individual needs. Each family is unique, although they have much in common when they have one or more seriously ill children. We want a code that lives in time and with the time we live in. When allocating welfare measures on behalf of the Community, the administration encounters many demanding border crossings between the responsibilities of municipalities, Navs and parents. Decisions shall balance non-discrimination, predictability, legal certainty and discretionary judgement. I believe it is important that each case is assessed independently, and that the professional judgement and competence of employees are of high quality. Safety and quality are equally important in this sector as in the hospital sector. The government has taken action to get a more comprehensive review of the different arrangements related to care, and I think that is very good. The majority therefore believe that it is best that we wait for the further examination of NOO 2011:17 before making any conclusions in this case. It's not because we don't want good arrangements, but it's precisely because this is such an important welfare area that we need an overall assessment and review of the actions we can take. I am very pleased that the government will come to the Storting with a follow-up of the NOU, and I believe that the entire committee is impatient to get solutions in place, and we look forward to the further consideration and follow-up of the NOU 2011:17.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2467	I am pleased that we all see that there are major shortcomings in today's legislation and practice in providing good care and care for the most vulnerable children living in our society. This case is neither about the line of work nor about the rule of action. It deals – with respect for reporting – with welfare policies for a vulnerable group; with children who are seriously ill. That's why I want to use my post to talk about what this is actually about. This is about parents who may already have children, and who have a new child with a strong disability or a very serious illness, and where to get their everyday life together – a everyday life where to balance working life, leisure time and being a good mother and father for the new child who needs care, but it is also about being a good mother and father for the other children in the family. How are we going to make it possible for families to function in such a situation, both in the workplace and to cope with the hardship of everyday life in order to provide the most valuable care for their children? TV 2 has illustrated major differences in how this is being followed through several surveys in our country. There is a major difference in the practice of legislation. If you talk to children’s doctors around the country, they also point out that there is a big difference in the practice of the legislation and that it has become more difficult to receive care now than in 2006. I think it's signals you have to take seriously. I don't think it should be different if you have a seriously ill child and live in Tromsø, Oslo, Bergen or Kristiansand. The law and practice must be equal, no matter where you live. That's what this case is about. I have visited many of the children that TV 2 has mentioned. I have been to their homes and visited both the parents and the children. I've seen how their everyday life is in practice. It has at least given me a completely different understanding and understanding of what these matters are about. It is at least to those degrees about something other than both the line of work and the rule of action. It's about understanding people, with their everyday problems and everyday challenges, and how we're going to be able to organise a good welfare society for them. In the case of NOU 2011:17 When it is true to say about the care of relatives and the Kaasa committee mentioned, I record that it takes an incredible amount of time before we get these cases processed in Stortinget. It is almost possible to ask questions as to whether there is a decision-making refusal outside and going when we know that the sample was reduced on 25 June 2010. It took exactly one year and four months before they presented their investigation, and we have to defend it, because they did a thorough job. But it has now also been one year and four months after the investigation was presented, without having managed to bring a case to Stortinget. Three years have passed since the sample was reduced. I expect the pace to be increased and a case to be brought forward, and the government to become clear on what policy you want to pursue towards this vulnerable group. The children we're talking about don't have time to wait for months and years before you get a complete review. What the Progress Party is proposing here are simple steps that can be taken quickly, pending the large, comprehensive treatment, to ensure the welfare policy is about: more warmth, more dignity and more well-being for those who need it most and are most vulnerable. With that, I would like to address the proposals that the Progress Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2484	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2487	Some of the heaviest things you can experience as a parent must be that your child is becoming heavily nurturing, like disabled or seriously ill. Being a baby’s mother or father is already demanding enough, and when you also have a child who needs help 24 hours a day, whether the health problems are congenital or have come as a result of, for example, An accident, it's clear that it puts the timing we're other people complaining about, in perspective. Of course, you don't have to paint black. Like all other parents, you will experience bright and dark moments with your child. You want to be proud and suspicious of each other, and you want to put your child ahead of everything else. What's the difference, I guess, is that a strong nursing child takes so much more time. To combine the care you want to give the child with a regular 100 pst. job, get difficult, if not impossible. Therefore, I am pleased that we have schemes that add to this to some extent, such as care allowance or care allowance. But as already pointed out, today's system does not work satisfactorily. Changes in the practice of legislation in recent years – I see that the Council of State says it has not been the case, but it feels that way – as well as overlapping benefits from different public bodies, have given little predictability to the families for whom the schemes are applicable. This is particularly unfortunate because the families involved are often in a difficult situation and therefore need decent, safe and predictable public support schemes. There is therefore little doubt that there is a need for a larger conversion of this field. Fortunately, the work on this conversion is in progress. As we heard, the Kaasa Committee delivered its report in 2011. The hearing is over, and the matter is with the government. As we in the right write in the comments: We expect a quick follow-up on this matter. The families and children involved have waited long enough. It is important that this field is seen in the context. Everything is related to everything, it was said once, and in this field it is especially important to get complete solutions. It should also be broadly anchored on the Stortinget. As we've been told, families with nursing children need predictability, and it can't be that the rules change every four years. Therefore, the right will not vote in favour of proposals which, in our view, involve a significant change in the term of care at the present time. However, there is one proposal we want to promote here today, and it is related to a proposal that we have raised earlier in a representative proposal, namely Document 8:55 S for 2010-2011, where the Stortinget asks the government to propose that care allowance be given to parents in the context of intensive child treatment and rehabilitation. This proposal should be promoted as part of a major change of care arrangements. The notified change of the care allowance scheme should allow care allowance to be given to parents in the context of intensive treatment and rehabilitation of the child. This was the case until the legislative tightening up for a few years ago — at least the practice was changed. This should therefore be the case again. I have to be allowed to say that when the debate started today with the speakers' posts, my heart sank in my chest. At that time, we were invited to a debate on the rule of action, on local economy, on working life in full breadth and tripartite cooperation. It's important debates, I totally agree with that, but it's not these issues that should be the focus when we talk about being a granddaughter and a granddaughter or a parent to older children with strong disabilities and care needs. In fact, I think that the Storting should be able to concentrate on what is important for this group in this particular case. Then we can come back to debate the rule of action and the local economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2511	It's a very difficult situation for many relatives, who work hard and get too little support and help for their care tasks when they have a disabled child. Many are doing well, and many are getting good support, but for some it is not possible to get time and strength to reach. For many, too, the economy does not stretch. Therefore, the Kaasa Committee has identified different schemes that should be able to remedy this. In addition to that, I would like to mention that the Kaasa Committee also says that they have received insights into serious failures due to lack of follow-up and control, where the user has been affected by care failure or direct abuse. It's an important side of these things that we might rarely discuss. I think it's also this bad feeling that's in the stomach of some of these parents when they don't have the care of their kids: that they're in a care package, but that they don't feel safe about it. I think that's one of the things that affects me the most when I go through this and other enquiries from the users. There are also a lot of parents who end up lonely, and who pay with their own health when they don't get good enough help, whether it's economics or services from the municipality. It is true that this matter needs to be seen in a larger context. But I also have to say that when the sample mentions that the arrangements we now have are going to be sustainable from a social point of view, I think there are a lot of these care tasks that are probably sustainable from a social perspective, especially when women do the job free of charge. That's the way it's been, but that's not how it can continue to be, because these are people who don't have a choice. That's why I think we need to have good arrangements for these families. I believe that there is reason to look at all the proposals made by the Kaasa Committee, and in particular some of the changes in the system, which are also about diagnosis and medical evaluation. For it is difficult to assess what is serious enough, and there are concepts such as ‘durable’ and ‘unstable’ etc. What is stable in these families is often that it is unstable. The situation is permanent, and it is probably also such that more stable and good arrangements around these families would ensure that just a lot of us agree, namely that it is important for mother and father to have contact with the labour market. I think that the calmness and stability that a little bit better arrangements would contribute to would increase the opportunity for more people to have contact with the labour market, and I think that's good. I also think that most of these children and families need to be in different environments than just at home. It might be that for some people it's the right solution, but I think it's a very small minority. I think most people need other measures, where you can meet other people and other children and experience other things. So I believe in these combinations, but I think that the triggering factor for the parents to have the best possible work relationship and the kids to get the best possible life is that we get a whole better package for these families, and that the fine-tuning in terms of diagnosis and assessment – whether it's a very unstable phase, and how serious this is – may not be what we give the most attention to in this matter. Because I think it's hard, even purely medical, to set these limits, sail if I see that they have to be there. Then I'm probably a little more doubtful that the care pay system in the municipal sector is necessarily a very good system. We're going to discuss this in more detail when we go through this, but I think there must be arrangements that are at least the same for everyone across the country. There are some things that should be different, and that may well be different in different municipalities, but the right to benefit because you have large and urgent care tasks for young people with serious illnesses and disabilities, I think should be equal, regardless of which municipality your parents live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2528	There are important human relationships that are addressed in the matter today. There is a challenging situation for many families, and relatives make a great effort and are a great security for the children. The proposal seeks to ensure better rights to care for relatives with seriously ill children. That position is in agreement with the Central Party. The reason for the proposal is that relatives have been refused or have been deprived of Nav's care allowance for children who have been very serious or temporarily ill. Nav’s rejections state in most cases that the child suffers from a ‘permanent condition’ and that there is no very serious illness, whether there is a medical statement that the child is considered to have a life-limiting disease or is seriously ill. I would like to point out that there is disagreement about how to define ‘very serious disease’ and ‘long-term disease’ and that this indicates that the limits are therefore unclear. As a result of changes in the practice following a social security judgment, this has given a new interpretation of the legislation regarding the right to care allowance. These families have major challenges to make family life work, including in the form of health and social challenges. I would like to stress that it is important to provide comprehensive assistance for families with children who suffer from life-threatening or other very serious illness. The public must cooperate with the family in order to find the best solution, not only for the child – who has been involved by others – but also for the family as a whole. It is also important that it helps the public with knowledge of the best help, which I would like to stress very strongly. Parents who take care of children who suffer from life-threatening or other very serious illness often experience wear and tear in the couple's relationship, and several couples do not put this burden on them. I would therefore like to stress the importance of recognising and respecting the work done when parents have to take care of their sick children. For the public, it would be reasonable for such efforts to be supported by care allowance and made at home, rather than for the child to be taken care of by the public. It is therefore important that the public facilitate such cooperation, both with parents/family and with non-profit-making non-profit institutions serving households. For the Centre Party, there is no alternative with private, commercial interests aimed at making money on such activities. The care allowance is calculated as sick pay and paid by 100 pst. on the sick pay basis of workers, limited to 6 G. As a seafaring trader, only 65 psts are paid. on the sick pay basis, limited to 6 G. A non-discrimination between relatives, whether they are seafaring traders or employees, I consider that quite rightly. The Cheese Selection suggests up to 50 pst. care allowance for dependants for children with long-term disabilities. I would like to ask the Ministry to come to Stortinget as soon as possible with a follow-up to the Kaasa Committee's position regarding both the defined conditions of illness and the amounts of parental care allowance, whether they are employed as employees or as maritime workers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2547	I was very surprised when the case rapporteur took the floor, made his statement and began to look into whether there was another matter we were going to debate – namely, one thing about how parents should be able to combine care and work, the line of work, etc. But this case is about very ill children, children who may be sick 24 hours a day, and who need help and support from parents. Fortunately, the matter is not a matter that concerns many people, but it is an issue that is incredibly important for the few. Families with very ill children are vulnerable and need all the support and care we can provide. Recently, Nav has changed the practice of care allowance, which has resulted in many families with children such as children. have, and many may have it for both four and five and six years, major head injuries, long-term diseases or other serious diseases requiring continuous supervision and care, have lost this benefit and have thus been put in a particularly difficult situation. The children who are sick, need their parents, and those who are very ill, need them extra. Parents know their children and know their needs, and instead of a stranger caring for the sick child, parents themselves should have the opportunity to be at home. It is best for children to be the guiding principle when deciding whether to provide care. Therefore, the rules cannot be rigid and square – they must take care of the individual child and its condition. The Christian People's Party therefore proposes that the care allowance be given when the best thing for the child is that the parents themselves care for the child at home. The basis for whether or not to provide money must be based on the child’s condition, not on diagnosis, even if the disease lasts for more than two years. According to the UN Children's Convention, children have the right to live with their parents. We are therefore obliged – in my opinion – to ensure this as far as possible. Unfortunately, there are some examples of families with very ill children being offered a place at the child’s institution rather than a care allowance, without the best for the child being assessed. We can't have it that way. Families with very ill children need not only financial assistance but also support and care in their situation. It is therefore appropriate to facilitate the existence of family-accessible advisers or guides. These may contribute to information, guidance on support schemes and coordinate the launch of current support measures. Care allowance is very important for each family, and it is therefore very unfortunate that the government is voting against this proposal. This proposal does not concern many, but it is very important for those affected. Let me do an example that's quite new. It's a family with a newborn baby with a very rare disease. It took one year to get the diagnosis, and in that period, the family received care allowance. They had the right to – even under the legislation – but then they were deprived of it. The child was offered a nursery and could get an assistant in the nursery in a full-time manner. It was just that the child was so sick that it was advised not to be in kindergarten by the doctor. It had to be home. Care allowance from Nav? No, they couldn't. The family's struggling. If they get a care allowance, at best it'll only be one more year. No one knows this disease. I have understood that there is probably no one else in Norway who has it. We have a system today that has to take account of the very sickest children in another way. So we're not talking about anyone who can be in school or kindergarten, but who has to be at home. Some actually have to be home for more than two years because they're so sick. Maybe they'll get fresh again -- that's what the parents are hoping for. But I urge the Council of State to go back to the legislation and the opportunity you had for just a few years. - This can be documented.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2570	The proposal here concerns the extension of the entitlement to care allowance to dependants with sick children under the National Social Security Act § 9-11. The representatives propose three changes: automatic admission of care allowances by a medical specialist’s statement, removal of the term ‘long-term unstable condition’ from the law, and retention of the right to care even if the child can attend kindergarten, school and SFO for periods of time. In addition, four additional proposals have been put forward in the vote on the matter. Many families with extensive care tasks face daily major challenges. It is important to have good welfare solutions for relatives of seriously ill children, both through services and benefits. We agree on that. That was the background for us setting up the Kaasa Committee, and the sample has presented several proposals that we believe will help families with burdensome care tasks. I know that parents with very seriously ill children are in a difficult situation. It is therefore important that we know in which cases they are entitled to care allowance and in which cases municipalities have the primary responsibility for providing services. I believe that the administrative reorganisation of this area has been an improvement. Increasing the procedure from the first line to the state level in Nav has helped to make care money handling more uniform throughout Norway. Then not everyone agrees with the assessments that have been made, but it's at least more consistent than before. This ensures predictability for users. Nursing allowance replaces lost labour income due to non-permanent care tasks. Municipalities are responsible for providing their citizens with the necessary assistance and assistance. So the main responsibility for helping families with large care obligations lies with the municipalities today. The proposers believe that their proposals are a relatively simple improvement. As I see it, this proposal goes significantly beyond what is proposed in the Kaasa investigation. You can estimate an increase in expenditure of about 9 billion. If you follow all these suggestions when we've figured it out. This is not a matter of minor legislative amendments, but quite extensive. I would like briefly to comment on the three proposals that are being promoted. In my view, the automatic granting of care allowance will be inappropriate, all the time when the Employment and Welfare Act has to decide on several conditions – not just medical ones – for the treatment of care expenses. It concerns vesting time, minimum income and the calculation of the benefit itself. It's based on the income you have. Therefore, the establishment must in any case make an assessment. I think it is not desirable to leave the entire decision-making authority to the health service. I interpret the proposal to remove the term ‘sustainable instability’ from the law so that it is proposed to provide care even in permanent cases. In such cases, care may only be given today when the disease is in an unstable phase. So there's a list of what diseases this is all about, and ME came on the list in the spring of 2012. The proposal will significantly extend the right to provide benefits, with significantly increased costs. So the question of the consequences of children participating in periods in kindergarten, school and SFO. I can inform the Storting that I have recently asked the Director of Labour and Welfare to develop new guidelines to ensure that short-term, occasional and irregular visits to relief schemes, such as kindergarten, school, etc., do not result in a further reduction or reduction of care. When the new guidelines are in place, it will appear that such visits are not to be considered as an established system of supervision and relief leading to a reduction of care allowances. I believe that we must now give the Ministry of Health and Welfare and my department the time they need to ensure the follow-up to the Kaasa investigation. I'm open that there may be a need for change. Substantial changes related to permanent disease are also proposed in the proposal of the Kaasa Committee. So we can make some changes now, for example. in the case of short-stay stays in the SFO or kindergartens. But the permanent changes we need some more time. I believe, however, that it is unfortunate to anticipate this work of urgency through an unbridled and cost-intensive legislative change, of which we do not know the consequences. I am pleased that the majority in the committee sees this. The size will be briefed on the follow-up work in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2592	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2595	I react to the Council of State saying that we are anticipating the work. What has happened in this case is that you had a completely different practice before the Stoltenberg government came to power. Then they put down the Kaasa committee, which started with, among other things. care allowance and in line with the auxiliary benefit. Then we got a debate because Nav changed his practice in 2006. We had a debate on this in Stortinget. Then the government added care money as part of the Kaasa Committee – if I don't remember completely wrong. So here it's not about anticipating the work. We stood here in the pulpit and asked the previous council if she couldn't let them keep the allowance until the Kaasa Committee was finished – and don't stop the care money and then wait for the Kaasa Committee. Because that's what happened. I want the Council of State's assessment of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2600	I am a little uncertain about what the representative means by stopping the care allowance. For this is not a lasting performance. There has always been a temporary performance. There has also been no change in the rules. What has happened is that they have moved the handling of these matters from the local Nav office to the state level. It has ensured that there has been a more consistent practice. It's important to ensure predictability, so you know what you're dealing with. So there have been no changes in the rules in this area. If we are to implement changes, I believe it is important that there are changes that benefit the whole country. The Kaasa Committee has proposed a number of extensions to the scheme. If we are going to make a better arrangement, I believe that it will benefit all of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2607	It is right that there is a temporary regulatory regime. But Nav has – and they haven't done it for many years – currently used a two-year rule. It is not, in my view, politically treated anywhere. There are very many children who suffer from serious diseases that may get fresh again, but that may be sick for more than two years. It is also quite right that there has become a more consistent practice following the new practice change. It is assumed that it has been tightened in. This is not difficult to document. Where does the two-year rule come from?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2612	This should not be a permanent solution. It's care pay that in today's system is a common care pay, which should help if you have a disabled child. Now I'm not saying that this is the best arrangement. It is clear that care pay is paid differently, as has been clarified in the discussion here – it is paid differently depending on the municipality in which you live. There are arguments for a uniform, better care system, but there has been no change in legislation that has tightened up this system. Some have been deprived of this benefit because it is not a lasting benefit. It's never been.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2617	Let me first quote what the Norwegian Medical Association magazine says. 14 for 2012. It's Trond H. Disease, a departmental supervisor and professor who writes the following: ‘After years’ amendments to the regulations and circulars have resulted in significant restrictions on interpretation’. Does the Council of State still think that there has not been any sort of tightening, and does the professor, who is working on this to daily, take it wrong? That's the first question. The second question is: Why does the Council of State think that parents of children are born with, for example, children. serious brain disease, should not have the opportunity to receive care allowance, to provide care for their children, rather than for their children to go to institutions? What is the advantage of such an institution idea, rather than the family being able to show it to their children instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2629	Yes, even a professor might be wrong. There has been no change in regulations from the Ministry with a desire to tighten up the scheme. What is the case is that the level of proceedings has been moved up to the state level, as I have explained earlier. It has ensured that, as the representative was inside his post and emphasised strongly, you should know that no matter where you live in the country, you should have the same rights. The second question is whether we should extend the care allowance scheme. That's the strong argument for it. There are many who argue well for it. We will look at this in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare. We will return to Stortinget regarding how we follow up this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2636	I am not satisfied with the answer, but I thank you for the answer. There is no doubt that the current government made changes as early as 2006. It's just looking up and going back. It is possible that the Council of State does not have – and I do not expect – an overview of it in the Chair today, but that is the case now. We've been waiting a long time for the follow-up to the Kaasa Committee. It has now taken two years and eight months. Soon it will be three years. Many parents with very seriously ill children are waiting to have a new code in place and a review. When does the State Council expect to present a follow-up case on the Kaasa Committee for the Storting? Do we get it before the 2013 elections, or does it have to be a government change before we get that case on the table to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2643	During the spring, the Ministry of Health and Welfare will give feedback to the Stortingen on parts of the Kaasa Committee's investigation, where both the Hagen Committee's investigation and the Kaasa Committee's investigation are seen in the context, but there will not be an overall review of all the proposals of the Kaasa Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2648	Having regard to the fact that these matters are as challenging as they are, having regard to the fact that the Right has therefore committed itself to the proposals, and having regard to the fact that one can agree with the Council of State that the Department will have the time it needs, I must allow myself to ask, too, because I am also not satisfied with the term ‘in an appropriate way’. I also do not think that the answer given to the representative Eriksson was comprehensive. Will the Council of State ensure that this comes to spring — the full review? The second question is: Will the Council of State be able to come back — immediately to the Grand Council — with a change in guidelines for occasional and irregular visits to the kindergarten and that the care allowance is not graduated further?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2655	The answer is no, I can't promise. As I said in my previous post, the Ministry of Health and Health wants to give a preliminary feedback on parts of the Kaasa Committee's position on spring, but there will not be a complete review of all of the selection's proposals in this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2661	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2666	This is an important matter and an area where you need a greater political focus. The government has reduced a selection to determine the degree and type of family with extensive care tasks to receive financial compensation. The Kaasa selection report is: When true, it is said about care of relatives – from invisible to valued and included. It's a pretty upcoming title. The Kaasa Committee has proposed three new grapples. They will grade the allowance scheme from 20 to 50 pst. to parents with children under 18 who have severe, permanent suffering. They will have new and strengthened municipal welfare benefits at national level as a substitute for current aid and care pay, and they will have statutory family benefits in the municipalities with measures that value and enhance the quality of services. The Hagen Committee also mentions the need for a new policy of repatriation in Norway. Responsibilities must be valued and respected and be an integral part of the provision of public assistance. The Hagen selection also talks about the right of third parties to be able to download and to be trained. Two of the main challenges facing the future are likely to be labour shortages as well as voluntary care providers. The ratio must therefore be such that it is possible to combine both. The truth is, society wouldn't go around without the voluntary and mainly family-based care. About 100,000 annual works are currently carried out by relatives. It is decisive both for well-being and for value creation. No one wants a society without this basic care based on family structure and social relationships. The Hagen selection is clear that it is important that the public professionalised care service does not marginalise the contribution of relatives, but rather plays with the informal care anchored in family and community. I am afraid – and I feel – that today we are just doing it, that we are marginalising the contribution of relatives. I agree that it will be difficult to address concrete changes in the care scheme today, and that we must await the case that will follow up proposals for a new care scheme and the Kaasa selection, but this is urgent. I record that there has not been a rule change, but the point is that those out there experience it as more difficult to get care money today than it was before. If the child has a lasting suffering today, there are not good enough financial arrangements. It is also in a way an artificial distinction between permanent and non-permanent illness when we talk about seriously ill children and relatives who then want to contribute to care. We need to see the change of care allowance, care allowance and support in a context, and I want to help us get it in place as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2689	I am absolutely convinced that the Council of State, which is itself a mother, has a genuine commitment to the weak children, let there be no doubt about it. I am convinced – regardless of the political party – that we want to provide the best possible care for those who have difficulties in our society. But at the same time, I have problems understanding the argument and the lack of follow-up and the attention this problem has received from the government. I can briefly tell you that I visited a three-year-old girl with severe brain cancer. She had ten months left – estimated by the doctors – to live, but she has good days in between. She has been granted the allowance for the period, but she is not allowed to go to kindergarten, then she will lose her allowance. As the little girl said to me, "Why can't I play with my friends in the kindergarten when I'm well?" I think as a politician it was hard to answer such a question. I believe that as politicians we should take over these enquiries and try to make the changes that can be made. If we were in Norway – last year we went with 400 billion. kr in profit – cannot afford to give this group this well-being, I wonder if we have a poor welfare society. I absolutely believe that we can afford that. Then I want to say, without having to debate or argue further – all because it is perceived – whether there have been changes or not, that the professor to whom I referred is going to be one of the country's leading professors in this field, and who has worked most on the themes and issues. So I think he has a fairly good overview of this subject area. I also want to record – when the Council of State refers to numbers – because I am a little unsure whether I heard errors, or if the Council of State said it was wrong: she said that if you base the proposals of the Advance Party on changes, it would cost 9 billion. kr more. The letter of reply from the Council of State states that the lowest estimate will amount to between 180 and 520 million. kr. The highest estimate will be between 1,6 and 4,5 billion. kr. But in the highest estimate, a calculation has been made based on a change in the care system that we do not propose. There is little doubt that these costs will not be as large, most likely there will be some hundred million. It is the advice of the Norwegian welfare state – at least in the opinion of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2702	I take the word because I feel that my post was considered a contrast to caring about these families and these children. I think that is completely wrong. Having an understanding that these families live in a community and in a family — in a small family or a large family — where the sum of worries and the sum of sand and stone in the shoe has a meaning for how they manage to live where they live with their children is important. The representative Toppe addressed this by marginalising the care of the dependants. I think that's important. I've been working at an institution for serious people with disabilities. They were adults. They had no life when they were at home as a child. At that time they were moved to the institution when they were quite small. The welfare state has given such families the opportunity to have their children at home, and that's very, very good. Those I worked with were isolated, they were often lonely, and in some cases they were abandoned by their families. Fortunately, we're not there today. The reason why we're not there today is that we've been focusing on good welfare schemes and emphasising that it's possible for families to care for their children, which is – as many people have pointed out here – one of the most important parents can do and contribute. That's why I think it's also a point how we design our welfare state, and that we're discussing how we're going to spend the community's money. I don't think we can drag this single thing out of an overall understanding of how the welfare state works. I believe it is important that we can also discuss the whole welfare society we live in in in such difficult matters. That is why I stressed in my post that it is incredibly important to have good contact with relatives. I believe that having contact with families – how they experience their situation, and how they actually want things to be organized for them – is one of the most important things to do. I then referred to what the hospital sector has as its big task now: to think about safety and quality. For me, there are not two words that are detached from care, care and mercy. That is exactly what those concepts are supposed to ensure, and that is what our welfare state is going to contribute to putting the framework around.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2715	I would like to stress that the People's Security Act regulates these matters. If there have been any changes to the law, the government must, if appropriate, have promoted that proposal for the Storting. We haven't. It's not the rules that govern the care money. There have been no changes in this area in the regulations that indicate that the government has wanted a change, but we have got a more holistic practice. In some areas, we can make changes independent of law and regulation. With regard to the specific example of a child who was part of the kindergarten and SFO during illness and where the mother lost her right to care, I have contacted the Director of Labour and Welfare because I want new guidelines to be developed in this area. It's a matter of making it completely independent of law and regulation, and that's why I've done this. So to the question of the calculation, yes, if the highest estimate goes on, this could be a cost increase of up to 9 billion. kr. If you look at parts of what is set up by the Cheeses Committee, it may cost a lot less, and there are calculations provided by the Cheeses Committee. However, this is the proposal made by the Progress Party – that there should be automatic care allowance granted by a medical specialist, and that it should be sustainable – may have significant consequences up to a maximum of 9 billion. kr. But here the estimates are very uncertain as to how many will choose this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2724	It is rather sad that we stand here and discuss what has happened and not happened. We have had a big debate earlier on welfare money. That's when Bjurstrøm was the State Council. What I remember at least is that in 2003, we also had a big debate here in the Grand Duchy. At the time, a child with severe head injuries was involved, and the Stortinget concluded that these should be correct on the care allowance. Then we had a new debate when Nav started what I call tightening up, but the council calls it a more holistic practice. I believe to remember that Bjurstrom in that debate called it a new interpretation of the legislation. It's quite right that there has not been any change in the law, but at least it's a new interpretation. State Council Bjurstrøm, I remember, even went so far as to say that there were an incredible number of families who had received care allowance, but now that one had gone through it legally, one had found that they had really not had a claim to it. But they had it. What we're really asking for is to get back what you had in the past. That's really what I've been dealing with, until we come to better and more holistic solutions. I sincerely hope that they will not be worse than what they had before the Stoltenberg government took power.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2733	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2748	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2757	I have to admit that Stortinget is dealing with this representative proposal a little overtime. The representatives of Vigdis Giltun, Robert Eriksson, Laila Marie Reiertsen and Bente Thorsen have proposed that the Stortinget should ask the government to submit proposals for a stepping-up plan for work and education for the disabled by February 2013. The proposal is now time-adjusted to the submission of the State budget for 2014. But it doesn't matter much. In fact, within that time, I believe that the government will have presented its announced news of living conditions and measures for people with disabilities. In this context, the living and working conditions of those with disabilities will be assessed in the context. I also assume that the government's follow-up to the Brofoss committee will be available within that time. There is a broad consensus on the need to strengthen efforts for those with developmental disabilities. Work and education are essential for the well-being of all people, including people with developmental disabilities. However, participation of those with disabilities in the labour market depends on work organised, most often on a lasting basis. I am therefore pleased that, year after year, we have increased the number of VTA sites both in the growth companies and in ordinary working life. In the last ten years, around 2000 new VTA sites have been created, roughly equally distributed among growth enterprises and ordinary working lives. This has benefited not only those with developmental disabilities but also other workers in need of permanent job placements. In my opinion, it has contributed to greater diversity and more varied job offers in enterprises, and as I said, there has been a broad consensus on this. But the Progress Party would not be the Progress Party if the party had had the same reality as the other parties in this regard. I can see that the Progress Party wants to make the premise for a coming big message, but in its criticism of all governments after the HVPU reform in the mid-1980s, the party falls into a description of misery that I take a distance from, and in which I suppose only they recognize themselves. All those who in their time contributed to the liquidation of the central institutions, and who have later experienced the improvement in the living conditions of those with developmental disabilities, see that much has been done, and that the world is not going to recognise from then on. This is due not least to the efforts of municipalities and growth companies to create good housing, employment and activity opportunities for those with disabilities. This, of course, does not mean that we can borrow back in the assurance that the job is done. Still, there is a great need for sheltered jobs, but we do not know exactly how much the need is. A Joint Committee therefore underlines the need for a more detailed analysis of the need for VTA sites. However, the consensus does not extend beyond that, nor among the opposition parties. Well, they agree to require a stepping-up plan for education and work for the less developed – it is to a large extent to open doors – but there it also stops. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party go relatively far and detailed into the description of a desired escalation plan. When the Right does not follow the path, I assume that this is due to the fact that the measures launched also have a cost side. The others allow us to wait until the government has done the job they have promised to do. We look forward to the announced big-time announcement and to the follow-up to the Brofoss committee on the living conditions of the developing population.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2770	I have to say that I am a little surprised at the sting of the Workers' Party representative's posts. This is an issue that should certainly be on the agenda many years ago. In fact, 21 years have passed since the HVPU reform was launched, without being able to secure people with a developmental disability the right to work or education. Work for all who can work is important for the individual. In the case of persons with developmental disabilities, it is imperative that the public should provide for the necessary organisation. The general picture drawn by Norwegian and international research is that people with disabilities generally have difficulties in getting a job in the ordinary labour market, and those with developmental disabilities are the groups with the most difficulties in doing so. However, the picture is not quite clear, and there are good examples of enterprises such as the Netherlands, Germany and the United Kingdom. fast-food chains and retail chains in Denmark and Sweden are linked to developmentally impaired staff. We also see examples of this in Norway. Better follow-up and awareness-raising among Norwegian employers could lead to a change in attitude and thus increase participation of the developmentally handicapped in the ordinary labour market. In the research report «Integrated objectives or broken visions?» by senior researcher Sylvia Söderström and Professor Jan Tøssebro at NTNU, it appears that the proportion of people with developmental disabilities in the measure Permanently organised work was 30 p.m. in 2001, while in 2010 it had sunk to 13 p.m. by employees. If there is something the Workers' Party is satisfied with, the Advance Party cannot agree to that. There is no strengthening of the ability of those with disabilities to have a job. Daycare is not a satisfactory solution, and it is quite frightening how many people with developmental disabilities go directly from school to stay at home. They wonder why they've gone to school for 13-14 years if they're not going to be able to get anything to do. VTA companies have had and will continue to have an important role as permanent jobs for those who cannot work in the ordinary enterprises, but also as a link between ordinary employers and employees with a developmental disability. Employees of the country’s VTA companies have both top-notch competence and good and long tradition of guiding and facilitating the proper functioning of those with developmental disabilities in the workplace. The potential for development is therefore high for VTA companies to act as development platforms with a clear objective of maximising the normal labour market. The Progress Party believes that one of the main factors in facilitating transition from school to work is the use of individual plans. We are aware that the Ministry of Knowledge recently consulted on the proposal for the provision of individual levels in the Training Act, and expect that the consultation recordings that further strengthen legislation will be followed. We also believe it is necessary to improve understanding of what the plans are to contain and how they are to be implemented. Persons with developmental disabilities must be given equal opportunities, in line with others, for training that reflects their interests and facilities. Therefore, more attention should be paid to appropriate, qualified training that strengthens students’ own facilities and interests, in view of job opportunities. In the proposal, we have raised many important points to improve the transition from school to work. We hope that the government will take it with them when they now prepare an overall plan. We also believe that the teacher’s candidate system, which contributes to providing students with vocational competence through practical work, should be strengthened, and see that there may be problems with Nav funding the actions. The Progress Party also sees that people with disabilities and developmental disabilities will enjoy working in companies where they are co-owners themselves. I want to refer there to the Erlandsen pastoral in Drammen, which opened in August 2012 – I visited them on the opening day – where developmentally disabled people have started their own business where they are joint owners. It is now apparent that there are no measures and aid schemes that help to start own enterprises by those with disabilities. I hope that the government will also take it with them. There is a cross-political consensus that it is important that the right to work is respected by those with disabilities, but the Progress Party cannot see that the government's work strategy for people with disabilities is adequately addressed. Most have experienced being at a workplace where people with developmental disabilities show great joy and pride in their work. Our goal is to give everyone the right to work if they can and will, and most people can and will. I take up the proposal of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party and report that we will vote in a subsidiary way for the Right's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2793	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2796	First, I would like to commend the proposers for bringing up a very important topic for debate. Unfortunately, it is very rare that we in this room have the opportunity to talk about mentally retarded people and their opportunities. One of the reasons why we don't talk about it so often, is maybe, you can hope that it's a field where, fortunately, there's little political disagreement after all. For a civilised society, it may be measured first and foremost by how to treat those who are at least able to care for their own interests – those who are not socially able to raise money, but who are nevertheless so infinitely valuable. I think everyone in this room will agree on that, and I am pleased about that. We have an obligation to facilitate the best possible use and development of mental retardants in the same way as anyone else. For this group has a lot to contribute. No, it's not like everyone can have a regular job, but it's not like everyone can either. Like everyone else, mental retardation comes in many forms. With proper education and proper follow-up, many people with developmental disabilities have much to offer. For the vast majority, both mentally retarded and all of us, a life of meaningful activity both at work and at home is much better than a life of passivity. I will therefore, as others have done before me here, praise the many growth businesses we have in Norway. Durable work is an important offer that provides meaningful work to people who otherwise have little opportunity to enter the labour market under normal pay or working conditions. Therefore, the right is pleased that the number of VTA slots has increased in recent years and supports the separation of VTA into a separate budget line from the year’s budget. It will help to improve the security and predictability of the industry and those working in it. I am also pleased that we have put in place the requirement for a police record in this industry. We owe that protection to give those people that this is about. In very many ways, the HVPU reform was now well over 20 years ago a success. Developmentally disabled people were integrated into society in a completely different way than before, and I think that was good, both for them and not least for society for the rest. Still, there's still a piece left. There is still a good deal between intention and practice in a good number of areas. I therefore agree with the proposers when they call for a stepping-up plan in this field. It also requires the right. I am pleased that the government has signalled in connection with the handling of this matter that they are working with a big message in the field, but I have to say that we are now very impatient in this case as well. It's becoming quite a lot of things that we're waiting for very much. I look forward to receiving this big message in the house as soon as possible and having it processed. But a big message is one thing, concrete action must also be taken. We in the Right will therefore – like our friends on the non-socialist side – propose a proposal asking the government to present a stepping-up plan aimed at ensuring the better right of people with development to work and education. We ask that this plan be promoted in the context of the presentation of the State budget for 2014 and that the necessary funds should therefore be included. I distance myself from what Mr Gullvåg said here a little ago, that when the Right does not support the proposals, I assume – as he said – that it is because the proposals have a cost side. Think about it! The others – I refer to the representative – will wait for the government to present the Brofoss Committee's position. That's why we don't want to give this series details, but are on a different level when we present this. The details – but not in any way the intention – separate our proposal from the proposal of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. It is simply due to the fact that in such a stepping-up plan one has to see the field in its entirety. We believe that it is not right to add detailed guidance from Stortinget to a case. I address the Right-wing proposal in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2815	The representative of Sylvi Graham has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2818	Responsibilities reform shattered the principle of equality and a natural right to be part of community, school and work life — including for people with developmental disabilities. It's been a while since the reform came. Experience has shown that, unfortunately, some measures in some municipalities have become more and more special care. That is why it is necessary for the government to provide a comprehensive review of this policy. An information and development programme has also been sent to municipalities to intensify existing legal provisions. It's necessary. In the municipal sector, there is no reason to wait for a new big message to be made before doing what you already have commitments to. Work is important. The growing companies created a book a few years ago called ‘Work joys’. I think that's very correctly described, because in a few places, I meet as many people as in the growing companies – and perhaps especially in people with developmental disabilities, who contribute incredibly good labour and are very good at producing both different services and different goods. They also have a very great job satisfaction. Some of us have a slogan that says "work to everyone". Then there must be work for everyone. Among other things, permanent work is an important part of that policy. I have been doing this field of work in Stortinget for a very long time. There are a lot of governments that haven't exactly been up front in this field. The size has been largely unanimous – overall – that permanent work is an important part of the state’s policy, and that this will be strengthened. We have. It's important -- we'll keep doing that -- because it's necessary. But there's also a number of other things that need to be done. In Report. St. 18 for 2010–2011 Learning and sharing in the field of education presented a initiative called ‘We are breaking borders’. It is a very important initiative, which is about everyone having the opportunity to receive education at high school. There are different schemes here, including: the apprenticeship system, which is a system for those who may not initially be able to obtain a diploma, but who have very many good skills and skills. And mastering can be taught. Section 3-1 of the Training Act entitles all those who have completed primary school to secondary education during the period laid down by the curriculum. This right includes not only pupils and apprentices but also those in the apprenticeship system. So we're obliged to give these students adapted training too. The apprenticeship system has worked very well for many of those who have used it. Many of those in the apprenticeship system now cooperate with the growth companies. Among other things, Østfold County Council has concluded a contract — and also has a training office — where they provide students with developmental disabilities or other types of massive learning difficulties with the apprenticeship system. It's incredibly important that we can also strengthen our commitment to this. This has to be followed up quite early — because you know very early who these students are — and you have to run for it in collaboration with, among others. enterprises that can assist in the training of these students. Some of those who work on this say that some of the challenge here is to disseminate information to young people that this possibility exists. Here I am absolutely sure that it can be done quite a lot. I am also quite sure that if more students get this training, which they can get through, among other things. these enterprises will develop skills and skills that are useful both in these enterprises and in ordinary working life in the future. One of the major challenges ahead is to create more labour – more people are needed to work. I am absolutely convinced that very many people with a developmental disability have the opportunity to work more, to contribute positively to the working life in many areas, if we provide them with training at a pace, with methods and in ways that enable them to develop their entire potential, as everyone else should.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2837	A stepping-up plan for adapted education and work for people with developmental disabilities is at the heart of red-green government work to improve the welfare society. I want to start there and underline it. There have been improvements – as the representative Karin Andersen also pointed out – but we have not achieved enough in this area. Based on my experience from government conferences, I know that the group of people we're talking about here is not the group that's most advanced in improving its case. Unfortunately, that's how many of the priorities I've been up to are working. Durable work – mainly in the sheltered sector – is quite seaworthy for the Centre Party, but it is also said that we need to be able to make greater use of ordinary working life. In the ordinary working life, for those with a developmental disability, there is a scheme called the «Temporary wage subsidy». As an employer, I have experience with this scheme. I would like to say that if an employer acts in such a way that a topic is addressed to the individual in his/her work, he/she gets one of the greatest results in his/her life. One sees how a human being grows, and one sees how a human being can do tasks that maybe just a year earlier were viewed as reasonably incredible that one would have power. So there's a lot of possibilities. The current red-green government has ensured that the number of VTA jobs has increased steadily, but – as many have experienced – there are many more people who meet the conditions for permanent work. What happened in the state budget for the current year, that VTA jobs in the protected sector were given their own post — and that there were several such places — has given greater predictability. I hope this is an entry that the Council of State will focus on, and ensure that it is developed so that one can take away some of the many who want to work. There is talk of an overall assessment of the situation of those with reduced development — it is important. It's something that should be a priority, and I think what's going on is starting with what's called individual plans for the individual developmentally handicapped maybe two years before primary and secondary school is finished, should be a central task. One knows who this is, one knows what is the evolution. It's pretty strong for me to experience parents who come to me and say, "Per, here it's not clear what's going on when my girl goes out of school." It can't be like that. It is so predictable that you should have it clear. If the state has not done enough, each municipality has a separate responsibility – the municipalities are also involved in Nav – and can ensure that there is a follow-up at that point. Such a scheme — in good time before leaving primary or secondary school — could provide predictability, could provide reinvigoration of the situation for those in question, and could provide security for those in need of work, and for those parents who can then lower their shoulders and be sure that they are in the best hands here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2852	The issue we have to deal with today is very important to ensure an inclusive and diverse society. Good conditions for everyone help us to achieve the goal of including everyone. We can't talk about inclusion and tolerance without all of us having people in mind when we're going to develop our society. The Christian People's Party tends to say that a society that is good for the children is a society that is good for everyone, and equally right is that a society that is good for those with a mental retardation is a society that is good for everyone. A community that helps everyone to participate and contribute to the use of their abilities and facilities is a good society to live in. We as politicians have a responsibility to create the opportunities to ensure this for each individual. The Christian People's Party has been at the forefront for a long time to ensure good arrangements for people with a mental retardation, especially with regard to the right to housing and work, precisely because these are fundamental rights to ensure individual freedom, independence and dignity. Inclusion and diversity must be more than infinite words. We therefore need to strengthen our response to people with mental retardation. It is gratifying that the government will come back to the Storting with a big message about living conditions and measures for people with developmental disabilities, but time is running out. I don't know if we have time to wait for it, because it's already well over a year since the Stortinge decided this. It was in the Health Committee that the proposal came, and it was adopted here in this Chamber on 6 December 2011. I think the proposals put on the table today would give a huge boost to vulnerable people. It is therefore sad that the position will not be included in what is proposed. Inclusion in working life is important for the individual, because the workplace gives the individual a community, a place you belong to, and a place where you are allowed to contribute and do something for others. It is also profitable from a socio-economic perspective. VTA and VTO sites are very important instruments to ensure that people with mental retardation receive an offer where they can use their capabilities and facilities. The growing companies do a very good job in this way. In order to ensure that people with mental retardation are given the opportunity to do so, it is important to ensure that they receive adapted education and thus a basic competence that is essential for the functioning of society. In order to ensure that the transition from school to work is carried out in a good way, we believe that a mentoring system should be introduced, which is also one of the proposals today. In order to provide an appropriate and individually adapted offer to the individual, it is also important that the ability to work is assessed. We all have different properties and assumptions. I believe that today's proposal would meet these challenges. It is therefore very sad that the government parties vote against. As I said, we do not know when the government will come back to Stortinget with a complete message. The Christian People's Party will vote subsidiaryly – like the Progress Party – on the Right's proposal if our proposal against presumption falls.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2867	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2871	Work and education are important for people with a developmental disability because it gives a meaningful life, it gives structure in everyday life, and it gives a positive self-esteem. The intention of the responsibilities reform was better and more normalised living conditions for people with developmental disabilities. This also included an objective of maximising the integration of people with disabilities into ordinary school, ordinary work and ordinary labour market measures. Therefore, today’s children grow up with a completely different relationship to those with developmental disabilities than was the case in the past. We've seen in many schools that including people with developmental disabilities also makes school better to see the individual differences among the other children. It creates a more positive society. There are few people with developmental disabilities in ordinary work, but many participate either in municipal day centres or in permanent work. A minority participate in measures to integrate the disabled. Most people with a developmental disability have a disability pension as the main source of income. Proposals seek a stepping-up plan for adapted training and work for people with a developmental disability. I agree with the representatives on the importance of strengthening the instruments in the field of employment, education and welfare of this target group. Work-oriented measures in the ordinary and sheltered sectors are also covered. At the same time, I would like to stress that there has been a lot of positive happening in recent years. The number of places and not least the content of permanent work has changed significantly since the first work collaborations were established in the 1970s. From being simple tasks, production is now characterised by a wide range of products that are often produced with advanced equipment. A variety of services are offered, such as: operating cafes, selling school food and participating in services in other enterprises. In recent years, considerable efforts have also been made to ensure better competence and quality of action, including through: approval schemes whereby the procedures and requirements of the establishments are reviewed and improved. In order to enhance safety, police certification is also required for employees. In examining the State budget for 2013, the Stortinget decided to support the government’s proposal that the labour market measure should be subject to permanent organisation of work at its own post. In addition, the number of places is increased slightly. With regard to the need for adapted training, the government has already planned and implemented several measures that will target, both directly and indirectly, students with developmental disabilities. In Report. St. 18 for 2010–2011, Learning and Community, which was presented in 2011, the government mentions a strategy for early response and good learning environments for children, young people and adults with special needs. The government is now working on a consultation note where we will look at the living conditions of the developing population in the light of the intentions of the reform of responsibility and the other living conditions. A central dimension is access to education and work. The consultation note and opinions will form the basis for the work on a major communication on the living conditions of those with disabilities. Here the government will identify challenges and refer to further work to improve the living conditions of people with disabilities. Measures to strengthen access to relevant and organised education and work will be assessed. In particular, the transition from education to work is an important phase requiring very special attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2884	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2887	As Lundtigen said, one of our proposals is an individual plan, which is to start in good time before a student leaves school. Each year, it is known how many mentally retarded students will need an organized job. Will the government make sure that it becomes a right for these students to go into working life, as they are totally dependent on the public to enter the labour market? They also depend entirely on the existence of resources at Nav that can facilitate a job, whether it is a permanent job or there are other types that have been mentioned in the debate. Will the government ensure that this becomes a right, or is it still going to happen if the developmentally disabled get into work after school?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2894	The important thing is to increase the number of locations in sheltered establishments, and that number has increased significantly in recent years — from 3007 places in 2001 to 8000 in 2012 — and there is also a partial increase in the budget for the current year. So to the question of new rights: this is a question that is possibly discussed in a big message, and I cannot prejudge the treatment of it here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2901	In June 2011, NTNU presented a report that told what the stand was like in respect of the share of the developmentally impaired in VTA sites. At that time, Minister of Labour Hanne Bjurstrøm was evidently somewhat surprised by the situation when she spoke to the NRK: ‘I want more people with developmental disabilities at work, so I’m a little surprised by the study. Because, in the case of the labour market measure, permanent work, this is a scheme which has increased in recent years. But I take this very seriously and we will start a study later this year on the need for such jobs." This said Hanne Bjurstrøm, who did not rule out that it was an undercover. My question to the Council of State is: Is that study carried out, and is it known by the current date how many spaces are missing and whether there is a sub-coverage?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2914	In any case, there has been a review of the figures following this NTNU report, and it shows a relatively stable proportion of those with disabilities in the labour market in recent years. And it shows that there has not been a decline, as this NTNU study shows. We have an increased number of spaces for this group, but there's a need for multiple spaces. We've increased the number, but there may be a need for further reinforcements.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2921	We agree with this House that time is overdue – in the previous case for the Kaasa Committee report and now for the Brofoss Committee report. We're used to hearing that the government's representatives tend to be pretty good at drawing out the positive that's happened within an area. Therefore, there was reason to sharpen your ears when Lundtigen had the word and talked about this matter being in the middle of the heart of the red-green area. "In this area we haven't reached far enough," he said. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: What are the conditions in the living conditions of those with disabilities that the Council of State believes represent what we have not achieved far enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2928	It is a discussion that is both about actions in the field of education and in the field of work, but it is also about changes in attitudes and the organisation of more in the ordinary working life. So it's about a wide range of areas, and I think we've come a little way with the responsibilities reform. People with developmental disabilities are more involved in our society than they were in the past, but there's still a piece left. It's about politics, but it's also about how we view our fellow human beings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2933	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It's interesting to hear that value too. I have to ask the same question once again, referring to the time being overmature, and the urgency of these people that we are talking about here. When will the Brofoss report be dealt with in Stortinget? During 2013, the Council of State stated in the letter of reply to the Committee. Do we now want it to be treated before the summer vacation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2938	Yes, I have answered this a number of times, and I stand by my answers, that we will follow up on an ongoing basis. There are parts of this that will be submitted to Stortinget during this year, but what comes at what time, the Stortinget can expect them to receive an ongoing review.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2943	To the last answer from the Council of State: does this mean that we do not actually get a complete follow-up and review of the NOU, that is, the Brofoss Committee, at all in the Storting, but just piece by piece and division? That was one question. The second is that there are too many mentally retarded people who get out of work, and when the government proposes new places every year, do you have any insight into how many years it will take before you have a coverage of interventions for all mentally retarded people? And then, of course, I think about those who've finished school, and you have an overview of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2949	I can't give the representative a clear figure on this right now, but I encourage the representative to ask a written question, so at a detailed level, you can get a more numerical review of this question. So to the question of Brofoss, the Brofoss committee is about a number of things. It's about method, about non-governmental organisations, and it's about ways of acquiring different places. So what's important to me is to follow up parts of the Brofoss range continuously, and we'll do that in relation to the Storting. But it is not that if you make a comprehensive, comprehensive big message, you get a faster review of the case. I think there are some points from Brofoss that we can solve pretty early, and then there are some things that we need some more time on. This includes: about how we acquire some of these places.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2956	That's the line change. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2961	This is a long-term debate in many ways. At the same time, however, there is a debate that we may have – in quotation marks – too often, because everyone has indicated that we are impatient that we have not reached enough in this area. That means we have to be very focused on the implementation. It is very important that we now manage to keep a good grip on this matter, and actually get implemented. So that's why I'm thinking about a little bit of the debate: when it's attached to the protocol, it's not rejected. But it's just before we report a complete package for the whole area, and I think it's important to include it in this round. But what I want to record, what I want to say about, is that VTA is work. Some of us at this house are sometimes a little technical downside, and we're busy with a budget line or number and the framework area and at all – but the reason we moved this over to a separate post was to signal that this is work. There are no measures that fluctuate with the economic cycle of Norwegian society. This is a job. It must be treated differently from the other measures. We have to strengthen it, and we have to follow it up. Most of us, at least in the Labour and Social Committee, travel a lot around the country, and this is among the companies we visit often – the growth companies, the ASVO companies, and here we see that what is delivered is products. There are no «created» jobs. One of the areas that fascinated me the most when we now had a presentation of the company where the competence requirement was that ‘you can’t read and write, because you’re going to maculate sensitive documentation’. Then you can read it, and you're not fit for the job. It excludes quite a few, at least those who sit around in this hall, and quite a few others around the country. That means that there is a real job being done, there is a real need for Norwegian society. And then we might fund it -- I'll just say "maybe" -- in a different way than some other tasks in this country. But there really are some other jobs in the Norwegian community that are funded by the state, or by the state in combination with a municipality – or, or, or. There are no action areas, there are tasks that Norwegian society needs to deliver, and there are jobs that we need to strengthen and further develop. That's what we're going to deal with, and we haven't come up with that, because even we're talking about action spaces. I want to mention Eastfold as an example very briefly. This has been taken seriously here by creating training offices that are able to ensure that there is the right competence to get to the right places. There's something we want to look at more.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2972	I want to grasp a possible misunderstanding – or at least get facts to put on the table – because in the exchange of lines, the Council of State said that they have carried out a review of what this NTNU report points to, and that the proportion of people with developmental disabilities in working life was not weakened, but had been quite constant. I record that, in the case of the NTNU report, met goals or broken visions?, the one who has led the work with it, Professor and researcher Jan Tøssebro says: ‘The report notes that during the last ten years, the proportion of people with developmental disabilities in the measure has fallen substantially in the long term. [[VTA]] I'm a little insecure, because now we have from this pulpit in two consecutive cases referred to research reports, and to what professors who have led the research have concluded – but they are obviously wrong. Either it's the department or the council that has misunderstood my question, or it's probably that we have very poorly trained professors in this country, because all professors can't be wrong. I'm going to agree that sometimes some professors are wrong about some questions, but that they're going to do it in every single case, I think it's a little special. There is little doubt that the proportion of people with developmental disabilities in the labour market and in VTA sites has fallen. Here is the question of whether you want to strengthen it, to say that you need to have more in a job-oriented offer, or whether you want to accept an ever-increasing increase in day places and day centres. I am quite convinced – and it also shows the report presented two years ago at the Norwegian School of Commerce – that the use of VTA sites or labour-oriented measures rather than day-care centres is much more favourable and cheaper for the economy. The costs are much better socially distributed. It should then be obvious to reinforce what is best for both the individual and, not least, the most socially appropriate. That is why I hope that the government will present a stepping-up plan for the number of VTA sites and open up so that more people with development are able to enter those sites more quickly. I noticed that it was 18 months since the NTNU report was submitted, and that this was going to happen quickly. Nothing has happened so far, so I hope we don't have to wait 18 new months.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e2993	After this debate, I feel the reason to stress that there is a great deal of work being done around the country's municipalities to ensure that the living conditions of those with disabilities are getting better and better. I feel no urge to speak down the importance of the efforts being made around the municipality of Norway in this area. I rather think that the municipalities should be praised – for their efforts, and because they have taken the task in this area very seriously. I do not know if I have understood the representative Giltun correctly. But if she thought that we should more fully reserve the VTA measure for those with developmental disabilities, I would actually warn against it. We can agree that we need more places, but I was just visiting a company on Nøtterøy this week, and where you have 40 VTA places for employees with different assumptions and skills that together create a stimulating working environment. From this enterprise, the labour force is recruited to the normal working life, including those with developmental disabilities. However, I think we should realise that it is the growth companies that are able to meet the job needs of those with developmental disabilities. That's a big need. I'm sure the government is going to follow up this need in the years that are coming, as it's done to now. Therefore, it is so important that growing businesses are a natural part of local business. As our country is geographically equipped, these enterprises are very important jobs that help prevent exclusion and disability. They are actually necessary contributors in a local business. That is why, in my view, we should look at the use of instruments in different areas in order to create more such jobs. But there's one thing we're going to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3002	In this case, it is not important to stand and promote self-confidence and satisfaction over a situation that everyone knows is not as it should be. The HVPU reform provided some guidance on how developmentally disabled people should have it in their lives. They were going to have an owner-occupied home, they were going to have the right to regular school, and they were going to have the right to a job. That right has never been legalised, and it is not nearly fulfilled. It's a great development potential. I can mention the cooperatives. Many of them have very good finances, but they don't have the ability to create multiple places, because Nav won't pay. What was said to me last week was that it is not the responsibility of the municipality to pay, it is the responsibility of Nav to provide support. The municipality is responsible for the daily supply. It's a shared responsibility that's politically desirable, and there are also these users becoming throwballs in the system. In the case of people with developmental disabilities, they are a very special group, usually born with a disability, which means that they cannot seek ordinary work in the same way as everyone else. They depend entirely on public support to enter a job, whether it is a private job or there is some permanent work that the municipality has. That's what I also want rights to. When a student leaves school, it is known that there must be support schemes to help the person in work. If the person does not stay at home or ends up on a daily offer where nothing very productive happens. It is completely wrong to use funds to place young people on a daily offer instead of having them, after completing a school, go to work. It is this that needs to be improved by planning early, and looking at the abilities and interests of individuals, in order to guide the student towards getting as organized a job as possible. Then it doesn't help to say in this room that we have increased the number of spaces when the need is increasing and when more and more people sit at home and get nothing to do. Why should they complete a school run when they are placed at home for years afterwards, and at the same time know that there is a job in the municipality or somewhere else where they could be involved and contribute if only the public had come with funds. I wish it was automatic in that the funds followed these users so that they got straight to work when it was possible and desirable.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3013	I just feel the need to remind the representative Giltun that we are working on a big message to follow up the policy widely for people with developmental disabilities in all areas. It is necessary because there are many municipalities and many who have been responsible for this, which have fallen back to old sins, for example. in the case of housing and training. But in the workplace, positive decisions have been made in recent years. There's no disagreement about, as I've experienced in this room, that you want people with developmental disabilities to get work. On the contrary, we have now increased the number of seats in this budget and ensured that this money, as the representative Brandvik said in his statement, is earmarked for work and not mixed into the action pot. It's been incredibly important. The size has also asked for an overview of who needs such places, but it has been difficult to get good figures on it until now. It was in the state budget, as we were presented in the autumn, which was dealt with a while ago. But it is said that you have to go further with it, because there has not been any registration in the municipalities of who needs such a job, nor has it been registered in Nav. So I would also like to stress that we don't have to think about saying that some of these kids aren't going to school because you're not quite sure what kind of work they're going to get. No, these students should have as good training as everyone else and have their abilities maximised. Then it's our job to ensure that several of them get work, both in ordinary business and in several VTA companies. It has been shown that the methodology used in some of these growing businesses is very suitable for many other people as well, who in different phases of life and in different situations may benefit from the same training methodology or work methodology. That means we have to expand it instead of making it a battleground between people with developmental disabilities and people with other types of problems. Then we have to make sure that there are enough of these offers, and not that this should be for one or the other group. No, on the contrary, this is something we've said should be for everyone. Developmentally disabled persons shall not be in a booth separately, where only those who are engaged in this work. They must be in jobs where there are many other different people. That's good, that's good! And then we get to fight that there'll be more places and there'll be enough spaces for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3022	Vigdis Giltun has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3025	I think Karin Andersen must have misunderstood. It is clear in the matter that there are different types of work that we want those with developmental disabilities to have. Now, as I said, it is nearly 21 years since the HVPU reform came into force. Then a big message is announced that it will take more than two years to make. What is more committed to a new wholesale message than to the HVPU reform? There are no promises to impose any statutory rights. I have to say that I am directly concerned when Karin Andersen says that developmentally disabled people should not be given greater security to get into work than others. They're a group that's a pretty predictable size, and it's completely possible to know the number. What's the problem for them is that they're being equated with others. I have to say, I actually get a little worried after this debate that the government is so little willing to grant developmentally disabled people the right to adapted education and work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3032	Karin Andersen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3036	As far as I know, it is a unanimous big deal that has asked for this big message. It is clear that a review of the whole policy is important. This is about a lot of different phases of life for people with developmental disabilities. There's a lot that needs to be in place for it to be an equal life. That's why I find it sad that Giltun's representative is speaking down the big message that a unanimous big deal has asked, and that she is not willing to see that we are now in a good race where we are strengthening this area and where everyone says that we want to strengthen it. That's what we work for. There is no disagreement between the parties in the Storting that we want to strengthen it, but we want to strengthen it both in terms of training and schooling, work and also in terms of housing, because it is very important that people with developmental disabilities can be allowed to live where they want to and determine the seas of their lives, as we do. It's also going to be an important part of the big message that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3043	I would like to remind Mr Giltun that an overall committee, including the Progress Party, underlines the need for a detailed analysis of the need for VTA sites. If it is that the representative Giltun knows the answer to that question, I understand little of her posts here today. It is now the case that the AFI survey carried out does not provide a clear response to the need. Here, Nav, municipalities and action organisers have different estimates of the need for VTA sites. Finally, I feel compelled to stress that again we have seen that the opposition files further on the mantra too little and too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3050	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3064	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose to give rise to the exchange of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Mr Knutsen, who has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur for the matter, Mr Orlund, who was an alternate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3075	The draft representative we are here to debate, on a new coal strategy, addresses issues that this government has had on the agenda over almost two major periods and that have been followed up by active policies and concrete actions. One of the truly far-reaching health reforms in recent times is the Interaction Reform. It is a policy reform that has put public health, not least, on the top political agenda, where prevention and health promotion are at the centre of attention. The interaction reform has highlighted the major public diseases of the chronic non-infectious diseases category, which can be largely prevented by lifestyle changes such as smoking, reduced consumption of sugar and fat, more moderate alcohol consumption and by being more physically active. Cols is one of the most serious diseases that has proven smoking as its main cause. Both coal and other chronic lung diseases affect a large group of people. The number of coal diseases in Norway is about. 370,000 and increases by 20,000 per year. At ca. 70 pst. of patients, tobacco smoking is a causal factor, while other cases are related to professional relationships — in or without combination with tobacco. It was to meet this reality that in 2006 the government launched the National Strategy for the COLS region 2006–2011 and established the National COLS Council as part of the strategy. This strategy has been a necessary and useful tool in the fight against the carbon epidemic of which we see the contours. The United Nations and the World Health Organisation also have direct attention to coal as a very serious disease. The government's carbon strategy includes, inter alia: the establishment of a national quality register for persons with coal — in operation from 2011 — and national guidelines and guidelines for the prevention, diagnosis and follow-up of coal have been published. In letters to the Health and Care Committee of 14 December 2012, the Council of State points out that the further efforts to prevent coal should be integrated into the cross-sectoral public health work covered by the Public Health Act and in the follow-up to the Cooperation Reform. In this context, it is emphasised that the Interaction Reform focuses precisely on better and more coordinated treatment and rehabilitation services. And more carbon atoms can get offers through e.g. Intermediary units, in the island assistance services provided by municipalities or in their own homes, e.g. by means of new medical technology. In 2011 it is granted 30 million. NOK for the treatment and rehabilitation of chroniclers in municipalities. In several places in the country, pilot projects are being carried out to test patients with carbon blacks at home. The equipment provides a two-way communication with sound and image between medical personnel and patients, and the device is intended to provide increased safety for patients by improving the overview of e.g.: cardiac and pulmonary function and by adjusting treatment measures. The goal is to improve the pathology and thus increase the patient’s ability to live at home. This measure will also be evaluated. The long-term primary prevention must aim at reducing the incidence of carbon. This should primarily be done by seeking to reduce tobacco smoking significantly and by actively combating harmful inhalation into the labour market. Early diagnosis of coal is important and allows for the earliest possible intervention through smoking cessation and lifestyle change. A very positive result of the carbon strategy is that the number of daily smokers in the population is falling, and that this is happening particularly among the youngest. I am pleased that this government has a great deal of attention to public health work through prevention and health promotion, and I look forward to the public health message coming in ours. I think it is right to see the work to reduce the major public diseases — including carbon — as an integral part of the broad public health strategy that we are now going to have, and not as specific measures that require specific, specific strategies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3090	First of all, I would like to thank the Right who has put this matter on the agenda. There are 370,000 people in Norway who have coal today, and the number is increasing by 20,000 for each year. The World Health Organization estimates that coal will be the third leading cause of death in the world by 2030. We know that there are 150 000 people in our country who have carbon without being aware of it. At the same time, we have been revealed that the knowledge of general practitioners on the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of carbon atoms is very poor. The Progress Party has gone through several budgetary processes to strengthen its knowledge of the disease and to increase the treatment and provision of this patient group — without getting any real impact on it. We have proposed measures to follow up and continue the coal strategy. Government parties are now completing the useful work done through the 2006–2011 coal strategy and setting down the National Coal Council. The Government is leaning back on the fact that the further investment in carbon buffers is to be carried out as part of the Cooperation Reform and Public Health work. It is, in my opinion, a sharp drop in the bet aimed at one of the fastest growing chroniclers here in the country. I think that is unacceptable. A notified new staging message that discusses the issues related to carbon separators will largely be like looking up open doors. Not many beautiful words are needed here, but practical and concrete actions are needed to increase knowledge and improve the availability of treatment for carbon sinks, and money and more specialist services are needed to help us overcome the underdiagnosis. We need to get more knowledge from general practitioners so that we can get early diagnosis, and this must be accompanied by a better rehabilitation offer. We also need an increased palliative offer for those affected by the disease. In parallel, it is necessary to focus on information, knowledge transfer, research and, inter alia, on: smoking weaning courses so that we can reduce the number affected by the disease. The Progress Party has repeatedly warned that chroniclers can be harmed as a result of the Cooperation Reform, and with the government's approach we fear that we can get right. Patients with chronic non-infectious diseases require a different approach and follow-up over time from what we see today. We know that carbon atoms are among the most frequent swing door spaces in the specialist health service with up to 40 pst. cleaning in a year. When the government now points out that the cooperation reform is to be the instrument for the carbon sinks, it almost seems that they believe that the financial incentives in municipal co-financing should push 429 municipalities to put in place a good, preventive and therapeutic offer for carbon sinks in a short time. It's utopia! I'm also sorry for the slightly debilitated approach to the carbon disease associated with tobacco use. Of course, it is true that a large number of those who have received coal, smoke, or smoked. And it's important to offer smoking weaning. But we should not forget that there are many other factors that can be contributing and triggering to the development of this pulmonary disease. Air quality both outdoors and indoors has a significant impact. Although we are gradually living in a more post-industrial society, there will still be many who are struggling with the aftermath of working in unhealthy jobs with poor air and exposure to dangerous gases or particles. It has not been long since we saw pictures from hospital buildings here in the country where we had lost the doors with duct tape to limit asbestos from entering the personnel's wardrobe. Research has also shown that diet and inactivity can be triggering factors for carbon, and often some are exposed to several of these factors at the same time and over time, increasing the risk of developing disease. I wish we could get the government parties on an offensive initiative to meet the challenges of coal, on a broad front through a new coal strategy. With this, I will be allowed to take up the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3107	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3110	Colza and other chronic lung diseases affect a large group of people, as the proposal shows. The government has set up a national strategy for the COLS area 2006–2011 and established the National Coal Council as part of the strategy. This strategy has been a necessary and useful tool in the fight against the increasing carbon epidemic. The National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease and the Professional Environment has stated that Norway needs to put in place a new carbon strategy, and has pointed out that there are major shortages in the supply of this patient group and that it is doing too little to deal with the suffering that this entails. That is also why the Right has proposed a new coal strategy, and we are pleased with the support of the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. It is good that governments and government parties see the challenges of coal and the need for better diagnosis, prevention, treatment and rehabilitation. Therefore, I am somewhat surprised that they are neither discussing nor justifying their resistance to putting in place a new carbon strategy – not least because they themselves have given so much recognition of the importance of the previous coal strategy, just as the representative Knutsen had. One of the last national coal councils assessed was the implementation of the coal strategy and its follow-up. Among the recommendations made by the Kolsrådet was that health authorities had to develop a new carbon strategy as a central document for policy-making, not least in relation to the cooperation reform. The intention of the cooperation reform underpins important elements of a strategy to improve the supply of coal disease, but it is in the concrete measures, follow-up and resources that supply can be improved, not in the objectives. Good treatment and, in particular, rehabilitation of coal disease are very important. This patient group needs better diagnostics and better organisation for mastering, treatment, rehabilitation and relief, including outside the health field. Therefore, we believe that a comprehensive and action-oriented approach is important. It will ensure that we better deal with the problems coal causes for patients and for society. The National Coal Council made a great effort and received, among other things, extensive examinations carried out among general practitioners. The studies showed extremely poor knowledge of the diagnosis, treatment and follow-up of coal. It also appeared that it was only 18 pst. who had a smoking weaning offer. We know that today there is a large proportion of patients who are underdiagnosed. In our view, it is crucial for this patient group to increase knowledge of coal and to enhance the quality of treatment. Voluntary organisations, as in many other areas, have once again gone ahead to obtain information and knowledge and to take action on those affected by coal. Government parties believe that the further effort to combat coal should be made as part of public health work and through the follow-up to the Cooperation Reform. That is to the extent that the Right agrees, but we believe it is a far too passive approach to a serious and ever-increasing public disease. We have been and are concerned about the danger that the chroniclers are the ones who will suffer as a result of the cooperation reform. Chronic diseases require a different approach and follow-up over time than we see today. It also appears that carbon atoms are among the most frequent swing door spaces in the specialist health service with up to 40 pst. cleaning within one year. Rehabilitation provision for carbon separators is also deficient. The government's change to reimbursement tariffs has led to the closure of many offers. In addition, we see that the specialist health service builds up its rehabilitation services before the competence of the municipalities is built up. The provision of good relief treatment, which is particularly important in the last part of the course of the disease in coal, is deficient. An overall opposition proposed to put in place a grant scheme for setting up hospice sites by both public and private non-profit actors in the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2013. The right is pleased that the other opposition parties support our proposal, but, like the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease, we are very disappointed that the government parties and the government could not support the proposal for a new coal strategy. Unfortunately, it doesn't help if we want to, but it's just preliminary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3131	Kols has developed into a population disease in the last ten years. In 2006, we received national COLS strategy with national objectives and measures in the fields of prevention, diagnosis, treatment, training of health professionals and research. It is a serious health challenge in society when as many as one in eight of the growing population has coals. It's a chronic disease that you don't get rid of and that leads to premature death. Both the United Nations and the World Health Organization have focused their attention on the non-infectious diseases and measures to limit them. In May 2012, the World Health Assembly adopted a target of reducing the premature death of non-infectious diseases by 25 pst. by 2025. Norway has given its support to this global objective. The World Health Organization has defined non-infectious diseases in this context as heart and car diseases, cancer, chronic lung diseases and diabetes. The Directorate for Health in Norway has reduced an expert selection to look at this, which has recently made recommendations to the authorities on actions that can contribute. Many of the measures they proposed are those that will be able to prevent coal. I agree with what the Minister of Health and Health wrote in the letter to the Committee, that the prevention and treatment of coal is closely linked to how well public health work works, and how well we are happy with the Reform of Cooperation. With the new Folkehelselova, municipalities have been given greater formal responsibility for public health work. Both smaller air pollutants from car traffic increase physical activity e.g. in the school, measures to stop smoking and to stop young people smoking are important coal prevention measures. The proposers ask the government to present a new carbon strategy as an update of the National Strategy for the COLS region 2006–2011. The central party shares the proposalers’ ambition to fight and treat the carbon epidemic, but I believe the Minister of Health is right that the important thing that needs to be done is that what has been developed and proposed during the strategy period must be implemented in the ordinary health service, among others. by means of the Interactions Reform, the commitment of the municipalities and the local authorities to strengthen the work of early diagnosis. The important public health work done by new tobacco laws must also be allowed to be mentioned. It's a matter that the Storting has to deal with. Several measures are proposed which are just mentioned in the carbon strategy. An example is the introduction of smoke-free schooling time. Smoking is, as you know, the main cause of coal. The interaction reform has as its main objective the change in health services, so that the municipal health service is prioritised to focus more on the large patient groups, i.e. on the chroniclers. The Kols-Kofferten project, established as part of the interaction and development project at the Dalane DMS, is an important experiment in connection with the Cooperation Reform. The aim of the project was to increase the focus on the coal group and create a solid treatment chain around that particular group, so that patients could get more good days at home, prevent entry and cleaning with increased security and mediterranean ability. Today, the project covers 18 municipalities and 330,000 inhabitants. I am concerned that we need to ensure the operation of this further and preferably extend similar supply throughout the country. The most important thing about limiting the carbon epidemic is to have a willingness to run prevention and have an active public health policy, and to strengthen community health services and make fixed good practice in treating and getting in touch with this patient group. It is not that the goal is to have a strategy – when you hear the debate here today, you may believe that it is the strategy that is the goal, but the strategy is just an action to achieve the goal. I am sure that we can achieve this by focusing on what is in the Cooperation Reform, and by strengthening the community health service.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3152	In the mid-1990s, one in fifteen of the Norwegian population had coal. Ten years later, the proportion has increased to one in eight. We have to say that carbon has become one of our new major public diseases. Nothing is more important than fighting smoking in the fight against coal, because we know that 70 pst. of the coal cases due exclusively to smoking. Therefore, it is with pride that I represent the Christian People's Party here in this Chamber and in this case with the grips that the Council of State Højbråten and the Bondevik II government did in the smoking law. But we have to do more. Clean air is important both indoor and outdoor, and according to the National Association for Heart and Pulmonary Disease, air pollution in the working environment accounts for 15 pst. of the coal cases. We also know that hereditary factors are involved in the risk of developing carbon. It is also possible that physical inactivity and dietary factors may influence the risk. There's a lot of people who have carbon without knowing about it. You think you have a bad breath, that it's because of age, and that you've trained too little. Cols is a creeping disease that has evolved over many years. I am pleased that the Council of State's response to the Committee shows that national guidelines have now been developed to identify people who do not know they have coal or who are at high risk of this disease. We need to do more research on why some people don't develop coal and others. In this context, I will be referred to exciting research carried out by Professors Gulsvik and Bakke at Haukeland University Hospital, which suggests that inheritance is important for developing this disease. But, like many other diseases, there are several reasons for developing this disease. This is why several measures need to be taken. The Christian People's Party agrees with Kjersti Toppe that prevention and public health work are essential. We also agree with Mr Toppe that a national strategy is only an instrument. However, it is an important tool to see overall action to reduce the number of people experiencing coal. That's why the Christian People's Party supports getting this tool, a national strategy, in place. To this end, I think we agree: fewer people will have to suffer from carbon sickness. But then we have to be able to prevent more, we have to be able to know more about why some people don't get coal and others, and to facilitate that for as little as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3171	I could be tempted to say: we have a strategy to combat coal – we have built knowledge, we have a will, and we have a great commitment to tackle this new people's disease. I stand here with a recently published national professional guideline and supervisor for the prevention, diagnosis and follow-up of carbon. It is a very solid, scientific, practical work that will benefit carbon atoms, current and future. It is an important topic we are discussing today. We still need to improve the prevention and treatment of the major non-infectious diseases, such as coal, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases, cancer, mental health and alcohol. That's the very core of the cooperation reform we're talking about here: setting up our healthcare system to meet the great challenge we're facing beyond this century. In order to attract more attention and more systematic work, we launched national strategies in 2006 for, among others, diabetes and coal. A number of measures relating to the prevention, diagnosis, follow-up and rehabilitation of coal were taken. These measures are now being followed up as an ordinary part of the services for people with coal. We've learned a lot at this time. The work on coal is also continued as a central element of public health work. The importance of smoking is repeated here in the Chamber, and we can rejoice that the number of smokers in Norway is falling, especially among young people. In the coal strategy, there were several measures related to better prevention and diagnosis through development of competences and guidelines. This has now been continued in the supervisor I point to here, and in the national guidelines for coal from November 2012. These include: pre-diagnosis of the permanent staff and the directorate is working to put the supervisor into service in the municipalities. We were ambitious about the coal strategy. Let's go on with the ambition. To solve the health challenges of the future, we need to ensure that resources go more to prevention and to the major chronicler groups. This is what the Interaction Reform is all about. Many of the interventions are not diagnostic specific but equally relevant to several different health problems. That's why we have to see them in context – not break them up. The supply to people with diseases such as coal and diabetes is not best organised on the side, through separate strategies, but in context and as the focus of attention in healthcare. This spring I present two major messages – on public health and on innovation in care. In both of these, life - style diseases will be central. Prevention, effective rehabilitation and a coherent treatment provision for chronic drug groups, such as carbon separators, will be important issues. The actions of the Interaction Reform shall improve the working life of carbon separators. Many carbon atoms have experienced frequent hospitalisations — swing door spaces they were called — which must be a feeling. The development of medicine and technology means that patients with coal can now receive safer offers in their home municipality. Municipalities have been given financial incentives to build up alternative offers so that interventions can be avoided if they are medically sound. Municipalities also receive funds to build up immediate-help-daily services. That is, patients with known chronic disease can get emergency help near where they live. Many will thus release the impact at hospitalisation. In terms of physical activity, the Interaction Reform has important actions through, inter alia: health centres, offering physical activity and providing comprehensive guidance from diet to smoking cessation. More than 150 municipalities now have this offer, and several are on their way. In 2013, we've put off $30 million. kr that municipalities can use to develop good models for day-to-day rehabilitation and treatment of chroniclers. The new regulations underline the responsibility of the decision-makers for the close follow-up of chroniclers. This provides security and more accessible help. Relieving treatment is also an important area of government initiative. The directorate's supervisor, whom I pointed out, has a separate chapter on the relief of people who die of coal, in response to the needs that were revealed during the bet period. Many want to die at home. We have therefore established a separate grant scheme to strengthen competence in relief and care at the end of life outside hospital. In addition, the investment grant to care facilities allows municipalities to build several palliative units. I believe that we agree on the importance of introducing measures in the field of coal, in order to prevent, and in order to provide patients with this serious disease, the best possible treatment. We can disagree on strategy. By continuing all main areas of intervention from our carbon strategy along with the tools of the Cooperation Reform, the government will provide a better and more coordinated treatment and rehabilitation provision for chronicles such as coal and diabetes patients. I think it will be important in the future to take advantage of the great prevention potential that we have, among other things. to prevent life-style diseases from developing into serious chronic diseases. This is also a question of social inequalities in health and needs to be seen in the context. It will be at the heart of the Communication on Public Health and the Communication on Innovation in Care. In conclusion, I would like to say that we are listening to the input we receive from user organisations, and we will keep considering further measures that can target and increase the quality of coal work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3203	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3206	So the government parties refuse to put in place a new coal strategy, leaning back and pointing to the interaction reform and public health work to be done in the municipalities. As I said in my post, carbon separators are the most frequent swing door spaces in the specialist health service, with up to 40 pst. cleaning in a year. The question then arises: is there, in the opinion of the Council of State, the sole threat of increased expenditure as a result of additional municipal funding to reduce the number of redundancies, or does the Council of State have additional measures that may limit the need for carbon separators to be applied to hospitals so frequently, with the burden it imposes on each patient?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3214	First, I have to be allowed to reject the fact that we're leaning back. I see that we really keep pressure on this, integrate the work against coal and get help for carbon spaces in the ordinary health care system close out where people live. The economic incentives are just part of it. I pointed out in my speech a number of measures that have come through the strategy period, which we are now integrating: everything from how the firmers work, what diagnostic tools they have, the importance of this guide, support for the establishment of health centres, work on tobacco, etc. I see that adopting a strategy can make it look like being very entrepreneurial and doing something targeted – and we have adopted strategies – but my opinion is that a strategy ensures a stepping up, and then integration. It also applies to diabetes, which is an important and major problem – with an important patient group. It is when it is integrated into the ongoing health system, understood by the many different actors and not broken up into single strategies, that I think we are getting effective action in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3223	The council just said that he would listen to the user organisations. I also expect him to listen to the trade unions. He went on to say that he would take all the good advice that had to come. But precisely the professional environments and patient organisations, user organisations, require a new carbon strategy, because they see that it is still necessary, and that there is a need for concrete action. Does the Council mean that they are wrong, and that they do not understand or understand what is going on in order to improve the availability of carbon separators?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3230	No, I don't want to impose on them that they're wrong. I respect that they want to focus on their disease. To put it that way: it is often the case that strong patient groups are behind – and it is good that we have them – and support them during the work done. I've had a meeting with LHL. We went through the whole list of the areas they're occupied with. I feel that we look very much like the approach here. But I am responsible for a comprehensive health service and have to look at, among other things. the interaction between specialist health services, the work of the municipalities, the supervisor, the supervisors – the apparatus we set in motion. What I see in the overview is that in the case of the chronic diseases, we also need to have a consistent approach. I am not accusing a patient organisation of having a different view. I'm listening to it. We've learned a lot from those conversations. But I'm worried that if we get a broken healthcare service where we have strategies for the different diseases, we can end up with five, six, seven, ten different strategies that will create a bad functioning in how we want the services to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3237	We are now in a situation of several health reforms, including: The interaction reform, and we are waiting for a matter of care technology and the use of new technologies. One of the projects relating to this patient group is the COLS case at the Dalane District Medical Centre in Egersund. It is a project that corresponds to the Interaction Reform by providing a few decentralised specialist health services. It's equivalent to using new technologies by enabling people to get help at home, to have contact with the health care system at home, and it's equivalent to giving this patient group a better life, just because you don't spend so much time on your illness, and can be at home and mastering your own situation. Will the State Council take any initiative to allow this project to continue? If not, I am afraid that this will be completed before we have started to achieve many of the objectives of the message we are waiting for from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3244	I have been shown the COLS case, and I see, as the representative says, that there are important intentions there that are safeguarded by being able to get treatment at home through transfer, and it seems absolutely exciting. I think there are about 170 people who have been able to use it. But I have obtained information from Health West about how they view this project. I don't see that it's rejected, as I see there are some speculations in the press about it. But I see and understand that they want to evaluate the experience after a few years of use. It's about the cost of technology. Is this the only way to do it? I guess such a suitcase could cost up to $1 million. kr. Are there other ways? It is the responsibility of the competent authorities of undertakings to assess. But I am sure that the positive experience of the evaluation will count. This is of this kind of thing that we're going to get into just the big news about the use of technology, where we're probably constantly too low in our health care system. So I hope that will also benefit the carbon atoms.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3251	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3267	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3276	Today, we are discussing a proposal from the Christian People's Party on the reduction of the time-frame and the extent of latencies. It is a unanimous committee that takes seriously the notifications about the senanes that have come from professionals and share the concerns they express. The Committee stresses that if there is reason to believe that the foetus is viable, interruptions may only be carried out if there is an imminent risk to the woman’s life or health. According to the abortion code, a foetus shall be considered viable if it would be able to survive outside the mother's life at the time of the abortion. The evaluation shall take into account existing post-resolution treatment options. Courageous midwives at the Rikshospital reported abortions where the foetus lived after the abortion. It made an impression on all of us. The Health Directorate addressed the case and has clarified that abortion is not to be granted on the basis of the physical and mental health of the woman, the situation of life or conditions affected by the penal code, after the birth of 22 completed weeks. We agree with that interpretation. Derogations may only be made where, after a specific assessment, the foetus cannot be considered to be viable or where pregnancy poses an imminent risk to the life or health of the woman. It was a pleasure to hear the midwives at the Rikshospital in the media last 10 May saying that they had already noticed a change. It was important to get a clarification from the Health Directorate, not least for those who have the responsible job in the subject of the abortion complaint. We support the Minister of Health that the practices that have been revealed give rise to a review and an assessment of whether there are several elements of abortion legislation that should be subject to precise interpretation. In the light of the practices identified, the Ministry of Health and Welfare has entrusted the Directorate of Health with the task of setting up an independent expert group to submit a report. The expert group has received a broad mandate. It shall review both the rules, practices and proceedings relating to the termination of pregnancy after the 18th week of pregnancy. It shall consider an interpretation of the legislation as well as the need for action to improve the procedure under the names and, where appropriate, propose measures. It shall assess the need to set the limit below 22 completed weeks in the light of the medical development related to the viability of the foetus. In its work, the expert group must emphasise the need for women to have a good and safe treatment of their abortion cases and the increasing legal protection of the foetus beyond pregnancy. Proposals wish to eliminate foetal harm as an independent indication of abortion after the end of the 12th week of pregnancy. If harm to the foetus is eliminated as an independent basis for abortion after the end of the 12th week of pregnancy, the woman must convince her that she is in a difficult situation of life or that it is an unreasonable burden on her health to give birth. Women with generally good mental and physical health who are in a stable and good life situation will not be able to have abortions on the proposal due to harm to the foetus. That the Christian People's Party is promoting the two proposals that they are now making is, of course, expected and a policy that they have been pursuing all along. But I have to say I am much more uncertain about what the Right believes in this matter. I was probably a little confused from before, but now I understand even less. Right will remove §2c of the Abortion Act as an independent criterion. At the same time, the Right claims that it should not weaken women’s rights, compared with current legislation, and that women’s own judgement should be emphasised. That's what I don't understand; I don't understand what the Right wants. When they want today's practice to continue, why would they spread uncertainty to women who are in a very difficult situation? This will be thanks, both parts – or said in another way: the right is trying to ride two horses. I believe the Right should be clear as to whether §2c should apply as a criterion or not. It is important that we, as politicians, are clear and clear, so that we do not create uncertainty about what is in force. The working party is concerned that women who have made the difficult choice deserve clarity. The last thing they need is the uncertainty the Right adds up to. Women in this country deserve clarity. The right weakens women's rights by saying that § 2 c only enters into force when the woman seeks on the basis of one of the other criteria. The working party is concerned that women who are in a very difficult and vulnerable situation should feel safe. Therefore, we do not want to remove §2(c) as a separate independent criterion. We therefore propose that the proposals should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3302	The representatives of the Progress Party have supported the current abortion law and still believe that it is adequate for the rights of both the woman and the foetus to protection and protection. However, medical and technical progress may have contributed to new ethical dilemmas. The representatives of the Progress Party are therefore pleased that, in their letter of 23 November last year to the Committee, the Minister for Health and Welfare announced a review and an assessment of whether there are elements of the legislation on abortions that should be the subject of a precise interpretation. The expert group set up by the Directorate-General for Health shall give its opinion on 1 March this year, and the Stortinget will probably be presented with a new case based on the content of this referral. The proposal in Document 8:148 S for 2011-2012 also means the removal of any possibility of abortion of a foetus with serious injuries, regardless of the extent of the injury and the state of the foetus, if it is able to survive outside the womb after week 12. It also removes the woman's own influence on the embryo's own future. In such cases, the woman will have to convince her that it will be a completely unreasonable burden on her health to give birth. Thus, Section 2 of the Abortion Act provides several criteria that allow abortion to be granted even after the period of entitlement to self-determined abortion has expired. When assessing whether the criteria have been met, attention shall be paid to how the woman assesses her own situation. The members of the Progress Party are of the opinion that this relationship should continue and that the woman should have this opportunity to take responsibility for the situation, opportunities and future of her own and of her unborn child. On this basis, the representatives of the Progress Party will vote against the proposals of the Christian People's Party. The proposal from the Right on changes to the abortion law § 2 c will remove the characteristics of the foetus as an independent abortion criterion. The reason for the proposal is the discrimination the proposers believe that many of those who currently live with conditions covered by Section 2(c) can experience. However, the members of the Progress Party consider that any change in Section 2(c) will not change the realities of this group and will not be able to contribute to changing the situation described. However, we do not ignore the fact that the announced position of the reduced committee of experts will be able to explain this in more detail, and we may come back to the matter when it comes to Stortinget. In this context, I recommend that the representatives of the Advance Party support the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3326	The abortion law is a law that challenges us in ethical dilemmas. The law itself is based on the notion that one considers that a fetus has a self-esteem, but still believes that the most correct thing is to let the woman herself assess her situation until the 12th week – not because one does not believe that the woman in that assessment emphasises that the foetus has a self-esteem. After 12 weeks, there is a cross-political agreement that an application for abortion must be dealt with under the heading. This proposal by the Christian People's Party addresses a matter that I believe affected us all when we were told that the development related to abortion after the 18th week of pregnancy had developed contrary to the intention of the Stortinge. The right is therefore pleased that at the time the Minister of Health reacted so quickly and started work under the direction of the Health Directorate just to clarify these issues, and we look forward to the clarification that the work of the Working Party will provide at the beginning of March. Of course, if this would involve the need for legislative changes, we expect that it will also come to Stortinget. The proposers from the Christian People's Party also take up a proposal to remove the abortion law § 2 (c). The right has also been programmed in its principal programme that one does not want the characteristics of the foetus to be an independent abortion criterion. However, it is not the case that the Right can therefore vote in favour of the proposal to remove Section 2(c) without delay. Firstly, the concept of ‘autonomous’ is essential in this discussion, precisely because we experience that many of those who live good, full lives with the conditions that provide an independent basis for abortion after 12 weeks, experience the design of the law as discriminatory. We therefore want it to be clear that conditions that are not compatible with life should, of course, also be an independent abortion criterion after 12 weeks, and that the characteristics of the foetus should remain a criterion in the abortion law. That's where we separate ourselves from the Christian People's Party. This means that the Right’s proposal will not weaken the woman’s right to participation in the termination of pregnancy compared with the current legislation. So many can say, Why does Right propose this? Well, that's because we believe that the law as it is designed today is perceived to be discriminatory. In order to take a picture of how this can be perceived as discriminatory even if it will not involve any change in practice, I will take you back to the discussion of common marriage law. One of the suggestions made in that discussion was to establish two marriage laws — one for marriage and one for marriage for two of the different sexes. It could be seen as a compromise proposal, but in my opinion it was a fundamental discriminatory proposal, precisely because such a division of the law – although it would not have any practical significance for those who joined the marriage – would have been based on the same argument as those who fought for equal rights in the United States, met during the discussion of the civil rights, namely that everyone got a bus, but they didn't get to drive by the same bus. Everyone was allowed to sit, but they were not allowed to sit on the same seat. That's how the Right believes that today's abortion law is being experienced for those people who live up to the traits that today provide an independent basis for abortion. Therefore, we believe that it should be reworded, and we therefore propose that the government should return, not to remove the characteristics of the foetus as an abortion basis, but not to have it as an independent abortion basis after 12 weeks, so that the law appears to have a limit on free abortion for the foetuses that are unknown to one and another limit on free abortion for the foetuses that know their properties. Today, the law is perceived by many as fundamentally discriminatory, although, in practice, the proposal of the Right does not restrict the woman’s ability to influence and have abortion even after 12 weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3341	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3344	The media release of 113 lateaways after week 22 in Norway between 1999 and 2010 has led to strong responses both in health professionals and politicians, understandably. The limit between premature children that we put in large resources to scare, and aborted fetuses, has been small. It has been shown that the practice of latent and reception has been contrary to current law. It is positive that the Directorate-General for Health has set up an expert group to look at the current rules on abortion after week 18 and whether more clarification of the legislation is needed to avoid misinterpretation. In particular, it is important that the group also make a professional assessment of better methods of determining pregnancy duration, since part of the cases that added the report concerned the foetus that the health care professional thought had come beyond what one believed. It's also positive that the Health Directorate has clarified that after week 22, abortion is not legal. The Health Directorate states that abortion is not to be granted because of the physical and mental health of a woman, the situation of life, or because of conditions that are subject to criminal law after the birth of 22 completed weeks. The Executive Board's clarification of the current law gives a week between the abortion limit and what is practiced as the viability limit at Norwegian neonatal wards. The exception is whether the foetus cannot be considered viable, or when there is imminent danger to the health or life of a woman. In its magnification program for the current growing-up period, the party has said that they will continue today's abortion legislation. However, I understand the proposals that have emerged today, for example: Right-wing proposal that the risk of illness in the child should not be an independent criterion for provoking abortion after week 12. I think it's a point that people who have and live with such diseases will be able to perceive this as discrimination. It is important that we have a law that facilitates social protection against sorting based on property. A late break is not a simple decision to take. I think that in practice more points will apply. So the question is how big a problem this is. But, as I said, I'm not going to use the big words against the suggestions that are being made. I understand the difference – that there should still be a self-contained criterion if there is no agreement with life. So to the Christian People's Party's proposal to lower the limit of late abortion to week 18. I understand that what the Health Directorate is about to look at right now is just a little bit of this. Now the Christian People's Party comes first with the fasit, but this is being distributed. The point is that, as medical progress progresses, there is today very little distance between what is the limit of estimated viability and the limit of abortion we have. It's like it might be hard to hit 100 pst. probably with pregnancy length, and they have seen, I think we should have had several weeks in between as a buffer zone. This is not the Center Party's policy today, but I just want to convey that I think I understand that this is being addressed. I think it's important that we have a proper debate on this, and not use the big words. What I still think is frightening, is that what came up through the media just came up through the media. I react to the fact that this was not discovered in the health service itself, and that it is not a quality assurance to ensure that the practice is contrary to current law. So what I can make a recommendation about is that the expert selection that the Directorate of Health has seen down, also looks at how this practice could develop without being corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3363	Let me first of all define the framework for this proposal by the Christian People's Party. The Christian People’s Party’s position that today’s law on abortion should be replaced by a law that guarantees legal protection for the unborn. The Christian People's Party still believes that the right to life should be enshrined in the Constitution. This is a fundamental principle for us, because we believe that every human being has an infinite value and has inviolable rights from conception to natural death. The right to life is the most fundamental of the inviolable rights that we have only by being human, and the right to life is a prerequisite for the other rights. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that we should have an abortion law underpinning the foetal's right to life, and that the decision relating to life and health is in dialogue between the patient and the doctor. The current proposal for a representative is promoted because we have seen that practices and technological developments are creating the need for changes in today's abortion law. The law has stood still, while the technology, of course, has gone further. It is quite obvious that medical developments mean that a law needs to be updated. As far as practice is concerned, I think we are all concerned with the information that has emerged. We have to take these seriously. We've heard many stories about individual cases from midwives and other health professionals. They tell about children who are put aside to die after abortion – abortions that have appeared to be completely healthy. In the spring of 2012, it was found in the media that in the period 1999 to 2010, 113 Senabaways were carried out after week 22 in Norway. The subject of the complaint has therefore accepted applications for late departures in violation of the applicable law. The Health Directorate informed in May this year that the subject of the abortion complaint has based on an interpretation of the abortion law and the regulation which implies that no abortion is normally granted after the end of the 22nd week of pregnancy, but that viability occurs after the end of the 24th week of pregnancy. This practice is not in line with the abortion regulation § 18 on the definition of viability. The Health Directorate then made a clarification of the legislation. Abortion after week 22 + 0 days is specified as illegal. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the committee in the vote states that we take seriously the concerns about the late-aways that came from professionals. We are also pleased with the clarifications made by the committee in the vote. It is good that the Directorate of Health, on behalf of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, has set up an independent group of experts such as: shall review the laws, practices and proceedings of the persons concerned. The Christian People's Party's view is that there is a need to legislate an absolute limit to abortion in today's law. There must be no future abortion of viable foetuses. A child who shows signs of life after an abortion must have the same right to treatment, relief and care as premature births. The concept of ‘viable’ is arduous to assess. In order to cut off any possibility of a viable fetus being aborted, the Christian People's Party believes that abortion after week 18 should not be possible unless there is imminent danger to mother's life and health, or that the fetus has a condition incompatible with life, so that it will never be able to survive outside the womb. Man is entitled to both human dignity and life, simply because it is a human being. That is why we are promoting our first proposal. We also promote proposals for the removal of §2(c) of today's abortion law. It is that foetuses should not be aborted after the 12th week of pregnancy solely on the basis of the characteristics of the child or lack thereof, e.g. if there is an indication of disease, disability or Down syndrome. We know that more and more children are being aborted due to less listening, wrong sex and other traits that their parents do not want. This is a development of the Christian People's Party warns against, because each child, regardless of its characteristics, has his human dignity and is to be treated as the resource all children are. I'd like to ask, what signals do we send to society when the child's characteristics are recognized as independent abortion? Does it make it easier, or does it make it harder, to be different? Does it provide a more inclusive society or a less inclusive society? I bring this up with the Christian People's Party proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3393	The representative, Mr Heimdal, then addressed the proposals she mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3396	The abortion law currently has rules to balance the consideration of the pregnant woman on the one hand and the consideration of the foetus on the other. Before the end of the 12th week of pregnancy, the attention of the woman is heavier. Then she decides whether or not to interrupt pregnancy. In addition to pregnancy, more and more attention is paid to the legal protection of the foetus. After 12 weeks, abortion students decide whether or not pregnancy can be interrupted. If pregnancy has reached the age of 18 weeks, particularly severe reasons must be given to permit abortions. If there is reason to believe that the foetus is viable, interruptions may only be made if there is an imminent risk to the life or health of the pregnant woman. A fetus is considered viable if it is able to survive outside the mother's life at the time of the interruption. In that assessment, one shall take into account the possibilities for treatment after any redemption. In order to avoid viable abortions, the Christian People's Party proposes that abortions after the 18th week of pregnancy should be allowed only if there is an imminent risk to the woman's life or health or the foetus has a condition incompatible with life. I cannot support this proposal. In my opinion, it is not necessary to amend the law in order to ensure the legal protection of the foetus. However, it is important that current abortion legislation is respected and that the increasing legal protection of the foetus is respected in line with the length of pregnancy. Abortion of viable foetuses shall not occur unless pregnancy poses an imminent risk to the life and health of the pregnant woman. Therefore, I am also pleased that the Health Directorate has clarified that a foetus should normally be considered viable after 22 completed gestational weeks, and that exceptions can only be made if, after a specific assessment, the foetus is nevertheless considered not to be viable. This could be done, for example, by: be because it has damage incompatible with life. I agree with this interpretation. I am now looking forward to receiving the report from the expert group reviewing today’s legislation on the practice of sensitizers and abortion students. These include: assess whether there is a need for more precise interpretations of the legislation and whether the main and appeal proceedings can be improved. In its work, the expert group must focus on the need for good and safe treatment of the woman’s abortion case and also on the increasing legal protection of the foetus in line with the length of pregnancy. The expert group has asked for a deadline to deliver its report – not much, but until 8 April 2013. Let me also comment on the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the Right to eliminate the harm of the fetus as an indication and an independent indication of abortion, respectively, after the end of the 12th week of pregnancy. Today, women have the right to have abortions between 12 and 18 weeks of gestation if there is a high risk of serious illness. This is in practice defined to include, for example: major heart malformations, spinal cord fractures, injuries due to, for example, mother have used epileptic medicines at the beginning of pregnancy, or severe chromosome abnormalities, such as Down syndrome. I believe it is important to have respect for women who have been told that the fetus they carry has such a serious illness, and who therefore, after careful consideration, will not want to complete their pregnancy. I don't think it's an easy decision to make – to apply for abortion in these cases. I don't want to add to the burden on these women by forcing them to have to convince the abortion students that they are in a difficult life situation, or that it would be an unreasonable burden on their health to give birth to the child. If the harm to the foetus is removed as an independent basis for abortion after the end of the 12th week of pregnancy, I believe that the women have to do just that. Women with generally good mental and physical health, who are in a stable and good situation of life, will not be able to have abortions due to harm to the foetus. I believe that serious harm to the foetus should be maintained as an independent basis for granting abortion between the 12th and the 18th week of pregnancy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3427	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3430	There is evidence that, in recent years, the subject of an abortion complaint has granted applications for lateaways that are contrary to the law in force. There is also evidence that an abortion was carried out on at least one case in 2012 where the foetus showed clear signs of life for three hours after the procedure. In this case, no life-saving treatment was given. It is hoped that the regulatory constraints imposed by the Health Directorate will prevent such situations from occurring in the future. Still, this isn't something we can be 100 pst. make sure. Similar cases were detected at Haukeland Hospital in 1994, without any change in practice. Can the Council of State give a signal on how healthcare professionals should behave if similar situations arise in Norwegian hospitals in the future? Should life-saving treatment be given, or should healthcare professionals be passive to the life signs of the foetus cease?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3441	I will answer as follows: Of course, health professionals should, in line with common practice, provide lifesaving help to viable people. What has arisen from doubts about practice of abortion after week 18 has made it necessary for the Health Directorate to go through this and for an expert selection of skilled independent experts to go through this practice, so that health professionals can also be safe in the assessments they make in relation to the guidelines they have. I am constantly confident that Norwegian health professionals have a high ethical awareness of the responsibility they have in saving lives where it stands in focus. Therefore, I hope that the work that the Health Directorate is about to do will help to remove the uncertainty that may have arisen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3448	The Council of State began its intervention by saying that there is a balance between women and children who are governed by today's abortion law and that children have increased legal protection beyond pregnancy. It's important things to bring with it. But we also know that more and more children are being aborted because of defects, illness, sex, or other traits that their parents do not want. I have a great deal of respect for the statements of the Council of State and the political stance of the Council of State, but my challenge is about a somewhat general perspective, about whether the Council of State sees §2c as giving us challenges in being an inclusive society – and not a less inclusive society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3455	I first want to say that I will also show great respect for those who have different conclusions from me in these questions. I understand that these are questions that also go to the heart of ethical and conscientious values that I have great respect for – including those that do not share my view. I want to emphasize that the technological development of all stages of life gives us increased access to knowledge. Knowledge is a major resource in some contexts, and knowledge is a major challenge in some contexts. It is therefore important that we as a society have a regulatory framework that enables us to handle that knowledge in an ethically sound manner. I believe that this debate has shown some of the issues that arise. I think that the representative Höie gave an interesting assessment of the emphasis he is making there. For me, however, it comes back to the basics that I have faith that during the period between 12 and 18 weeks Mother will have the decisive word, and that she is able to make that decision. Then, as a society, we get to have an ongoing debate on how we treat knowledge, so that we are an inclusive society, not a sorting society, to which the representative refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3464	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3467	First of all, I would like to say that I agree with what has been said about the matter as a whole by the Labour Party representative and the State Council – and in particular by the representatives of the Progress Party. I have some questions about what the Right Representative Höie presented as the reason for his proposal, i.e. about §2(c). In that reason, there are a couple of questions that come up where I don't quite understand what the Right really means. Firstly, the intention of the change is justified by the fact that some people experience discrimination with current legislation. I'll leave it, but it's interesting in many perspectives in this room. The second is on how to practice legislation. This is interesting both in terms of discrimination and in terms of legislation. When you, as the Right now wants, remove Section 2(c) as an independent criterion, but at the same time say that it should have no practical significance, it would be interesting to hear how you think there should be less discrimination. That's the one. The second is how you think you should practice it. Today, there are five independent criteria that allow abortion to occur after week 12. The other four criteria are only about mother’s condition — physical, mental or social — or whether pregnancy has come as a result of rape or incest. The only criterion relating to the health of the child is § 2c. It should be removed as an independent criterion, but it is still said not to have any practical significance. This needs an explanation. The second is how to practice this in reality when these women are to be mentioned and explained. Does it mean that you have to lie if everything is really perfect in life – if mental and physical health is good, and social health is good? Do you have to add a little something in order to get through with the reason why you want to interrupt your pregnancy? There are major questions about how to deal with that practice, and how to actually do it for each woman, in the denominator. The last is what becomes an innovation instead of today's paragraph. Compatible with life – what is it? Today we have a number of trisomals that naturally interrupt pregnancy because the fetus does not survive. We have three trisomies where you get some survival of fetuses. With e.g. Patau's syndrome can survive a fetus and live up to the age of ten. Is it compatible with life? It's a new ethical dilemma when the right introduces. How do you interpret that understanding? Is it two months after birth, is it five months after birth, is it much or little suffering? Here, new ethical dilemmas are introduced in an attempt to avoid saying what you really mean.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3486	The abortion law in Norway is based on the notion that the human dignity of the foetus is increasing with age. Before the 12th week, no legal protection has been imposed in Norwegian law. The time 12 weeks is quite random. There are no medical or biological events in the foetus during this week that indicate that the foetus will gain more value after 12 weeks. It's also the way that healthy fetuses gradually get legal protection. After 12 weeks, abortion may be granted if the foetus has anomalies or illness, or if the pregnancy, birth or care of the child can lead to undue stress on the physical or mental health of the woman. In this way, abortion legislation is based on a gradation of human life. When should a foetus be granted personal status and be subject to protection? This is a question that the Christian People's Party often addresses in difficult ethical debates. There are difficult balances to make every time we discuss these issues, but it is important for the Christian People's Party to be a voice that says something about all people being equally valuable, completely independent of what we are capable of performing, or whether we have diagnosis or deviation. This is important to us in the Christian People's Party. Children with disease and diagnosis are particularly vulnerable in their mother's stomach, and we are concerned that they should receive a vote and a reinforced legal protection. Therefore, there are three things that are important in this matter. One is the abortion limit up to 12 weeks, and there we disagree with the majority of the population. But it's also about the reasons for abortion after 12 weeks, which is about what's going on in order to get rid of it. There we want a stronger legal protection for sick children. The third point concerns the extent to which the majority wishes to apply to the possible granting of latent residence. Having heard the Council of State and the contributions to the Summit of the Center Party, I wonder if it is such that one considers whether, with the technological and medical developments that have taken place, one should actually lower the limit of permitted late-away? Is it a topic that this group of experts is looking at, or is it already rejected? Because that's how evolution has gone past the law, and it's important that we don't have border crossings that create doubt. I share the concern of the representative Toppe that this practice has been allowed to develop. I also want to take the opportunity to praise the midwives who finally dared to say about a practice that had been difficult for many to live with. It deserves tribute and support, and I am glad that the whole Stortinget has underlined it in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3499	At the beginning of the 1990s, Kristin Klemet, Kristin Aase of the Christian People's Party and Kristin Halvorsen of SV sat down and wrote a debate paper under the heading «Abort. A debate for the 90s’. A number of the questions raised by this proposal for a representative were raised in a cross-political context. But one can say in many ways that abortion was not the debate of the 1990s. Perhaps the development we've seen, as a result, is that it's been very difficult to discuss the abortion law and the limits of the abortion law, even though medical development might have led to the cross-political appeal of women from the Christian People's Party, Right and SV at the time. With regard to the questions from the representative Breen, I would really like to start by referring to the post from the representative Kjersti Toppe, who said that she had understood this shade and actually explained quite well to the difference. Breen can read that post afterwards if he does not understand my explanations of this. Then he elegantly jumped over what is the whole basis for the Right's position, namely that we believe that today's law itself is perceived as discriminatory. But then the question is, how will the legislation possibly be practised with the Right proposal? We say that we want to remove §2c as an independent criterion, but keep it as a criterion. The abortion law has five independent criteria, but it is not the only one that assesses when assessing an application. In the following paragraph, it says that there is a great deal of emphasis on the woman applying for abortion, as a basis for granting abortion. It's also a factor that's being factored in. In that context, it would also be natural to have entered the ratios and properties of the fetus. This removes it as an independent criterion, but not as a criterion. So that's not how the Council of State's response could be, that it's the woman who has the decisive word in weeks 12-18. No, it is the denominator that has the decisive word for weeks 12-18. There are no parties – as far as I register – who have taken up counter-proposals against them. The representative of Breen also raises the question of the concept of ‘incompatibility with life’ and tries to problematize it. Then I would like to refer to the representative of Breens and the other members of the Committee's joint comment, where we use this term, to the Council of State's response, where he uses this term, and otherwise say that it is a rather well-informed concept in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3510	Several speakers and last speakers, the representative Bent Höie, have indicated that today's abortion law is perceived as discriminatory, with special reference to the discussion about the granting of Senaborts between 12 and 18 weeks and § 2c. The way society treats disabled people is more than an abortion law. An abortion law is the way we treat the legal relationship around abortion. I think the argument that comes from the Right is quite incomplete. The fundamental question is why it is more ethically right to grant an abortion based on a serious illness for one who is, for example, an abortion. unemployed, having social problems, and which will be recognised in a denominator, than one which may represent the opposite, with a situation of life which is considered by a public opinion that a disabled child should be able to be brought forward. Why is one more ethical right than the other? Today's law is perceived as discriminatory. Discriminating for whom? It's a fundamental question that the right does not answer. I'm very sceptical that the Right's proposal will be passed, but fortunately it doesn't. If it were to be implemented, the procedure would be moved from criteria related to the foetus to those relating to the physical and mental health of the woman, to the situation in life and to other non-objective factors. The criterion of serious disease in the foetus is at least a relatively objective factor, while the woman’s situation in life, health, physical and mental status are not objective factors. I think that the Storting in this debate deserves a right answer to how you want to deal with such a situation, and why you think one is more ethically correct than the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3519	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, asked if he or she was assessing the 22-week time limit for late abortion. What I have referred to is what is stated in the letter from the Ministry of Health and Health about what the independent expert group should look at. A point is that it should: ‘review the medical development related to the viability of the foetus and assess on this basis whether there is a need to initiate a separate work that looks at the limit of when the foetus is to be presumed to be viable under the abortion law and whether the limit should be set below 22 completed weeks’.’» Then my reasoning is that if the expert group comes up with it, it will have a natural consequence on the limits of the delay. Furthermore, it is a point that the expert group should: ‘Assess whether specific procedures or other measures should be put in place to ensure that the assessments of the viability limit under the abortion law are consistent with medical progress at all times’. That's what's my point, and this is a debate that we'll certainly come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3539	I just want briefly to refer to the mandate given to this group, because there were questions about it. It's about... «examine the current rules on abortion following the 18th week of pregnancy and the treatment of primary and central complaints relating to the granting or refusal of termination of pregnancy after the 18th week of pregnancy, assess the need for more precise interpretations of the legislation, assess the need for measures to improve the treatment of primary and central complaints, and, where appropriate, propose measures to review the medical developments related to the viability of the foetus and assess the need to initiate a self-employed work at the border where the foetus is to be presumed to be viable under the abortion law and whether the limit should be set at less than 22 completed weeks». So there's a pretty open invitation to the group to go through medical progress and then assess whether there's a need for a job. We can't expect to get a conclusion on that in April, but we can probably expect to get a recommendation if there's a need for a separate job to adjust the number 22 completed weeks. Finally, the group shall: ‘Assess whether specific procedures or other measures should be put in place to ensure that the assessments of the viability limit under the abortion law are consistent with medical progress at all times’. I assume that it will also capture some of the questions that the representative Hemdal is dealing with, namely the ethical issues that arise from knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3570	All first just a clarification of what must be an obvious misunderstanding in what Höie said. The only indication where it can be said that you have a legal claim is Section 2(c). If a serious disease has been detected in the foetus, there is a legal requirement for abortion and the latter has no possibility of refusing. If you remove it, you've immediately put the system in a game where you're going to put assessments, like the other criteria. That's the one. So you lose the legal protection you have today, when you change Section 2(c) – that's actually the case. So the other thing that I took up, and that Höie didn't quite understand. In the comments to the Right, for example: Does Down’s syndrome or Turner’s syndrome pose a problem as an argument for wanting an embellishment or an approach to another legal home in Section 2(c), how do you interpret the rest of the proposal to replace Section 2(c), where you drag ‘irrespective of life’ into the paragraph? Because in many of the trisomies where the fetus can survive a normal pregnancy and even live for quite a long time, it is a dilemma in assessing §2(c). How to interpret the right to life, for example: by Edward's syndrome, where most people die during the first year, but where can anyone live a little bit longer? Is it within or outside the definition of the Right? That was my question. So you reopen an ethical debate in an attempt to avoid an ethical debate around Section 2(c), and that's what surprises me a little. I think that because this is a difficult field for all parties – everyone thinks this has dilemmas – it should be quite clear when one first believes something about a change. There's a struggle from 1977 to today in political Norway where you've discussed these dilemmas, where right now, as I experience it, try to make up what you're really looking for with the change of §2c. So I am in no way reassured by the freedom of choice of Norwegian women today in relation to the law, when you want to remove the only criterion that takes into account the state of the fetus, and in fact the only criterion that makes you have legal protection according to the law according to how you practice it today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3579	Bent Höie has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3582	Right is not a party that drives and snows laws and regulations in Stortinget. That is also one of the reasons why we do not go on a direct proposal to change the law, but ask for an investigation proposal. It is then natural to use the term ‘irreconcilable with life’ because it is the concept of a user in this context. Then I will refer to the committee's comment where one says: ‘However, it cannot be considered viable: [[among other conditions incompatible with life]] In the work on law and regulation, and in the work that the directorate now does on this concept, one will of course go into the conditions that Breen addresses, and make boundaries in which areas are compatible with life, and what is not. It would be totally unthinkable to do it in the form of a comment from the Storting. Then I just want to stress again that the criterion of the characteristics of the fetus should not be removed from the law, but removed as an independent basis for abortion and seen in connection with the woman's application.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3593	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3609	On 26 November, the Riksrevision presented a report on the management of the capital process by the Health South-East and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. On the same day, the Minister of Health agrees with the criticism and says to TV 2: ‘As I see it, this process has been poorly planned and implemented.’ It was a whole new tone from political leadership. But in the past, the management of Health South-East had made the same concessions, first in the report to the board on 25 October, since the media. So the Executive Director of November 1st, a few days later. One must be aware that the Ministry of Health and Welfare knew throughout this period the content of the critical report of the Riksrevision, a report which the Ministry had already delivered on 17 October. The core of the National Audit Office’s report is a comment on the Ministry of Health’s answers: ‘After the National Audit Office’s assessment, neither the HSØ nor the Ministry have managed to manage the critical risk of adapting management and taking the necessary corrective action early enough. Since it is the owner of the instruments to manage critical risks associated with the overall framework for the conversion operation, this means that according to the National Audit Office’s assessment, ownership management has not been properly exercised within the formal framework of the Health Business Act.’;» The National Audit Office's report will be the subject of a separate case in Stortinget. But it must be said to be a crushing sentence on the ownership of the process, and it has led to concessions both from the management of Health South-East and from the Minister of Health. The aim of this interview is to raise a debate on whether these findings also lead to a change in ownership management. Lack of planning, risk management and assumptions for the process currently have actual consequences for patients and those working at Oslo University Hospital and Aarhus. This has a long-term effect, the problems have not been solved. If the Ministry of Health and Health acknowledges that the change was not well managed by the owner, will one do so differently now when one has to clean up the consequences and the long-term impact of this? Here the impression has not been uplifting so far. Many expected to receive more answers in the Minister of Health’s speech about and to the specialist healthcare service on 30 January. Then we heard: «We also follow the work of the management of Akershu University Hospitals on the challenges of the hospital. The Ministry has clear expectations of Health South-East and the management of Aarhus, that the hospital should have good professional services and rational operation.» Then I almost got a dakapo experience in relation to what the previous Minister of Health responded to the interpellation that I traveled to Stortinget on 12 October 2010: ‘I have set up much more regular meetings with Health South-East, just to follow this process, follow up deviations, and also these reports that are seen in following up deviations, in order to be able to adjust and implement measures and ensure that they do so. It is not that responsibility is powdered, but it is a responsibility at each level. That is why Oslo University Hospital also has a great responsibility for the implementation of its own migration process.’ Further in presentation to the Stortinget on 10 June 2011: «I follow closely the situation at Oslo University Hospital. My assessment is that Oslo University Hospital has worked purposefully and constructively to ensure a sound and good offer to patients, including in a demanding conversion process.» Further in response to interpellation 28 November 2011: «I would like to repeat what I said in the first case that was up today, that this is a process that we follow closely – of course we do it». Now we have the answer: Critical risk was reported up, responsibility was pushed down, although the means of doing something about what was reported in relation to critical risk were and was retained at the owner level. I'm afraid the same thing happens now when you're going to correct the long-term effects of this. Oslo University Hospital and Aarhus have limited instruments. Health South-East and the Ministry of Health and Welfare need to sit down around the same table to discuss openly what to do to move on. It is necessary to correct the errors, rebuild public confidence and get a positive process with the employees. A great deal of the challenges faced by this migration process have been the lack of building conditions, the challenges of manning to deal with the tasks that hospitals were facing, and there has been a lack of ICT infrastructure. All three of these conditions are very difficult for individual hospitals, Oslo University Hospital and Aarhus, to handle on their own without the active involvement of the owner, Health South-East and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. One now knows that the transfer from Oslo University Hospital to Aarhus was not well planned from the owner. The necessary staffing did not go to Ahus, and it created great difficulties for the hospital and patients, especially in the winter and spring of 2011. We're still seeing long-term effects of this. One of the conditions that were pointed out before and during the conversion from the staff of Aarhus – and still pointed out – was linked to whether the hospital had the capacity to receive the patients it was supposed to receive. Now we see that the board has recently dealt with a matter on this, where one has taken a number of measures to increase capacity, use the capacity of the Ski Hospital, convert the patient hotel into hospital wards and a number of other measures. That means that one of our latest hospitals, which has been planned for a long time, and where many of these assumptions have been known for a long time, has now become a hospital that employs a number of temporary, provisional solutions. The question that one should ask in such a situation is: When this was identified early in the process as the key risk factors, why does one end up having to use temporary solutions so late in the process, instead of using the identification of the risk to initiate action at an early stage, so that one of our latest hospitals actually appeared as a hospital dimensioned for the tasks it should have, rather than a hospital that is characterized by temporary solutions? That's a central question. The second key question I hope to be answered today is: How will the recognition that the ownership management of the process was not good enough lead to changes in ownership management in the follow-up to the long-term effects of the failure to properly manage the process?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3661	There has been a lot of attention around hospitals in the capital region. The conversion was and is demanding, especially for the employees. For this room, these relationships are well-lit, and I don't think it appropriate to repeat the details of that story, at least what has been debated here in the past. I refer you to the hearing in the control committee and the subsequent debate in Stortinget, and I agree with the conclusions reached by the majority at that time. I'm a little in doubt about who it is that invites to the Dakapo here, when the representative Höie goes through things that were the recording of debates in different organs of the Storting, but I'll leave it. With regard to the conversions at Oslo University Hospital, I believe we can acknowledge that, among other things. the lack of staffing plans and the lack of realisation of the project «clinical work» adversely affected the progress of the conversion processes. During a visit to Oslo University Hospital and Akershu University Hospital last autumn, I stated that the planning and implementation of the conversion seemed to be defective. I understand that the staff in particular have reacted to this, but also the population of the capital region. It is true that several measures have been taken to correct these deficiencies, and we see today a number of examples of hospitals triggering the potential of a better organised hospital structure that can deliver better services to patients. In my response to the Riksrevision, which is being treated in Stortinget, I am clear that the measures taken in the spring of 2011 against the administration and management of Oslo University Hospital should have been started earlier. This would result in budget excesses being less and progressing faster. I've emphasized that one in the remaining phase of the transition draws lessons from these experiences. The speed with which the various conversions are to be carried out has not been specifically required. Any conversion of such a scale and complexity requires the ability and willingness to make in-flight adjustments and adjustments. Such balances must be made on a continuous basis by those responsible for the implementation of the measures and the day-to-day operation. I believe that a great deal has now been achieved, and I have not heard anyone outside in the direction of rewinding back to the situation before the conversions. I trust that the new board and the management of the Oslo University Hospital will manage the hospital in a good way. In the face of Health South-East, and in direct contact with the hospital management at Oslo University Hospital, I have particularly underlined the importance of ensuring the anchoring of remaining shifts among hospital employees. And let me say to the representative, "Well, we're sitting around the same table, one and two and more times, to make sure we're moving in the right direction." It was important to clean up the division of labour and functions in the capital area. When this government took over in 2005, hospitals were in financial imbalance. Preliminary accounts now indicate that all health regions will be in an economic balance in 2012. This is due to increased appropriations and systematic work to improve the understanding and control of costs. I want to commend the employees who have made major changes and changes. Developments at Oslo University Hospital are now on track. That's my clear opinion. The main coordination activities have been carried out. It provides strong professional environments and good medical results. Work has been done well with the Municipality of Oslo on the establishment of the Aker Interaction Arena, and strategies and plans have been developed in the short and long term. There may be some exciting development work here that will take on-the-go learning. Oslo University Hospital is now driving a project to secure joint patient administration systems throughout Health South-East. I also think it was right to build Akershu University Hospital. The population in the area deserved a new, modern hospital, and that's this hospital. The management of Akershu University Hospital is working well with the hospital’s challenges. The Ministry has clear expectations for Health South-East and the management at Aarhus that the hospital should have good professional services and rational operation. The region is responsible for adapting capacity, resources and infrastructure to the area of uptake. Anxiety messages about Ahus are being taken seriously – I can assure you that, and the Health Authority and County Council will follow the hospital closely through their own supervision. I have asked these two specifically to comment on the proper operation and have confidence that the inspections they have carried out will clarify it. Figures from the Knowledge Centre, which came last week, show that the overall survival of Aarhus has increased from 2010 to 2011, and that the hospital does not differ from the average. That doesn't mean everything's well with Ahus, but at least that doesn't give any point of view to say that this hospital is a less good hospital on a Norwegian scale. Now measures are being taken to ensure the required medical homes at the hospital, the emergency reception is being extended, and a scheme is being considered to increase the number of bed places. It is not new that both temporary and long-term measures are being taken to remedy a situation that arises in an area as large as that served by Aarhus. The management and the employees stress that they want to keep the recording area of the day, and I have no immediate plans to change it. But I think it's reasonable that Health South-East and the other regions are constantly assessing the areas of exposure to ensure that there is always consistency between capacity and patient base. Conversions related to the capital process remain. Changes in health establishments in the metropolitan area would have taken place independently of organisation. Conversion will always be necessary to ensure good development. I notice that the CEO of the OUS believes that the budget for 2013 allows the company to operate at a significantly lower risk than previously announced. The Management Board has asked the Executive Director to intensify maintenance and remedial projects in the light of the circumstances arising from supervision. Aarhus has undergone major changes in recent years and it is now important for the organisation to have peace and space to ensure good operation. Aarhus and Health South-East are looking at the capacity again. It has been challenging for Aarhus to find an appropriate and appropriate capacity during 2012 in terms of staffing and beds. It has, among other things, coherence with uncertainties about the effects of the interaction reform and that the hospital has had wide variations in the number of acute patients from day to day and from week to week throughout the year. In the autumn and winter they have therefore made new adjustments – which we have not yet seen fully effective. The hospital needs to look closely at the composition of competences, daily rhythms, bed distribution based on patient flows, emergency reception and patient courses, bed times, etc. I have noticed that the board at Aarhus has proposed a number of measures to increase bed capacity, to strengthen the emergency reception and to increase staffing, and that it is working to investigate the economic impact of these measures. I know that Health South-East is following this continuously, and I can assure you that I am. Following the changes in the Health Business Act, I have a responsibility to follow up on these questions, with the vigilance that I am trying to raise. I hope we can use the debate here today to discuss what the government and the Storing can do to strengthen and help the employees of our hospitals. It's easy to criticize what goes wrong, and we'll do that. However, it is equally important which measures we choose to improve. The inter-pellant shall be in favour of his being active with a number of proposals for organisation in the hospital sector. Allow me then to say that in my opinion, several of these proposals – and the most intrusive of them – will hardly improve the situation at Aarhus. I mean, for example. that it is a strength to see all hospitals within a region as a whole. Removing the regional level will result in a loss of financial flexibility to support hospitals that for a period of time are struggling with economy and operation. I would like to add that if private people are to have free access to hospitals' budgets, as the Right agrees, it will be difficult to operate Aarhus, with all its social functions – from emergency reception to research and training – in a good enough way. I have recently – in my speech on 30 January – presented a number of measures that will benefit hospitals in the capital area. The representative went with the hare lab over them, but let me mention some: longer opening hours at hospitals and an analysis of how we can use buildings, equipment and personnel better than today, in order to meet the needs of the population, the introduction of a full-time culture that can help to make better use of competences, a better division of tasks between those working at hospitals, where the many professional groups increasingly interact more closely and across teams, the winding-up of the system of allowances for medical positions to come into force from June this year – which will make it easier for Aarhus and other hospitals to adapt their crews It is also decided to increase the operational credit line for Health South-East through a redistribution of the operational credit frameworks between the regions, which will be phased in over three years. Health South-East will thereby increase the freedom of action to meet the challenges in the capital area, while harmonising the allocation of operational credit in line with the allocation of the normal distribution of income. I also take action to improve the management of hospitals. Conversions in the metropolitan area have received a lot of attention in the media and in this room. It may be appropriate to recall that there have been demanding changes also in other parts of the country. It's not that the capital region stands out in particular. I have good dialogue with both employee representatives and the management of the enterprises in the metropolitan area. My impression is that they are now in a good track; the challenges are recognised, and they are being addressed. This means that demanding work is still ahead of us, and that we recognize it. The most important thing is that patients receive a good service offer, and I believe that the new organisation in the capital area will contribute to this. I want to remind you that this was not a reform that was meant to save money, but it was meant to exploit resources in a wiser way, for a capital area of rapid development. Nothing is more important to me than ensuring that these hospitals deliver to their potential, knowing that this is a region where the population is rapidly growing and where existing, temporary and new initiatives will be necessary to provide the population with a good health supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3736	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, and I would also agree with an assessment that management, both at OYS and at Ahus, has got this process into a significantly more constructive track than has been the case in the past. The external impression is that there is a better dialogue and better cooperation with employees. If you look back at many of the objectives and visions behind the establishment of the OYS, which I see as a cross-political consensus, there are still some prerequisites that must be in place for them to become a reality, and which I believe today's system does not facilitate the establishment. You can see, among other things: the capital area and, in particular, the OUS has an ICT infrastructure which has been significantly lagging behind, compared to the situation in other health regions. The question is whether you are able to raise this on your own at all, without finding new ways of financing it. The same applies especially to the building conditions. To realize the benefits of establishing this as a major hospital, where one gathers many professional environments and gets in place and cultivates under exciting research environments, I think most people see that you are also dependent on having completely different building conditions than today. Does the Council of State think that today's funding system and management system facilitate a reality within a time perspective that actually means that employees see that this process ends? In the issue of Ahus, where a number of capacity pick-up measures have now been launched, one looks at the content of these measures as having a temporary character. I think, for example, that no one can seriously imagine that one of the largest hospitals in the country should be able to operate for a long time without having their own patient hotel. Some of the smallest hospitals in our country today have their own patient hotels. Will Aarhus be able to start planning – within the management systems, frameworks and conditions that exist for today’s activities – how to have a permanent capacity for the population base to be served? These are questions that are fundamental, as it is the responsibility of the owner to clarify, and which I believe we need to have a discussion about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3753	I am pleased that the representative Höie admits that there is now a process in a better track. I think it is important that employees also hear from this room, so that we can recognise what is difficult – I think we can agree on that – and then we can also see what is good. I think that serves as an encouragement to those who work hard. It is difficult to say that in February 2013, but I hope that in 2013 we will be able to see a progress towards balance in the budgets, including in the Capital Region, even though Health South-East is now also balancing. And I notice that at the board meeting in the OUS at the end of last year, there was a collection of both strategy, direction and budget. So the challenge is that this is a hospital with buildings back to 1905. I visited the shelter that had buildings from the 1850s; it was also some of the most beautiful buildings. But it's the building structure that is. You have to do the best you can with it. I believe that the process that is now taking place in terms of the idea phase for the future of the OYS is an exciting phase. In the meantime, towards a possible new vision of gathering around the Rikshospitale, improvements must be made along the way, and it must be planned. As far as ICT is concerned, I believe there has been significant progress. The investment budget for 2013 is good. Nearly one and a half billion will be invested in different upgrades, ranging from construction to ICT, to medical-technical equipment, and this was also recently recognised in the hospital. It is clear that the lack of ICT, together with construction that is not adapted to new operations and is also characterised by significant maintenance kits, has negatively affected the establishment. This is now in recovery, but a lot of work remains. Different funding systems and different management systems can be discussed, but no more money can be generated by changing the funding system or by changing the management system. Today, in my opinion, there is a system that ensures the possibility of large investments in Hospital-Norway. It is invested as never before in Hospital-Norway. It is even such that we have been able to allow ourselves a little anxiety that we are not now in a situation of overinvestment in relation to being able to serve this. But hospitals that balance quickly come in the phase that there is the opportunity to invest and invest. With regard to Ahus, I believe that temporary measures are a definition of measures a hospital meets to adapt to varying needs. Oftentimes may become more permanent over time. But I do not disagree that having a patient hotel that meets the needs of the hospital is important in planning. In any case, I have confidence that both the hospital administration and Health South-East can see that whole and use the resources that are in the region to make good decisions. I have been raised about how the management of both Aarhus and Health South-East in dialogue with the department has identified needs, addressed them and now implements measures both on homes, on beds and on emergency preparedness. Then we get to make sure that there are also solutions that provide lasting improvements in the hospital's operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3768	As the interpellant said, you sometimes get a sense of dacapo, and I do that a little bit now as well. We've discussed the OUS and Ahus problem several times. It has not been said that it is wrong to discuss it again, because hospitals are of the most complex structures we have in society, and it is our burden as politicians to control health through the structure you have. That's how the two hospitals we're talking about here, OYS and Ahus, together have 30,000 employees. You have to serve over 800,000 people, and you have a budget this year of just over 24 billion. kr. So it's clear that there are complicated structures, and there are quick questions about life and death in the debates. Conversion is known to be demanding in small structures, and it is definitely demanding in large structures, especially when conversions are to be made while normal operations are under way. When you started the process, you knew that this was difficult, you also knew that it was going to take time, and you predicted that there was going to be a lot of debate. I believe – to have said that – that much of the debate has been right. It has been seen in the course that things have not gone completely as planned, you have seen in the course that things have been more complicated than intended, and you have not succeeded with all the grips you should take and had planned for. An example of this is that when you moved patients and were going to take down the crew on the OYS, it was more complicated than you thought. People didn't apply for a job at Ahus, which caused problems, both at Ahus, in terms of skills, and at OUS, because they spent too much money. You didn't get the budget down well enough. So in such processes there are also many agendas. When the patient representative at Aarhus is concerned, there is reason to listen as a politician, but it has not been said that the patient representative is always right in itself, but he is, of course, obliged by his mandate to be concerned on behalf of the patients. Of course, when doctors are concerned about their situation, you have to listen, but it's not always obvious that doctors speak objectively in relation to the patient's situation. Sometimes you can also think that they speak for their own situation. And when management talks, you have to weigh what management says, up to all the other realities you get, and then as a politician, you have to find a balance between how to deal with the challenges that are described. And the media has known their own dynamics in things like that. What's most surprising to me in the two years you've been discussing this quite regularly in the Storting, is that when you start going into matter, in the actual, alleged relationships that come out in the media, it's very often not much left after our inspections have examined and examined. At least on this occasion, I will be allowed to say that in the light of the experience that has been done over two years, and where the supervision has been examined, I believe that the hospitals have been overly offensive in terms of getting out and explaining to patients that things are not as bad as you can get the impression of looking up. We heard yesterday at the hearing in the Health Committee about an episode in which a doctor could refer to a mother who had lost her son at Aarhus – a tragic story – and who had been walking around for two years and believed that it was due to a hospital loss. Then it turned out when she finally dared to address this problem to the doctor, that it was not at all the case. – And this because there had been a lot of noise around the hospital dumps at Ahus. So in a very difficult situation she had got an additional load over two years that should have been avoided. Of course, management has a responsibility, the media has an ethical responsibility, but we also have a responsibility not to overdramatize the situation. It is still the case that none of the inspections have revealed that the quality conditions are worse in the two hospitals we are now discussing than in the other hospitals in the country. And we're all concerned that the quality should be increased in all hospitals. We have a common interest from this pulpit, from all sides, that we want to promote quality. Then there will be heavy and perhaps difficult responsibilities: how will these challenges be addressed? As I see it, the answers the interpellant comes into its new policy, the opposite of help. It will only make the rate of change even higher and the situation even more difficult for public hospitals because they will then finance the construction of the private health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3785	The situation at Aarhus is closely linked to the situation at Oslo University Hospital. Demanding changes have taken place over several years, and over all these years, an overall opposition has made constructive proposals to help solve some of the challenges. In particular, I would like to make proposals for pauses in the process of conversion and large investments in ICT as important proposals in which the government has failed to meet us. The current Minister of Health has, rhetorically, demonstrated a greater understanding and sensitivity than his predecessor. Nevertheless, the major grips or changes that are most necessary have unfortunately not been made. You could say a lot about what has happened in the process up until now, but the most important thing is how we come out of a situation where patients are suffering from the lack of capacity that has arisen. For that is precisely what is important: the consideration of the patient, the safety and the dignity of the individual. Such patients sometimes experience the situation today, a welfare society is not worth it. If there is something that citizens of this country are rightly concerned about, it is just a safe, good and well-functioning health service when you need it. In addition to the patient’s experiences, it is also appropriate to mention the frustrating and difficult situation of employees. They are the ones standing in the middle of a demanding everyday life, while this has been discussed so far – without action. Is that something I'm sure of, it's that the employees want to do a good patient treatment. This possibility is temporarily limited in the current situation. The progress party is pleased that Aarhus has recently proposed new grips, such as the reconstruction of the patient hotel and new beds in Ski Hospital, but fears that this is not enough. The size of population growth in Oslo and Akershus is not excluded from the fact that overall capacity in the region is too small. This image is also reinforced by the fact that there have been 1,700 fewer beds in the hospitals during the red-green government. The progress party therefore believes that it is on the edge of irresponsible that Stensby Hospital is phased out at a time when the capacity is obviously too low. The Progress Party will therefore encourage the Council of State to ensure the maintenance of Stensby hospitals until alternative capacities are made available. Aker hospitals should also be reopened with bedholds to help increase their total capacity. Another important measure is massive investment in ICT and new, modern equipment that increases efficiency so that more can be addressed. This has been discussed for years, but we still have good results to see. The time for debate should be over. The government should now show action. The proposals of the Progress Party have been made available to them. It's just to initiate them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3808	I think it is a very serious and important question the interpellant raises, and I agree that it was necessary that the Minister of Health also came to the recognition that the process has been poorly planned and implemented. I think it's a very good starting point to be able to do something about the situation, because that's exactly what the Right and the other opposition parties – and not least the employees of both Aarhus and Oslo University Hospitals – have reported for a long time. There has been broad political agreement on the need for better coordination of specialist health services in the capital area in order to ensure better quality of treatment provision and to strengthen both research and education. The right has been particularly concerned that this process was carried out in a way that would ensure patient safety and the quality of healthcare provision and, in addition, ensure a good working environment for employees. That is why we have been critical of how the transitions have been planned and risk-assessed and how they have been implemented to date. We have also received many feedback from Stortinget that the pace of conversion has been too high. In some situations, both quality and patient safety have been compromised. That must be allowed to say, even if we're now going to look forward. I would like to stress that the vast majority of patients are satisfied with the treatment they receive, and we all know that the employees of both Oslo University Hospital and Aarhus are doing a fantastic job, despite the situation they are in. However, not everyone receives the treatment and care they require. It shows both surveillance reports, the Patient Indemnity Name and some headlines in the media. Nor have there been any shortage of warnings from the Medical Association, the Nursing Association, or many other trade unions, patients and relatives. Employees have been aware that this has been — and is still — very demanding and, in many cases, at the limit of the irresponsible. There have been too many unfortunate events, some unfortunately with fatal outcome. There has been a great deal of media attention around the hospitals about individual pisods that are quite outrageous. The county doctor concluded in his supervisory report that during periods the risk has been so high that it may have contributed to irresponsible operation. Ahus admits that they have had more patients than they really had room for, and the coating percentage has been over 100 in some periods. This has resulted in a high number of Corridor Asians, with the risks and disadvantages it has brought to patients and employees. So there has been a big gap between the reality experienced by employees and patients and the situation described by several health ministers here in Stortinget. That must also be mentioned. I think it is good – and absolutely necessary – that Aarhus has now received funds from Health South-East to eight new medical positions. At the same time, Ahus has decided to extend his emergency reception and also to convert the patient hotel into a hospital. This could alleviate the situation, but we have to admit that these are temporary solutions and that there are still major challenges. It was recently known that the county of Oslo and Akershus set up oversight proceedings against Aarhus after receiving an anonymous notice of concern from employees. Several doctors and nurses have also quit their jobs because of this pressing situation at the hospital. I think that is worrying. There is now a comprehensive plan for hospital administration. But the question is whether it is sufficiently quality assured to meet the major challenges now facing the hospital. I feel that the situation at Aarhus in particular is both inconspicuous and demanding. I think it is good that they now use the beds at Ski Hospital. It is a good hospital that will provide good treatment and care. However, I allow myself to wonder that the board in Aarhus has chosen to close Stensby Hospital from 1 April when they still have so much lack of bed capacity and employees. Of course, patients cannot receive the same treatment at Stensby as at Ahus. To that end, Stensby does not have sufficient medical resources, but I would think that in this situation there could be a relief for some patient groups until the capacity of both Aarhus and Ski has been expanded. It is now important to create a common understanding of both the challenges and the possibilities of the transition process, and not least that the Minister of Health takes on the responsibility he actually has.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3831	Few conversions in the specialist services have created as much criticism and have been as much debated in the Storting as the capital process. Then there has also been a great change of pace involving many patients and adding, and the conversion has not been unproblematic. It's easy to follow when it's true whether it was right to merge Health South and Health East and to merge hospitals in the Oslo area. However, there was considerable political consensus that action was needed to ensure better coordination of hospital provision in the capital area and more equal distribution of hospital provision across the whole of Health South-East and in the rest of the country. It is right that more people in retrospect have admitted that the establishment of Oslo University Hospital and the transfer of patients to new Ahus were too bad a premise. I think that one thing we can learn from the case is the tendency we have to overestimate the efficiency gain and underestimate the investment need for mergers, and that mergers are one of the most difficult things we do in all organizations – and especially in a hospital organisation. I want to show you what a hospital expert and researcher named Soki Choi said in the newspaper on December 18th last year: Research showed that three out of four hospital mergers in Sweden were classified as a failure. She called for more research and knowledge-based decisions on mergers. The interpellant asks what the government will do to restore security and trust in Oslo University Hospital and Aarhus, and he points out in his article what ownership is like today. I think that the Minister of Health and Health has given a very clear and good answer to how this is being followed up by the government now: that creating trust is a leadership task is important to stress, that we need to have confidence in the board and the leadership of Oslo University Hospital, that they create good processes further. The direction of this is good leaders. I would like to mention that it cannot be a disadvantage in this situation that the director of Oslo University Hospital, Stener Kvinnsland, was assigned to this year's Health Leader in 2013. He was nominated by his own – by his added ones. This indicates that at least one person has the right person to do a not entirely simple job. One thing I would like to mention in conclusion is – as the Minister for Health was at the moment – also having to do with rent. To improve the rental was one of the points he made in his hospital address. I want to deepen this to apply to local rental. I know one thing just from Oslo University Hospital when the conversion process was most critical, in 2011. At the time, one of Oslo University Hospitals had city leases in only 18 out of 59 somatic departments, i.e. in seven out of ten departments had a leader who was totally or partially absent. According to the Norwegian Medical Association, it was added there that had never met its own tenant. This is what's now taking hold of. I understand that Oslo University Hospital is now working to increase its rental presence in all the places they operate hospitals. I think that is an important commitment to getting the conversion process in port, and especially to getting a good relationship with those added, which is so important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3846	I also want to thank the representative Bent Höie for this important interpellation. It's a serious situation that's been at Oslo University Hospital and Ahus. It is important that we also take these debates here in the storeroom. So we could take a discussion if this is a dacapo discussion. I think that even Dakapo discussions are good if they lead to changes, that you take lessons and then go on. It's easy to be a back clock. However, I must point out that more from the opposition, including several from my own party, were in doubt as to whether there was enough capacity and staff to transfer 160,000 patients to Aarhus. The representative Dagfinn Højbrätten asked questions about the manning situation last autumn 2011, when a total of 1000 annual works were laid down at Oslo University Hospital. The positions were laid down despite the protests of trust-elects, and the hospital director Siri Hatlen chose to leave because she did not believe that it was possible to submit a saving plan within the limits applicable to the board of Oslo University Hospital. In reply to the representative, Højbrätten, the State Council, Stroem-Erichsen, said: ‘Health South-East RHF has assured me that patients throughout the capital area should be provided with sound health care in connection with the transfer of the patient base from OYS to Ahus.’ The Councils of State concluded as follows: ‘The people of the capital can therefore be confident that they have access to sound and good services.’ Gradually, we have shown that this has not voted for all patients. The operations at Aarhus have been documented by the Health Inspectorate to be irresponsible for 9 of 12 months in 2011. In January 2011, a total of 550 doctors, nurses and other health professionals were missing. It has been found that two patients have died because of the conditions of Ahus. In addition, a further 13 deaths at Aarhus were identified as unnatural and have been investigated. In addition, 87 claims have been registered from Norwegian patients’ compensation after injuries at Aarhus in 2011. The representative Hans Olav Syversen has asked whether it is true that the State Council of Ström-Erichsen received concerns about the lack of professional and human safety prior to the transfer from Oslo University Hospital to Aarhus. The council replied that there had always been a known risk in the project. Problems with ICT systems, too few bed places and many Corridor Asians are other problem areas that hamper the work and patient treatment of OUS and Ahus. Shouldn't you be in the best hands when you get into a hospital? Should it really be necessary for this matter to be dealt with in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs in order to ensure the proper treatment of patients at OUS and Ahus? The government audit report in the autumn supports the opposition's concern. Yeah, we'll see ahead. Looking ahead, we need to have a hospital structure where employees feel that they are being taken seriously when they report critical issues. What doesn't work needs to be corrected immediately. It has to be better managed. Patients and relatives need to be provided with good information, both on adverse events and on consequences, complaints and further rights. The Christian People's Party believes that individual employees should be required to report injuries, near-accidents and accidents, not just the institution. We believe that special police competences need to be built up to investigate matters in the health sector, and that a Commission for Health Investigations should be set up. In ICT, we have major challenges, not only in the capital process, but also here. It is important that we all feel confident that the day we ourselves or some of our closest friends are in need of health care, we are cared for in a decent and professionally sound manner. For us in the Christian People's Party – and I really believe for everyone in the political environment – this is about what we put into the very concept of human dignity, that we get a treatment that works and that is just the day we need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3881	The situation at Aarhus and Oslo University Hospital is something that has occupied a lot. There's been a lot of attention. It may also be because the national press is most concerned about what is going on here — not to underestimate what has actually been the situation, but still. I think first of all of the employees, of the patients and the relatives. The employees are in a demanding process. At the same time, they experience pressures from patients and relatives, who in turn only demand what they have the right to – good health care. Large conversion processes are demanding and will rarely go completely without a staple. I believe that the conversions have been quite correct and necessary. But it has to be allowed to say that maybe a lot happened in a short time, and that's what makes you get the situation that we've seen happening. There is a lesson to be learned in the future, both in the health sector and in other sectors. Conversions take time to get settled. You have to hurry slowly to put things in the right order. So is my impression as an Akershus politician that a lot has gone well, and a lot is going well. It's not always as easy to communicate. Then we can discuss what has happened, and in a way take the debate dakapo. I am more concerned with the present, present, and what is actually being done to improve the situation. I feel the Council of State gave a good answer to the interpellant's challenges. With recent decisions in the board and the management of Ahus on increased bed capacity, increased staffing and increased emergency reception both by using parts of the patient hotel and using beds in Ski hospitals, important and necessary steps have been taken. You had to grab some grips. It was good that the management and the board also realized that. It's about a better everyday life for the employees and the patient's safety – the people behind the processes that are going on. On Ski you have it as once was a full-fledged local hospital, with free capacity. It's good that now Ahus will use this building mass to improve the conditions. When Ski Hospital was formerly under Aker, the offer of Ski was reduced to day surgery and palliative unit. Fortunately, Aarhus sees that the hospital can be used. At the same time, I know that the Follo municipalities have already sent in a wish to rent beds at Ski Hospital to a local medical centre, and the possibilities are there for them to take over these beds if Aarhus no longer needs them on Ski. Ahus is facing the same challenge as the one I work with most in the usual way, like transport policies. Oslo and Akershus will grow most in the country in the years that come, the Roman region perhaps the most. This means that Ahus does not just have to solve the challenges they are facing now; it also has to be planned for how to solve them in the long term. It is already necessary to plan how to deal with a situation in 15 years’ time, with many more patients in the reception area. Adjusting the recording range is discussed, but it does not help much in the longer term if, for example: Sdr. Follo goes to the new hospital at Kalnes in Eastfold. The approximately 15,000 correspond to the total annual expected population growth in the catchment area of Aarhus, so after a few years, that effect will be gone. That is why it must be planned for the future now. I assume that the management and board of Aarhus and the Health South-East are aware of these challenges, and can make qualified choices about what it takes to meet population growth, and that this is a problem also the management of the Ministry of Health and Care will follow closely, so that we can provide sufficient capacity in the long term. Finally, there's always a lot of focus on the negative. It is important to pay attention to it in order to make improvements. But it is also important to say that Ahus is a good hospital that is best in many areas of the country, as in certain types of cancer. Not least, there is the fastest response to pathology, which is important in diagnosing cancer. It is Norway's largest emergency hospital, and emergency treatment is good. Now the emergency reception is also to be extended. The hospital is in charge of the transition to day surgery. Two thirds of the surgery is now in day surgery. It is also a good example that bed places alone are not a sufficient measure of capacity. The staff at Ahus do a good job and deserve credit for it. It's important to bring this with us, so that not all the focus is on what doesn't work. The positive things are also good to bring with you when you're going to solve the challenges you're facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3900	Sometimes it doesn't feel right to say what I said. Insecurity is a subjective experience. Some people get a sense of insecurity, others may not at all. Now it is my opinion that many people have the same feeling that there is reason to be sure that we have the best possible hospital offer in Oslo and the Akershus region. I don't want to overdramatize. I agree with the Council of State that we should not. But people are worried, the Riks revision is worried, the patient representative is worried, and we've heard that the employees are worried. On 1 January 2011, Aarhus was given responsibility for 160,000 new patients, including: from the Follo region and is now Norway’s largest emergency hospital. A total of 470,000 people are now in attendance at this hospital. Already in the autumn of 2010 the Minister of Health and Health Ström-Erichsen asked if she could assure that there were enough professionals in place at Aarhus when the hospital was to take over the population of Follo. As we heard from the representative of Breen today, there was reason to ask about that. The council then replied that no patients should be moved from one hospital to another until one was sure that they were guaranteed an equally good or better offer. The ‘light of history’ has spoken, and it speaks for itself. As the interpellant has pointed out, patients are now required to know that we have a health and care minister who addresses these challenges, and restores confidence that our region has a safe and good hospital offer, where no patients should have to experience that they do not get the right offer when they need it, and no relatives should have to experience that their loved ones die in a corridor. The staff at Ahus and Oslo University Hospital have had a rough time. I have no doubt that they have gone far to give patients a good and sound offer since the big conversion came into force. The region we're talking about is growing big. Now the number of nurses comes nagging after. Luckily, the number of doctors needed by the hospital has now also been addressed by the Minister of Health. Not only the population is concerned. The last time I took part in a debate on this, in 2011, I told them that the employees at Aarhus – then also – had written a letter of concern, pointing out a high number of corridors, a high workload and a lack of motivation for the employees. They thought that there were no 70-100 bed places at the hospital, and that this affected patient safety. There were extra measures put in place at the time. There is at all a lot of ‘on-off’ in the hospital offer in our region: Stensby down, Ski down, Ski up 10 places in 2011, then down again, and now 32 new places on Ski. This is quite demanding for the municipalities around, and I am concerned about the dialogue with the municipalities about the interaction reform. It has helped health companies well by the fact that municipalities and urban areas have had the capacity to accept more outpatients faster than expected. And then new local medical beds are planned: in Follo there has been a planning work for 25 acute daily places. They were to be added to the unused facilities at Ski Hospital. It was confirmed by the Follo municipalities not later than one week ago. But on Monday, I think it was, it was told that it was impossible. And we understand that, because we now know that Ski hospitals are going to escalate the use of the beds themselves. This means that the Follo municipalities are not allowed to submit the application for support to this local medical centre by 1 March, which is the deadline, because now the Follo municipalities do not know where this hospital centre with its daily beds is to be located. It's a difficult situation, and it's my concern that it's like selling knits in meters, and that it's aged against the municipalities, which are actually supposed to be the health companies' partners in the interaction reform. I expect the Council of State will also have a vigilance on this particular challenge for the municipalities in the region of Ahus.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3917	I would like to thank you for a good discussion. Several people have referred to the Dakapo in the discussion, and it is correct that this matter has been discussed in Stortinget several times. It is interesting to see, then, that when the Riksrevision in its report questions whether the government has informed and involved enough Stortinget in this process, the Ministry of Health and Welfare points to a number of issues in which the Stortinget has been involved, and it is almost exclusively about the opposition initiative that the Stortinget should be briefed on the situation. These are questions, interviews and enquiries about presentations. If the opposition had not taken that kind of initiative, this conversion in Norwegian health care, which I believe is the biggest change ever made in Norwegian health care – which then affects employees and patients directly – was hardly mentioned in the annual budgets. That is why I agree when the Council of State and others point out that there have been major changes in other health companies too, but I believe that this change that has taken place in Health South-East, linked to the capital process, is nevertheless in a special position to the extent that it affects patients and employees as directly as possible. The story, and the follow-up to the Riksaudition report, of course, we're going to come back to it. The Minister of Health and Welfare answered some questions on which there is a political disagreement. One of the themes was the issue of the organisation of the health care system – the management system. It's an interesting discussion when you look at this process. I believe that there is reason to ask questions about the extent to which the boards of Aarhus and Oslo University Hospitals have had the ability to be clear as to whether or not the framework conditions they had for this conversion were in place. I believe that today's organisation, with regional health companies where one had employees directors sitting on the boards, undermined the ability of the boards to be the real managers of the business. With the Right Steering Model – where one had not had this intermediate level, but where the boards of Aarhus and Oslo University Hospital had been the real governing bodies – I doubt that the rulers had been willing to enter into these major changes without having informed the owner that the framework conditions were not in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3926	It has been possible to hear a review of the situation before 2012 – and 2011 and 2010, for that matter. I think it's okay as a background steppe. I just want to stress that these are questions that this room has debated extensively before my time. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has looked at this — but it may now be. I think we should recognize that running hospitals is perhaps the most complex part of operating in the public sector – large, complex organisations with technology, with people in the most fragile stages of life and with many groups of skilled professionals. I see it as my task to address the challenges, working to solve all the issues where we have the opportunity to do so, but at the same time put things in perspective. About 85 pst. they are satisfied or very satisfied with our hospitals. While it was storming about Ahus, they had a percentage of over 80. I'm not saying this to give some political leadership commendation, but to give praise to those who work at this hospital. The patients who have been there have – as many have stressed here – left the hospital satisfied. I'd like to take that with me. Then we'll be careful with words. The countyman has said that Ahus was driven at high risk, but I cannot stand here and say that life has been lost as a result of this process, as some – in border countries – have stated. That is why I believe that we have to base ourselves on the fact that we have health oversight. And we have County to evaluate these issues and carry out supervision when necessary. I have to listen to these. When I got a warning from, among other things. The doctors at Ahus, I called the two inspections – at least I wanted to hear and assure myself of the kind of supervision they were running, to be sure that this was followed up well. I believe that we must have confidence in governance and management at Oslo University Hospital and at Aarhus. If you don't have trust, you have to do something about it. We have confidence. I have assured myself that they are now working on a planned basis – both with capacity and with the economy. Had we had time, I would have liked to have read out the whole list of what's happening to exciting professional, medical and organisational things at these two amazingly beautiful hospitals, which I think are appointing in Europe as leading technological hospitals with great medical performance. Management is important. We'll deal with it at the general level and down at the clinic level. As was also said here in the past, the management functions of Oslo University Hospital are now being reviewed, with clear intention of giving local management powers at the necessary levels. There's a lot to do here. We can be sure that this is a sector in continuous conversion. As the representative Kjernli said, this is an area where people move. That means we have to make good use of the capacity. There were questions about Ski Hospital. What can it house — support for Ahus or the local medical centre of the Follo region? The last thing I heard was that maybe the hospital can serve both. This is in a discussion phase. We're going to hope it's well cared for, so it can get a good outcome.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3945	The debate on substance is closed. 14 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3959	No one has asked for the floor. There will be a call to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3967	The size should vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3987	Case No. 2, the foreign policy statement of the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already been adopted for consideration in a subsequent meeting of the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e3995	During the debate, an Arne Sortevik proposal was put forward on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size approves the extension of rv. 4 on the route Lunner border – The Jar and Lygna south of Uppland as mentioned in Prop. [[2012-2013]] 50 S Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Party of Progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4025	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size approves the expansion phase of E6 between Ringebu and Otta – the Frya-Sjoa route – in Uppland as mentioned in Prop. [[2012-2013]] 51 S Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case as soon as possible for changing road standards where the development of Europe’s roads and major highways is based on roads with at least four fields and 20 metres in width, mid-distance and speed of at least 90 km/h.’ Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4064	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mr Rommetveit on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:22 S [[2012-2013]] An alternative is to vote between the Committee's suspension and the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4085	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4098	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4106	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward by Tone Merete Sønsterud on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:19 S [[2012-2013]] An alternative is to vote between the Committee's suspension and the proposal of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4119	The left has notified that they will support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4132	In Case No: No voting theme is available for 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4140	A total of four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party 3 and 4, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3 and 4 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to promote the necessary legislative proposals, by the end of May 2013, to automatically grant care to dependants with very seriously ill children through the presentation of a health statement and recommendation by a medical specialist on the concept of ‘lasting instability’ to be removed from the statutory entitlement to care even if the child can participate in kindergarten, school or school leisure arrangements during periods of time. [[SFO]] ‘The government is asking for a wide range of professional and independent samples to be submitted to the relevant diagnostics. An up-to-date review is requested for the Grand Duchy by July 2013.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4184	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to the legislation on care allowance for seriously ill children who need 24 hours a day, when it is best for the child that the parents themselves care for the child at home. The basis of care allowance shall be provided independently of diagnosis and on the basis of the state of the individual child, even if the disease lasts for more than two years.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4201	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that care be given to parents in the context of intensive child treatment and rehabilitation. The proposal should be promoted as part of a major switch to the care scheme.’.» The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4234	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No 1, by Vigdis Giltun on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 2, from Sylvi Graham on behalf of the Right There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote a stepping-up plan, in the context of the presentation of the State budget for 2014, in order to ensure a better right to education and work for those with development. It is further requested that such an action plan should address the following issues: The provision of training for people with disabilities, adapted to the individual’s abilities and facilities. The establishment of an individual plan for each 2 years before the end of primary school. This is in order to ensure the transition from primary to secondary education and from higher education to working life. The establishment of a mentoring system to facilitate transition from school to work. Ensuring effective assessment of the performance of people with developmental disabilities. The presentation of proposals for changes that will contribute to better coordination between the different administrative units and the training field. Clearing the responsibilities and the need for resources and funding to meet the real opportunities of those with disabilities for proper education and participation in the labour market. A stepping-up plan to achieve within three years the target of 2500 more sites for action in permanent work [[VTA]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4282	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 2 from the right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote a stepping-up plan, in the context of the presentation of the State budget for 2014, in order to ensure a better right of education and work for those with development.’ The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have announced subsidiary support for the proposal, and the Left has also announced that they support the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4310	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Jon Jäger Gåsvatn on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a new carbon strategy as an update of the National Coal Strategy 2006-2011.’ Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4339	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bent Höie on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 2 and 3, from Line Henriette Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to propose to amend the sixth paragraph of Section 2 of Law No 13 June 1975. 50 in case of abortion to the following: abortion after week 18 may not be carried out unless there is an imminent risk to the mother's life or health or the foetus has a condition incompatible with life, so that it will never be able to survive outside the womb.» [[abort laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4363	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to propose that § 2 (c) be removed from the 1975 abortion law of the day.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4378	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose amendments to Section 2 of the Abortion Act, which implies that the characteristics of the foetus should not be an independent abortion criterion beyond the limits of self-determined abortion. Conditions incompatible with life shall in themselves provide the basis for abortion.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4407	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4416	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-12.ana.ud1094e4494	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
