ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e30	The called alternate of the Akershu County, Harek Riveres, has taken the seat. From the representative Dagfinn Høybråten, an application for leave is made on 24 and 25 January to attend the meeting of the Management Board of the GAVI vaccine fund in Davos, Switzerland. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The sales representative, Kjell Arvid Svendsen, is hereby invited to meet on Thursday 24 January.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e53	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that case no. 3, Address by the Prime Minister on the terrorist attack in Algeria, starts at 2.30 p.m. 13:00.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e65	On Monday the Stortinge received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Liv Signe Navarsete, Kristin Halvorsen and Inga Marte Thorkildsen will meet for oral Question Time. The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative, Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e72	My question goes to the State Council Halvorsen. Higher Norwegian educational institutions shall be an arena for the development of science, the dissemination of knowledge, the stimulation of informed societal debate, support below universal values, for example. equality between women and men and freedom of religion. Nevertheless, we see that radical Islamists on several occasions have been given the opportunity to spread their extreme and deeply reactionary ideas at Norwegian educational institutions. One of these is the preacher and Islamist Haitham al-Haddad, who on several occasions has used the premises of the University of Oslo and Akershus to give lectures. Al-Haddad is known for spreading Jewish hatred, homosexuality, he argues for the death penalty for people who leave Islam, and he does not want to defeat violence against women. Among many eye-catching opinions, al-Hadadd has said the following: "I will tell you the truth about the struggle between us and Jews who are enemies of God, and the descendants of apecats and pigs." He also said: ‘A man should not be asked why he beats his wife. Leave them alone." Researcher Lars Gule at the University of Oslo and Akershus believes that there is no doubt that al-Hadadd is extreme: ‘He represents a reactionary understanding of Islam. I can then mention his view of women, his view of homosexuals, his view of the identity of Muslims and the role of society, among other things. the death penalty for non-compliance. His views are worse than those of the Middle Ages, says Lars Gule to the NRK." Al-Hadadd has been rejected in several places in Europe for holding posts, including: at the London School of Economics and at universities in the Netherlands. Is the Council of State comfortable with the use of Norwegian learning institutions to preach its message by Islamist speakers with these kinds of attitudes?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e96	There is no doubt that this person referred to by Tord Lien comes up with claims and statements that are not just contrary to Norwegian law, but that can be seen as threats to Norwegian citizens, and that are completely contrary to the norms and values that we stand for in Norwegian society. I don't know why the University of Oslo and Akershus have given this person a pulpit, but I know that my colleagues, both the Council of State Inga Marte Thorkildsen and others, representatives from Stortinget, have strongly encouraged the college not to do so. There are good reasons for that. Of course, we have freedom of speech in the country, and it's allowed to make claims that are expressed here, but I would definitely say that colleges and others that can be arenas for open meetings need to think very carefully about. I share the view that Inga Marte Thorkildsen and Audun Lysbakken have expressed in this case, that this is a person who should not get a pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e101	I am so pleased with parts of that answer. The party leader of the council, Audun Lysbakken, has said that what this man stands for is "a cocktail of medieval and 50-digit values. He stands for a view of the death penalty that is extreme and terrible." Then I am happy that we have freedom of expression in Norway – we should cultivate that. I am very much in doubt about statements that Jews are descendants of apecats, within what is protected by freedom of expression in Norway. It is clear that higher education institutions have a role to play in contributing to a social debate, but their task is to participate and contribute to an informed societal debate. In some of these cases the media have not even been present, and the big community has no control over what is being said. Then I think it must be allowed to ask the Council of State to now be clear that what the University of Oslo and Akershus have done here is not acceptable within the framework of academia and higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e108	I'm going to check, of course, what is the law about this, but I think that from this pulpit I have to limit myself to a strong call for those educational institutions that can get access to, for example, the media. renting out premises for these kinds of extremes, who want to preach a message that is not only abominable and contrary to our values, but that can also, as Tord Lien is inside, be illegal in relation to Norwegian law. I also react strongly to the fact that you want to have this kind of meeting closed, because then you can strongly suspect that it is because there are messages there that can be even more extreme than what you have seen so far. So what I can do with this is to deal with the educational institutions, to ask you to be very reflective about who you're borrowing out a pulpit or a room for, and that this kind of extremist doesn't have a pulpit in Norwegian educational places.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e113	Two follow-up questions have been asked and given rise to – first the representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e116	Norwegian universities and colleges are based on a very long European academic tradition dating back to Roman times, where the message to students has been equivalency, tolerance, closeness, respect for others, and not least the focus on human rights. What I think the Council of State should be clear about is that these are people who do not allow other freedom of expression and who react to the values and the way of life that we have. I think that the Council of State here should be very clear to the educational institutions, use its ability to send circulars and other directives and say clearly that this is not acceptable. Norwegian educational institutions shall not be used to spread hatred and intolerance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e121	In this situation, we're probably even past the question of hate and intolerance. We are also where we can talk about opinions and threats to people and groups in Norway that are prohibited by Norwegian law, so I would say that the situation can be even more serious than the representative of Kielland Asmyhr makes this point. It is such that all educational institutions are autonomous, they decide their own policies, how they are designed. But I can make a very strong call for people who spread a message that is deeply reactionary, intolerant or contrary to Norwegian law, not to be allowed to speak in Norwegian universities and colleges, and I will do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e126	Svein Harberg – to the next and last follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e129	Freedom of expression is demanding, and it requires knowledge of us to deal with it. The government has promised a continuous assessment of measures against radicalisation and extremism. Our higher education institutions carry out a lot of research-based knowledge dissemination, and can also contribute to this. Such work will both raise the awareness of students and give society valuable knowledge. We have not seen any action in the last two budgets to lift this up as part of the higher education business, and we wonder: will the Council now raise the fight against radicalisation of extremism more clearly than one of the efforts in higher education?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e137	We have at several educational sites environments and researchers who are just concerned about this, and who have a lot of knowledge about it. But I'm absolutely sure there may be a need for more, and that these are challenges that can be quite demanding for us in the years to come, which means that we need more knowledge. I just want to say one thing, there's one discussion about freedom of expression and one discussion about tolerance. I have full confidence that those who are part of the Norwegian Academy and students are on the rise and can take up protests against these kinds of attitudes and opinions. But what we're talking about here are statements and threats that go beyond that, and then we can also assume that these are statements that could be contrary to Norwegian law. I will follow closely what kind of capacity we have in terms of knowledge-building in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e146	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e149	My question is addressed to the Navarsete State Council. KS, the community sector organisation, has demonstrated with a spectacularly high response rate from the municipalities that state objections are a major problem for spatial planning and that it slows down and stops the production of housing in the country. Administrative lawyers have pointed out that objections are used by so many government offices that it must be noted that objections are also raised in large numbers, without the assumption of the plan law that objection was an exception, an exception which would be used only in cases where significant regional or state interests were at stake. Instead, a practice has developed in which state officials exercise their personal discretion without special role understanding or respect for local elected bodies. In addition, a practice has developed, probably, where the opposition body knows that it has a thin basis for notifying that objections will be raised. Including these threats of opposition, 137 out of 140 municipalities that revised their municipal plans in the years 2007–2010 state that objections were raised. The effect is the same: planning stops both for housing and business. Some have hoped that the county authorities could coordinate and prioritise the State interests. It doesn't work either. In Oslo you have gone the opposite way, for example. by delegating the review to the intermediate level. When the Ministerial Council of Navarsets publicly announces at a conference in Tekna that this policy will mainly be pursued in the forthcoming Housing Communication, my challenge will be to the Council of State: does the Council of State not see a strong need to revise the use of objections? And doesn't she see that by not doing that and not doing anything, you won't get enough housing in this country regulated?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e162	In the housing message submitted by the government to the Stortinget, it was announced that we would have a review of the counterinstitution and a coordination of the state budgets’ possibilities to countersign. That work is in no way stopped, that work is in progress. It's not my department that's responsible for it, it's the Ministry of the Environment, but my department and I are the drivers of that process. It also turns out, not least in KS's investigation, that in many cases the contradiction is that a person comes with a counter-sign – that government etats do not participate actively enough in the planning process itself, but are waiting for a person to get far out of the process, and then uses the one you've come with to get on the path too late. It is also an element of the ongoing process for which the Minister for the Environment is responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e169	In this there was no hope of improvement. We have heard this mantra ‘review’, but this ‘review’, which is often also advertised as being comprehensive, does not lead to new policies. We have obtained from our friends in the municipalities an overview of the thousands of dwellings that have been put on hold because the bureaucracy is prepared to say no and not to fight a higher degree of land preparation for homes and businesses. This puts the whole development of society on hold. We can't afford that. I would recommend to the Council of State to get more ‘yes’ in the department, more propellants, and no more opponents against housing production. This fact that the Council of Ministers has run ahead and announced that there will be no innovation in this area is discouraging for anyone who hopes to get housing projects through this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e178	I wasn't at the Tekna conference, so I can't vouch for what's been said there. But it must be a misinterpretation if the ministerial council in my department is perceived to be a matter on which there is no work, because it is. There's work in the area. There must be coordination, I think that is the most important thing. When I talk to spokesmen around their planning processes, it's often not about contradictions in themselves, but there's a lot of instances that can partly come up with conflicting considerations. We have also sent a letter from the government to the statesmen saying that building should have a preference in those assessments, because it would be contradictory. Whatever the legislation, there will be a variety of concerns to be addressed in a democracy when planning processes are to be decided. But building should have a higher preference than it's ever had before.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e183	Three follow-up questions have been asked and given rise – first Trond Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e186	On Lierstranda in Lier, a fjord town with up to 20,000 new inhabitants is planned. Lier had his proposal for a municipal plan in 2009 – and then the objections came. Most of the objections have been cleared away, agreement has been reached with the neighbouring municipality of Drammen, but five objections remain pending in the Ministry of the Environment, which received these objections at its table at the beginning of 2011. The ministry was on tour in the summer of 2011, and the municipality is still waiting for answers, one and a half years after. The municipal plan has not been adopted and housing to 20,000 inhabitants is pending. Would it have been an idea that the Right has proposed several times in this room, that the entire law of the plan and the building remain in the Ministry of Local Affairs, so that we can get speed on the housing construction here in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e193	These questions have been raised several times in this Chamber, and my answer today is as it has been: the government's internal organization is a government theme. What is important is that we now present a housing message that has a holistic housing policy – from plan to plan to live for all groups, have the opportunity to get a living that one can live well in. That's what the government intends to do, and then one can view the organization both in part and separately. But I didn't think it was a theme from Stortingen's pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e200	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e203	Now, contradictions create challenges all over the country, but in some parts of the country there are greater challenges than in others. For example, in Hordaland, the county has far more contradictions than the state of Sogn and Fjordne. Then the question is how can it be, because the law is the same. The problems are also largely the same, with coastal zone problems and things like that. The question is why there are so many more contradictions in Hordaland than in Sogn and Fjordane. Does it matter that the county office in Hordaland is more in the mound than one is in Sogn and Fjordane? Or is it that the inhabitants of Sogn and Fjordne are perhaps easier to do and are more sensible than the horde valleyings are? I wonder if the Council of State could think about how it might be that there are so many differences between two states that are quite similar.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e209	State councils are given the opportunity to comment within their constitutional responsibilities. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e212	When it comes to the mindiness of the Sogn and the Fjords, there is a growing rumor that there are people from there who are not very smart, but they may be a little overly exaggerated. [[Laughter]] I think the important thing is that one of the county councils has a good dialogue with the municipalities in the planning processes, and there I know best Sogn and Fjordane, because I have also been a local and regional government for a long time there. It can be a role model for others. I would like to boast a bit of the County Council of Sogn and Fjordne, who have been very capable of being dialogue partners, counsellors and conversation partners, so that one might get into the processes at an early stage. I think it's an important keyword. I'm not going to comment on other government councils' areas, but in general I think it's incredibly important that all parties get into the process early, and that one finds out what the problem areas are and can be able to clarify it early, instead of dragging it out in time, which might have been the case many places.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e221	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e224	In this case, there are actually two important principles that go a little bit against each other: the principle of subsidiarity, which is that we want the decision to be made at the lowest possible level and thus allow the municipalities to determine as much as possible, and the responsibility of the administrator, which is that we have some national values that we want to take care of, for example. Soil protection, natural disasters, universality, etc. It also means that there is an intersection in these kinds of cases, and therefore the opposition institute is important. But it's the practice that's the challenge, and the municipalities had their own investigation where they pointed out that it's just the practice that's challenging, while the institute has good legitimacy in the municipalities. As I see it now, she is clear that she really wants to look at the practice and the good examples. Can the Council of State confirm the need for stricter practices, so that there will be fewer, but more correct, objections, which could lead to faster housing and perhaps even more legitimacy around the scheme around the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e233	I don't feel anyone's taking the floor to abolish the counterinstitution. As the representative Ropstad says, it has legitimacy and takes care of very important values in Norwegian society. They're sometimes facing each other, and that's what's obviously frustrating the municipalities, when one from different agencies gets in and out of the ground-breaking contradictions that collide. That is why it is important – as I also said in my previous reply – that we should all get on the ground early, so that we can have stronger coordination, as my colleague in the Ministry of Environment has also said, and that we obviously focus on having the same treatment. It is an important principle in the Norwegian state of law that all should have the same rights and opportunities. I know that my colleague in the Ministry of Environment is also very busy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e238	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e241	My question goes to the Minister of the Child. Over the past few weeks, large parts of the Norwegian people have been heavily affected by watching program series such as ‘Who do you think you are?’ and ‘Tore on track’. In both cases, viewers have come up to one million. Both series deal with the need for answers to key questions such as ‘Where do I come from?’, ‘Who am I?’ and ‘Who am I related to?’ – questions about belonging and identity. The presence of NRKs in the context of ‘Tore on the Track’ and the number of contacts with the Salvation Army and others that contribute to the revitalisation of these stories suggest that this is a fundamental need for a large number of people. At the same time, the government is currently examining the evaluation of the Biotechnology Act. This is the responsibility of the Minister of Health, but it could also affect the Law on the Rights of the Child, and it does not in particular affect Article 7 of the Convention on the Rights to Know Their Biological Origin. Both the Workers' Party and SV have taken their stand for egg donation, assisted fertilization for lonely and, in fact, also to make children by combining egg donation and sperm donation. It goes without saying that these matters go right into this field of tension that touches people's lives as deeply as what we get insight into in these programs and which well have no power to be unaffected by. Neither are all those who have been adopted or who have been made in other ways that they do not know their origins, who need answers to these questions. It has to be respected, but we still get an insight into how deeply and fundamentally these issues of kin, family and identity affect people's lives. The question to the Minister for Children is, What does the Minister for Children think about these questions? How important is it for people to have answers to these kinds of questions? As a society, how should we facilitate people to live with the certainty and knowledge of themselves that they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e260	Thank you for the question. I think it's right, as the representative Håbreek says, that most of us need to go back and know about our origins, and maybe this interest gets bigger the older you get. But we also see that there are people who do not have that need. We've grounded the Children's Convention and been committed to having children's right to know. We have also ensured that through the law we have in this respect, for example. the question of sperm donation. The same thing we have, on the SV side, put in place as a prerequisite for the issue of egg donation, which we have not dealt with, and which is not under my constitutional responsibility, but of course affects my responsibility as Minister for Children. The prerequisites are that you should have the right to know both how you've become and who your biological origin is. There are many reasons why this is important, but for children it is a fundamental right to receive information, and it is important that children are informed. It is also about knowing more about genetics, etc., which can also have an impact on human health, as medical developments progress. Just that question also asks us many dilemmas, which require more than one answer in one question hour. I think at least that the starting point is that children need information, and that most adults need to know something about their origins, but there are also people who don't need it. The most important thing is that children get good caregivers around them, and there is a discussion we take in its full width associated with, among other things. new child protection notice and the proposal on child protection which we are about to submit.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e271	I thank you for your answer. I see that the Council of State is concerned with formal rights in the context of the Biotechnology Act, and you refer to a right to know an identity when you're 18 years old. Does the Minister for the Child consider that the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child can be complied with at the end of childhood? That's what happens when you're 18 years old. We also have to remember that that right is just the right to know an identity through a register. It goes without saying that it's probably just the toughest people who accept and seek a register, and then make contact with a person, without knowing what kind of reaction you get. The policy that the government has set up often means that you need to go abroad to find someone after contacting the register. The question is again: what does the Minister for Children think about the identity issues that are made visible through these series and the meaning of it, and not just getting a name in a register?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e280	There are almost philosophical questions that the representative Hope travels here. It's a little difficult to answer those problems in 1 minute. I think it's right that most people need to know something about their origins, and we've based that right on law. That is why we are also concerned about reaching, for example: People travel abroad — we also advise against it in the question of surrogati, which has been a topic on which the representative Hope has been concerned for a long time — and it is one of the challenges that can create problems for the child later, by not knowing them. In many of these countries, it is also a prerequisite that no further information on the biological origin of the child is provided. There is one of several issues that makes us advise the Nordics not to travel abroad to participate in surrogati events. The question raised by the representative is difficult to answer in 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e289	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e293	I am very pleased that the Council of State makes such a clear statement that children have the right to know their identity. I think we are many who have been affected by the stories we see. It is often the case that the political environment is being moved by stories, we are being moved when individuals contact and want us to open up. We have a code now, and I want to ask the Council of State what she thinks will happen in the future. Does the Council of State think that there will be pressure on this in the future, and will it be a political environment capable of standing up to it and defending the right of children to know who they are, and where they come from? We politicians – and society – are responsible for securing that right in the future. My question to the Council of State is: does she think we can stand up for children's rights in the debates that are coming forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e302	It's going to be completely dependent on what kind of large-scale numbers there are at all times, but as I know The Storting, for almost twelve years, it's like a magnification that's always been involved in ethical discussions related to the Law on Biotechnology. I'm not worried that this big thing will be less interested in the child's best future. Suffering, of course, if you can never be absolutely sure, at least the trend so far has been that in Norway we have become more concerned about children and understood more about what children need, and that we take more into account children in our society than we did in the past. We can never control how people have children. People have children in the strangest way. I have said that in discussions with the Christian People's Party before, and we cannot regulate ourselves away from it, fortunately. But at least it is our responsibility to regulate the laws so that the children get the most information possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e309	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e312	Everyone knows how important a biological relationship is for the children, especially in the first years of life, and all children have the right to know their father and mother. We have recently seen an increase in the use of surrogati, which is a concern of the Progress Party, and we want an answer to what the government intends to do with it. The Committee is now considering a case of temporary legislative amendment to ensure the rights of children who have already come to Norway through surrogati. What is not stated in that case is what development we will see in retrospect, when the temporary law ceases. This government is known to ban anything it doesn't like. The criminalisation of sex purchases — the Sex Purchases Act — came in the previous period. My question to the Council of State, which has also clearly said that she is against surrogati, is: is the Council of State willing to criminalise the use of surrogati?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e323	Here it was very much at once. Let me first deal with this about biology. I think biological source information is important to most people, but the issue of association is going on a major discussion, because biology is not a prerequisite for achieving a link with, for example, caregivers. That discussion is now linked to the protection of children and to a major investigation on which it is based, and which states that association and a developmental principle are very important to discuss and perhaps even ignore the biological principle. So that's one discussion. When it comes to the question of surrogati, I don't want to shoot what's going to happen in the future. Then, among other things, we must: see it in the light of the Hague Convention and a report thereon shall be delivered during the year. But what has been my concern is to secure the children who are now in Norway. That is why we have put forward the proposals we have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e330	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e333	It was not long ago, it was actually so late as in 2004, that the Bondevik II government, along with SV, lifted the system that one had in Norway that an actually legally prevented children from knowing their biological origins when they were a result of sperm donation – to great resistance from, among other things. one of today's government parties, which was afraid that it would then prevent anyone from standing up and being a sperm donor. So the right to become a parent was higher than the children's ability to know their biological origin. The same approach is now seen in the discussion of egg donation and surrogati, and around the combination of all these possibilities. Yes, with a combination of these possibilities, it can end up with five different parents, so ‘Tore on track’ gets it busy in the years to come. There will be a lot of 'Tore on the Side Track'! The question to the Minister for the Child is, Will she just take care of the child’s interests in this discussion?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e342	The answer to that is an unconditional yes. There is nothing more important than ensuring that children are wanted and that children have good caregivers around them. But we're also responsible for ensuring that children get knowledge, and that children get information that's adapted to their age. In the question of surrogati, there are many other issues that also arise, but the child's best interests have been crucial to us. We have also taken this into account – including as Minister of Children’s Affairs – in the discussion on surrogati when we are committed to securing the children who are in Norway, legal parenting and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e349	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e352	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Mother of little Kristin and father of little Ole were on a trellis with their two little children and came into the conversation about what to do with their children for the autumn – if they were to apply them into the nursery. Mother of little Kristin was very happy, for little Kristin was born within the time limit set by the government for admission to kindergarten. But the father of little Ole became quieter and quieter during the conversation and finally had to say that it was a little sad, for little Ole was born on 1 September, only hours after the deadline for this court had expired, and now the little family wondered what to do for the autumn. This is just a small illustration of how many parents have it in these days, because right now there are a lot of municipalities that have a deadline to apply for kindergarten, and parents are sitting around the kitchen table with the PC and are going to apply for kindergarten for their children for the first time. The government's family policy contains a host of deadlines, deadlines that are impossible to deal with, and many dates that remind us of family planning in countries with which we do not like to compare. This policy has also led to chaos in the food departments during the summer break, and from the media we have heard stories about parents pushing for births. The government boasts that Norwegian 1-year-olds have legalized the right to kindergarten, and that we now have full kindergarten coverage. That's actually not true, because there's almost 10,000 children born last fall, who don't have this right. A lot of parties have now seen the absurdity of this and they've played out that it's time to do something about this rule. The Progress Party is the only party that has spent money in its alternative budget to ensure that the children born in the harvest get the kindergarten they need, regardless of when they are born. My question to the Minister of Knowledge will therefore be: Will the Minister of Knowledge ensure that the right to children's gardening becomes a reality for all 1 year olds until the fall?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e369	For a while I thought the representative Horne had found out that I was born on 2 September, but then I'm not little Kristin anymore – on the contrary, to say it like that! I understand very well that the parents who have children born from 1 September onwards are concerned about what is offered to their child in the future. If you are going to get full child care coverage, you have to set a deadline first, and then you have to keep working on how to get a good system that makes the capacity of the municipalities so that you can also bring in children born after these deadlines. The reason why we do not have more admissions today than this one – or statutory entitlement to kindergarten – is the following: In many municipalities there is too little capacity for kindergartens. Then I don't just think about building, but I think about people working in kindergartens, I think about qualified staff working there. It is important for us that there is good quality in kindergartens, especially because there are new challenges associated with the fact that there are very many small children in kindergartens now compared to what it was a few years ago. Then, of course, it's a budgetary question. In Norwegian municipalities there are 14 000 children born after 1 September, who still have space in kindergartens. Many municipalities are able to secure a right in addition to the statutory right. My goal is to expand the range of offers available, including for 1-year-olds, but that we have to do so in line with the quality of kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e381	I thank you for your answer. I guess it was waiting. Both the SV, the Workers' Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have talked about all the advantages of two recordings or running recordings, and you have a programme debate around to give the young children's parents more places. Why should parents out there believe in SV when they now say that they want this, when they have been in government for eight years without getting it? In my first question, I referred to all the parents who were sitting at the kitchen table and were going to apply for kindergarten. There are also quite a few other couples planning to have children. Now it is that the deadline for making children who are guaranteed kindergarten for 2014 went out at the beginning of December. So to all the couples out there who are planning to make children now: you have to wait, you better start with some practice. In other words, the government's family policy does not open up too much spontaneity. On behalf of all the couples out there who want to become a parent, I wonder if they have to wait until April with an exception to secure their nursery place in 2015, or if the government will help to make this easier in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e390	Time is up – speaking time. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e393	We are now outside of the questions that SV believes politicians should interfere. I think it's interesting that the Progress Party now has – what to say – shifted the boundaries of its policy. I do not intend to provide any advice to families with children on how to plan, but I intend to have full pressure that we should have good quality children's gardens for all children. And I'm absolutely sure those people who have 1-year-olds they want babysitting are looking for babysitting because they're in a desperate situation if they don't get it, but also a high-quality kindergarten. They want a kindergarten where they know that their child is well cared for, where there are enough adults – where they can offer it. That's the background for us to be careful to take account of both. So I want to say that the Progress Party is in exactly the same dilemma. It is not that the Progress Party in its draft budget can guarantee kindergarten for all children at the moment they are one year old. They also have a deadline, but it's only a little later.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e400	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Ib Thomsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e403	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of State. We have heard the Minister of Knowledge tell us why children born at the wrong time this year are discriminated against after 1 September. The reason for this is a hard-pressed local economy and that it is extremely bad in the municipalities. But there are 200 municipalities that have received a continuous recording. Hospitals experience that emerging mothers want to start their birth earlier, so that they can be born by 1 September in order to secure the child’s entitlement to kindergarten. This can seem very artificial. So my question is, what will the Minister of State – the party leader in the Central Party – do to ensure that 1-year-olds get an offer of kindergarten, regardless of when they are born?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e412	The representative invites me to speak at the district council of Halvorsen, because it is the minister of knowledge who has the financial responsibility for his area, even though the money is channelled over the framework of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. We have a framework financing of the municipalities. The most important thing for the government is that we have given the municipalities a better economy. We have increased real growth in the municipal sector from 2006 to 2012 by 61 billion. kr. It has given many municipalities the opportunity to prioritize. We have the lowest earmark in the infinite time, which also gives priority. Some municipalities have then chosen to prioritize running recordings. That's what's called local democracy. I hope that several municipalities can do so, and we will continue our efforts to strengthen the local economy in order to give additional priority opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e417	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e420	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. The Christian People's Party is concerned with freedom of choice for the families of children. If you are to have freedom of choice, you must have cash support and the opportunity to be at home if you want to, but you must also have high-quality nursery facilities if you want. Now, as illustrated here, there are a number of families who feel that the nursery is not there. The Christian People's Party has put money into its alternative budget proposal to build that capacity. I agree with the Minister of Knowledge that this is complex. It takes time to build up capacity, and we have to make sure that kindergarten places are of good quality. The question to the Minister of Knowledge is: when she starts to show interest in moving towards solving the rigid system and opening up more babysitting, how long does she realize that it can take to build up the capacity that allows us, for example, to have. two kindergarten admissions per year – giving more flexibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e429	I have to say that I'm sitting and thinking a little bit back, because there's something very interesting that's happened in the kindergarten debate. First of all, this freedom of choice, which those who were primarily concerned with cash support a short time ago, wanted, has proved to be the freedom of choice that parents wanted to choose a high-quality kindergarten. Now it's almost like all kids have gone to kindergarten before they start school. That's very good. Then we have to make sure that it is a good quality offer. Today there are almost 300,000 children in kindergarten. We're assuming that there might be 10,000 more people who would want a kindergarten if we had two recordings a year. Then we have to make sure that we proceed in such a way that it is good quality for the almost 300,000 children who are in kindergarten today, while still making room for more. It's a budgetary question, and it's a matter of recruiting personnel. But I am, of course, keenly concerned that we will succeed in this, so that no one needs to worry about their children.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e436	Linda C. Hofstad Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e439	The rules for babysitting are too rigid. That's why the Right wants a more flexible admission, so that parents can be sure that they get babysitting when the kids need it. That's why the Right People put the systems ahead of them, and that's why we think that monthly admissions, free establishment rights and municipal prices can help municipalities continuously offer places to the kids when they need it. Unfortunately, the Minister of Knowledge seems to close his eyes because there are many different ways of ensuring a more flexible recording. But a kindergarten place costs the same, no matter when it's offered, and when three out of ten kids today don't have a place in a kindergarten when they're 1 year old, it creates big problems. Is it so to understand that the Council of State does not want to propose a continuous admission, because then the government does not have the opportunity to continue to say that there is full child-care coverage in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e447	As far as I can remember from the Right Alternative Budget, the Right does not propose to grant a single penny more for the admission of several children into kindergartens. I think that's very interesting. It is important that the voters know this before the election, because that means that what the Right believes is that one should put more children in the kindergartens that are already there – fill up the kindergartens – so that there are more children per adult. There is no other way – it costs money to believe that the offers to the one-year-olds should be extended. I'm going to warn you about it, because it's going to go beyond the quality of the children who are in kindergartens. It is not possible to bluff away that increasing children's rights requires more employees in kindergartens. We need more kindergartens, because we need room for them. It's not just about attitudes or how to practice recording. It is simply about expanding that capacity and having the number of free spaces needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e454	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e457	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Then I think it's a little special that the council suggests that I'm standing here bluffing – but I'm leaving it in this round. Last week a very brave girl traveled from Brumunddal to Stortinget to meet Right. She told me about her life with child protection. Because of care failure throughout growth and serious system failure in child protection, this girl never got to be either child or youth. No, she had to be a substitute mother for her little girls. She packed the food package for her little girls and sent them to school instead of going to school herself. Now the girl is standing in front of her adult life with big holes in the training. That's a bad starting point for getting by later in life. The figures from Bufdir’s large user survey in 2011 indicate that there are 300 Norwegian children in child protection institutions who do not attend school at all. Less than four out of ten child protection children complete high school, and we are well aware of the relationship between education and the risk of disability. So there's no doubt that one of the most important things we can do for these kids is to secure them schooling. The right has proposed several times to set aside additional funds to allow them to do so. These are the most vulnerable children we're talking about, and they can need school the most. When the 2011 Council of State replied to what the government is doing for the schoolless children's protection, she said that they had taken action to provide more child-restraint schools. Can the Council state whether the measures are successful? And has it given more child-restraint children the school they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e472	I share Linda C. Hofstad Greece's view of the importance of schooling, no matter how difficult the situation children may be in. Of course, children who have major challenges in other areas can have extra demanding schooling — because it's not like sending their brains to school alone, it's kids who bring their backpacks full of maybe many other kinds of problems as well. In particular, there are children such as: are in the transition between foster homes, child protection institutions — and perhaps repatriation again — demanding challenges in following a school course. We've gone into those figures to check how children's rights to school are being fulfilled when they're at an institution. We see that there are some challenges there, especially in relation to the slightly larger children. It is not necessarily because they do not offer training, but because these are children who, because of all the other problems they have, are also school-worshipers. So it's that kind of challenge as well. But I fully agree that here there is a group of children for whom it has to be arranged.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e479	I was not so very reassured by the answer. I really found it hard to understand what the Council of State was trying to say. In 2011, the Council of State stood here in Stortinget and explained that several measures had been taken. Since the matter was in the media last week, we now receive almost daily enquiries from young people who have lost their schooling. Then I ask again: does the Council of State see that the measures taken by the government may not have proved to be so successful, since there are still so many children, including in institutions, who do not get the school they are actually entitled to under the training law? And can the Council of State again tell what measures the government has taken — and intends to start — to provide more child-restraint education?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e486	It is clear in many contexts — and I can do it again — that all children in Norway are entitled to schooling. The challenge here may be some children who are under the care of child protection, who are in demanding and difficult situations, who are either at home or in foster homes, and who are entitled to an offer, but who are difficult to obtain. All those responsible for children must make every effort to facilitate this. But some of the kids we're talking about here are children who have so much chaotic relationships around them that school is demanding there and there. The more important it becomes that they have an opportunity to resume the school they may not have been able to do so right then. So we also have a group with a little bit bigger youth, and adults, which we have to be careful about getting the right they also have to primary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e493	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Elisabeth Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e496	To put this into perspective, when we talk about 300 children, it's equal to 10–15 school classes, or a middle school in Norway today. So it's clear that these are many children, and there are many who have the terrible sadness of their lives. It doesn't make the situation any better if they can't get the relationship that it can give to be part of the school community. When we discussed this in an interpellation debate in 2011, it was shown that the County Council in Troms had carried out a survey of how it stood there. The council then informed Stortinget that she would ask other statesmen to do a similar screening. My question is, what did it come out of that survey, and what kind of new measures, based on these surveys that we see from Bufdir, the government will put in place to make sure that we get the reinforced measures that some of these children obviously need?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e505	It is quite right, as the representative of Aspaker says, that this is often about reinforced measures, and not just about children going to a secondary school that is close to an institution such as the one in question. are on; there may be children who have major challenges in being able to meet up at school and finish a regular school day, because everything else around is so chaotic or full of problems. Children are then entitled to training at the institution where they are. I will review the legislation for this and look at how we can reinforce this and make sure that all children are entitled to that offer. But these are pretty difficult things because these kids are in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e512	Bente Thorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e515	The offences committed against children under the care of child protection who for various reasons do not go to school have been known for many years. These children have the same obligations and rights as other children under the Training Act § 2–1. They must also be guaranteed the same possibilities. The Progress Party believes that we should be equally ambitious on behalf of all children and ensure that we give them the follow-up they need to learn. Education is important for everyone, for the future of the individual. In a debate – as has been pointed out here – on school and child protection children, in November 2011, the Council of State indicated that different measures have been taken. However, it is still often found that some children under child protection are not participating in school. Although it may be difficult to get children to go to school, there is a lot of work to do. However, the measures are obviously not good enough. How will the Council of State ensure that these children receive training under the Training Act?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e523	This is a rather demanding issue, and I think maybe some of the speakers later on, like it's primarily about here, following kids back and forth to school. But here there might be situations where children are in a very difficult life situation that makes this not the option. What's demanding is how these transitions are going to be, and what kind of offer you have, for example. are unable to attend school for different reasons. I will follow up these issues again, because it is quite right – as has been said – that all children have the right to attend school, and they have the right to attend that school in such a way that it is possible for them to attend. I'll notice the commitment of the representative Thorsen and others and go up that loop again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e530	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e533	It is not surprising that my question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. The fact that scientific staff have been employed in temporary posts has long been a challenge in the university and higher education sectors. There has been a slight decrease in the last seven years, but the university sector has a very large share here, and a whole of 22 pst. of those working in the university sector have temporary posts. There has been no change as long as SV has been sitting and directing the sector. The consequences for people are quite dramatic. They don't get housing loans, and many people have to postpone having kids. We get a class distinction here, and in the state especially, and very many in the academy, it's free for temporary employment. This happens with the government's knowledge and will. When I asked questions about this, the Minister of Labour said quite arrogantly that the Civil Service Act has so good job protection that then we would rather tolerate that there is a lot of temporaryity. It means once again that we take care of those who are inside, but don't care so much about those who are outside and don't get fixed employment. Some temporary employment covers many years — four, six, up to nine years — and the Council of State is responsible for those institutions, whether or not she is responsible for the work environment law and the Civil Service Act. My question to the Council of State is: Is the Minister of Knowledge, who is responsible for this sector, in agreement with the Minister of Labour that there are no problems with temporary employment? Is the price of public sector job protection so extensive that we can tolerate temporary employment being abused in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e546	I am pleased with the representative, Skei Grande, that she is mistaken on the basis of the question, because the temporaryity of academic institutions has fallen. It was in 2006 approx. 20 pst., and in 2012 it is 16.9 pst. But I can immediately say that 16.9 pst. is too high, and that we have worked systematically towards the institutions to reduce the amount of temporaryity. It introduced my predecessor, Tora Aasland, as a separate area to report on in the governance dialogue with the institutions. Now, what we see is that we have a good basis for going more directly to each institution. We see that someone is quite good at reducing the temporaryity, while others clearly have challenges with this. We are now going to follow this very closely to each institution with clear expectations of how to reduce the temporaryity, because the amount of temporaryity is too high. There are so many variations between institutions that it is perfectly obvious that those who are very high have good opportunities to come down if management takes hold of it. I expect that, and I'm going to demand that the institutions do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e551	I understand that the Council of State has a commitment. There is also a hard pass in the SV’s current-period deposit selection program where it says that this should create a separate plan/message to target. We haven't exactly seen that, but this could have been solved very easily. The Left has proposed that the Working Environment Act and the Civil Service Act should provide for a maximum of two years of temporaryity. Then we would have gotten rid of this problem, then we would have made sure that people could have the rights they should have – including those that are outside. My question to the Council of State is: why in the world can't the government support the Left's proposal to introduce such a ceiling? Then this problem had been eliminated.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e560	I am a little surprised at this, because some of the challenges facing academia are, on the one hand, that there are different research assignments that require a little different recruitment and, on the other hand, that the educational positions that we have within the academy can be justified by the kind of job protection, or protection in relation to temporary and permanent jobs that we have today. I believe that the right way forward is to make demands on the management of the various institutions that they have a personnel policy and a planning horizon that reduces the amount of temporaryity. Too many people today have too much uncertainty about their jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e565	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e568	My follow-up question goes to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. According to the Chair of the Database on Right-wing Education at the University of Bergen, Benedicte Løseth, there is a larger proportion of female scientific staff in temporary posts than men. This is, as we've seen, a pattern. I therefore believe that reducing the scope of temporary employment in the higher education sector is also very important in a gender equality aspect. Does the Minister for Equal Opportunities share this view? Is not the most effective means of action precisely what the Left proposes, and what Mrs Grande spoke about instead, namely to limit temporary posts to a maximum of two years before it automatically leads to employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e577	I will refrain from thinking about what instruments are most effective in the responsibilities of other government councils. What I am concerned about, however, is that we should reduce the scope of temporary jobs. It is in itself going the opposite way to what the Left has generally wanted in terms of working with the Working Environment Act. This way you might meet up a little bit in the door, sail if I respect and appreciate that the Left focuses on a problem that many people experience within the Academy, just as it is experienced elsewhere. These issues often have a gender dimension. It is about temporaryity, it is about part-time problems and other. It also means that we cannot have a gender-neutral, objective approach to these issues; we also need to look at them from a gender perspective. I am therefore concerned that we should reduce the scope of both temporary and part-time jobs. We are talking about involuntary part-time, I think it is also about part-time cultures that we must live to see.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e582	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e585	My question goes to the State Council Halvorsen. It's true that it's just 16 pst. who have been temporarily admitted to academia, but the proportion of young people temporarily admitted is significantly higher. The argument sometimes heard from the sector is that much temporaryity is due to the fact that some of the revenues are not known in advance. For an average REMA buyer, absolute all revenues are unknown before 1 January. Nevertheless, the general rule in most colonial businesses — as it is called in the old days — is that the members of the community have permanent employment. Does the Council of State believe that the argument about unsafe income is a relevant argument for why a high degree of temporaryity in academia exists?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e597	I believe that it is used to a greater extent than the actual basis, and I have met it – let me be so diplomatic and say it like that – as a bad excuse for not taking up temporaryity at its institution. Uncertainty about income related, for example, has been described. participation in different research projects or programmes and uncertainty about the skills needed to participate, much greater than it actually is. This is also why some institutions have been quite successful in reducing temporaryity, while others have not. I'm sure those who haven't done it can do better. Of course, it will always be that different research programmes may require new, different formulations of, for example, scientists than you've ever had, but I think it can be handled much better than what I see many examples of.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e602	Svein Harberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e605	On April 15, 2010, I submitted an interpellation to the then State Council for Higher Education, Tora Aasland. The answer Tora Aasland gave me then, and the answer the Council of State gave to Trine Skei Grande on 18 December – that is, just before Christmas – is identical. ‘The vast majority of institutions can further reduce the temporaryity, and I will do my part to do so. In an answer on the same theme to Torbjørn Røe Isaksen 3 January this year, the Council of State writes that this has been a priority task in recent years. Both state councils have pointed to governance dialogue and clear expectations, but we see that there is no large counting in the results. Isn't the Council of State now time for a new grip? What action has the Council of State now taken to ensure that the institutions do not receive the desired response?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e617	Some of the issues raised here now are going to be the subject of the research report that I intend to present to the Storting before Easter. What we're doing now is we're dealing with this question very clearly with all the institutions and refer to the good examples we have, because there's simply a need for more tailoring here. I don't want to say in general about all the institutions at universities and colleges that they don't do anything about the temporary, because there are some who should be rewarded and given as good examples, and therefore I don't want to cut everyone over a comb. There will be more progress in the governance dialogue with the institutions, with clear demands and expectations for the management of those institutions that they do what they can to reduce the temporaryity. I think this is also about the institutions' ability to hold on to important competences.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e622	Dagrun Eriksen - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e625	If you break down the figures for the different institutions, it shows that, for example: universities haven't had the decline that you see if you look at all the numbers together. When I sat and listened to this, I suddenly thought: What if the Council of State thought that it was not Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg who managed this state enterprise that has such a great temporary nature, but that it did, for example. Was Stein Erik Hagen, who was the chief, and where was temporary use as much as the state does in its businesses? Does the Council of State think that she had then had a slightly different commitment and a little clearer messages as to why one does not accept such a great use of temporaryity, than what she has today, when it is Jens Stoltenberg's company that we put the search light on?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e630	I think we should save Jens Stoltenberg to follow up this issue. It is my responsibility to follow up on this with regard to these institutions, and I don't think they feel that they are getting vague or uncooperative speech in this area. I expect them to do much more with the question of temporaryity than they have now. But there are differences between institutions, and therefore I don't want to be as hard on everyone, because I'm concerned that those who do a good job in this area are going to get recognition for it. That's why there's a mess in the dialogue, and they get the hat to fit if there's a need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e635	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e647	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left. Question 8, from the representative of Vigdis Giltun to the Minister of Labour, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State for question 13.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e669	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e676	‘I, the undersigned, have asked the Council of State a number of questions about fear culture in the police. The starting point for these questions was, among other things: the situation in Rome's police district. All along, the Council of State has pushed the Police Directorate, the POD, in front of it, who has categorically rejected any allegation of critical conditions in individual police districts. At the same time, both the Department and the POD have been well aware of the situation in Rome's police districts. Is this something that engages the Council of State, and what signals has she given or will give to the POD in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e688	Enquiries about the poor working environment are being taken very seriously, and I can assure the representative, Oktay Dahl, that I am following the situation in the working environment in the police and emergency services. The topic is therefore, of course, part of the governance dialogue with the Directorate of Police. Oktay Dahl addresses an important topic that was also addressed in a national employee survey in the winter of 2011, and I have been informed that there was no direct finding indicating that employees experience a fear culture. The police directorate has also planned a new employee survey in the first quarter of this year. With regard to the issue at issue in the Rome-rich police district, on which the representative – as he also stated – has asked several written questions, the Police Directorate has informed, and the representative knows that the matter was formally raised with the Police Directorate only in March 2012. The Directorate informs that a person in this case has had good cooperation with the protection service chosen. I have also previously informed the representative that, in cooperation with the employees' representatives, the Police Directorate has issued its own guidelines for warning of critical matters in the police and relief services as well as a warning poster. In consultation with the Police Directorate, I would like to assess the guidelines for alerts, including the establishment of an independent alert channel, with a view to ensuring that alerts can be followed up as closely as possible at all levels. The Directorate of Police also states that if bullying and harassment are detected, it shall be resolved at the lowest possible level within the organisation. I would like to add that it is important that matters relating to critical conditions in a workplace are quickly addressed. In conclusion, I would like to mention that the Directorate of Police informs us that they are implementing a leadership platform and employeeship, which will form the basis for the work to strengthen trust between employees and the management of the department. The aim of this work is to develop good managers and employees, who together will achieve the objective of better management, good attitudes and a healthy working culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e703	The Gjørv Commission was very clear that the fundamental problem related to the July 22 management was negative cultures for action. The vast majority, including the Council of State, have shown this and been concerned about it. An important part of the cultures with which you have problems are police management cultures, and there the Council of State has been aware that she is focused on management. Then the question is, what has the Council of State actually done with the fact that for years individual police officers have had the opportunity to harass, rule and make people sick in their own household – in addition to having a well-paid right-wing position when they finally leave because they have become too old?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e708	It is quite right that the representative points out, and the July 22 Commission has also pointed out, that management, attitudes, culture and interaction are a challenge when we are going to work both to improve preparedness and to ensure better implementation and emphasis on results. I want to be very careful about making a direct link to the issue of fear culture, but I assume that the Directorate of Police, when they are now implementing comprehensive change programmes with a focus on leadership, includes, of course, personnel policy challenges with a view to ensuring that when the goals you have set are met and the ability to implement according to the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e715	With regard to the specific case, there have been conflicts in the management of this police district since 1994. This policeman also brought a rather controversial baggage from another police district. For a longer time, before March 2012, there has also been a wide range of enquiries to both the POD and the Department of Individuals and Trade Unions. The failed collections have been held focusing on loyalty in the line. It is also interesting to see that almost no one in the leadership group around that police officer has managed to work out the time under this regime. It's been well known to the Police Directorate throughout the period. Then the question is, does the Council of State feel comfortable that her department and directorate are responsible for people getting sick over the years because you have no ability to do anything about the situation? Now you sit there and let this person run a few red runs for a well-paid position in the police department afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e722	I am pleased that the representative Oktay Dahl is concerned with both the need to establish good rules of the game and the need to ensure a good working environment for the employees of the police and county council. He refers to a history of a single matter that I unfortunately do not know in all the details, but I can assure the representative that I have gone into what has happened since this matter was formally taken up with the directorate. Then we were also asked about how we, among other things. Through the use of an independent warning channel, we can ensure that we are opposed to suspicions, allegations and rumors that there are employment conditions that do not allow us to address questions if you want to do so. An independent alert channel can provide an opportunity that you have not had in the building so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e731	‘In many cases, asylum seekers who are mentally unstable have committed criminal acts. After questioning, many were released pending legal proceedings. An asylum seeker with an unknown ID and without a residence permit carried out a murder trial in Mandal, was transferred to the psychiatric ward and then released after six days. The victim/family now feels so threatened by him that they had to move to a secret address. The police are aware of the threat, but cannot take care of it. What will the Council of State do to avoid ‘ticking bombs’?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e738	I agree with the representative Åse Michaelsen that dealing with crime and, at the same time, being in a border country in terms of diagnosis, both in terms of criminal justice and psychiatric treatment, is a difficult task. He is mentally ill, but not acutely ill. Here, it is easy to draw different conclusions about and, where appropriate, where these perpetrators are to be placed. In cases where disunity results in their not being deprived of liberty, the danger of their committing new crimes is present. Let me make it clear here that the Criminal Procedures Act gives access to the custody of persons suspected of serious crime, even in cases where, because of a psychiatric diagnosis, they are in the process of being transferred to mandatory mental health protection. A killing attempt is an example of such crime. At the request of the Ministry, the Advocate General has informed that the case referred to in the question put to him by the representative Michaelsen is still under investigation, but that the police find no basis for aiming at the suspected attempt to kill. This would include a different provision of the penal code. The police impose on the person concerned the obligation to report and the prohibition of seeking the offended person. It was concluded that the conditions of use of custody prison are not present in the case. Otherwise, in the case of measures against what Åse Michaelsen refers to as ‘ticking bombs’, I can among other things. refer to the cooperation between the police and the health authorities identified in a joint circular of the Directorate of Police and Health from last year. In this context, the division of responsibilities and tasks between the departments is clarified in the case of mentally ill persons. This also includes a police alert to the health sector regarding mentally unstable persons in need of observation and possible treatment. In the light of the report of the Ministry of Justice on the need for changes in the law, on criminal inviolability and specific criminal law reactions, the Ministry of Justice is now reviewing the rules on the transfer to forced mental health protection and forcing care where crime is characterised by privacy violations and systematic persecution. The Ministry further looks at the need for a new provision on temporary forced stay in mental health protection for unpredictable perpetrators of persistent and socially harmful crime. In addition, the Government has decided to implement a pilot project. The aim is to prevent relapse in the relevant group of perpetrators by using existing instruments in full. The project provides for close cooperation between health professionals and the police. Oslo Police District has been selected as the area for the pilot project, and we are planning to expand to Bergen and Trondheim. The first experience reports are expected from the Ministry of Health and Welfare at the beginning of the next month. In conclusion, let me point out that we are setting up a public body to investigate the law on criminal inviolability and the use of psychiatric experts in criminal matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e749	The President notes that both the representative and the Council of State use the term ‘ticking bombs’ for people with a mental disorder. The President is uncertain whether it is appropriate in this Chamber. I want to have at least mentioned it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e752	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Without going into a specific case – we will not – it is such that after an incident, it is investigation, as the Council of State also points out. The risk of recurrence may first be revealed through that investigation. Is there a risk we are willing to take – that there can actually be a criminal act again pending the investigation? Shouldn't one think that it's better to be led was than soon? One sees that victims get e.g. a violent alarm, but due to poor resources, the alarm will provide false security: due to a lack of crew, it is not the police that can pull out of a possible alarm. Isn't it a big risk to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e757	The representative describes some of the most demanding issues we have, and therefore it has been important to establish rules for a closer interaction between the police and the health authorities. As I explained, we established a circular on this last year, and we are launching a pilot project around this this year. Oslo police districts have already started the pilot project, and in a short time we are rolling this out also in Bergen and Trondheim. With the experience reports that the Ministry of Health and Health will receive at the beginning of the next month, I think we can also see what we can possibly do to ensure an even better follow-up on these matters by both the police and health authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e762	In cases where a person has an unknown identity and is also without a residence permit, as one has seen in several cases, it should not be exacerbating – when one really does not know who one is dealing with? Should one not then be so clear, since we do not know who this is, that a person might use custody or some form of closed reception in such cases? We've seen cases where new criminal acts happen when someone has fallen between two chairs. Is it not better to be in advance and say that you know what, here we will have custody, or – if it is not permitted by law – in the case of persons with unknown ID and also without a residence permit, get them into closed reception?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e769	In matters involving asylum seekers who are either reported, accused, intentional or convicted of criminal acts, we have asked that these cases be given special priority both in the UDI and in the Foreign Affairs Department. We have also established reception facilities with reinforced departments and special housing and care facilities to enable us to follow up asylum seekers, for example. with mental problems, tighter. If there are issues about watchkeeping, the receptions also have the opportunity to establish enhanced watchkeeping on issues that warrant it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e778	‘Life companies look for better investment opportunities to address the need for pension savings. Increased government capital requirements, reduced risk-free interest rates and longer life expectancy create challenges. At the same time, society needs increased access to capital to expand much needed infrastructure, such as road, electricity and gas pipelines. In the light of the pension debate recently, what will the government do to make infrastructure investments more interesting to ensure future pensions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e785	Whereas the rules governing life-assurance companies provide for the sound management of client funds and therefore require the dissemination of risks and provisions on the amount of shares to be placed in securities which are not admitted to trading on so-called regulated market places; These provisions are general and it has not been common to distinguish between the admission of life insurance companies to invest in securities issued by companies operating in different branches. In order to facilitate investment in infrastructure, we amended the capital management regulation for life insurance companies with effect from 1 January 2011. The ability to invest in liquid assets issued by companies with infrastructure as an underlying activity was then extended. Therefore, we do not now have concrete plans to amend the provisions of the regulation on investment in infrastructure. Insurance corporations shall only operate insurance business under the concession rules. The best management of client funds is also within the insurance business. I agree with the questioner that it is important to ensure that future pension payments are safe, but there is a balance between when an investment is only an investment and when the investment becomes so large in ownership that it has to be seen as operating other activities. An insurance company is therefore not legally able to invest customer funds in ownership items of more than 15 p.m. by a company engaged in so-called ‘non-insurers’ activities. This limitation of ownership has been proposed by the Banking Law Commission to be continued in the proposal for a new Financial Enterprise Act. That law is now under work in the Ministry of Finance, and we aim to present it during the spring. The representative also mentions new capital requirements for insurance companies. There is still a lot of work in the EU before the new solvency legislation for insurance companies is in place. Neither the specific rules nor their phase-in period are clear in the EU. Infrastructure investments now appear to be treated as so-called illiquid shares. Investments with a market return, such as, inter alia: electricity networks and gas pipelines are normally financed in the capital market. As long as those projects are profitable, there is no reason to believe that they are limited by lack of capital. State investment without a market return should, in my view, continue to be financed from the State budget as at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e796	Thanks for the answer. I agree that we should spread the risk. When age comes, pensioners should know that the money is there, and not that they have been invested at high risk and would like to be lost for some. We have seen too many examples of this in other countries, where there is a great deal of uncertainty when you get older. However, many of the companies that today, according to the Council of State, have been given the opportunity to invest in infrastructure, for example: power supply and gas pipelines are nevertheless very clear in their feedback to the Progress Party that this is not sufficient. It's not going to be enough opening or sufficiently interesting for them to actually realize this. It is my opinion that although the intention of the Minister of Finance has been correct, he has not been able to implement it in a sufficiently good way. Therefore, I believe this topic is an important debate, especially when one sees the pension debate that is now taking place, where many see that only because the expected interest rate level of risk-free interest will be lower in the future, then one has to start changing the entire pension system. In this respect, a rather safe, good investment should be made, for example: in infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e803	There are two sides to this matter. On the one hand, how to deal with private pension insurance in the future, not least in the transition between old social security and new social security. It refers to the latest investigation by the Banking Law Commission that is now being consulted – it is important that we handle it in a good way. The other thing is to make sure, among other things. life insurance corporations good investment opportunities. I can say to the representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, that what is going on infrastructural investment is a topic, but, as I said in the main response, we have no plans to amend the regulation further now, even if it is so far on the agenda. The second thing I think will be important in the future is to develop so-called preferential bonds, which can be an important tool to ensure, among other things. long-term capital of insurance corporations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e810	Thank you for that – I look forward to the work to be done. A little relevant thing: this is about the life companies, who need to cover their liabilities, partly because people get older than they expected, partly because the risk-free interest rate is getting lower than expected. At the same time, the government has maintained the objective of getting the oil fund 4 pst. the return on its investments. The guaranteed savings products that life companies have have have 3.6 pst. returns. That means that the government expects the oil fund to do much better than the life companies want to do. The government will consider opening up the pension fund to a part in which life companies can deposit their capital and there in fact – if the government is subject to the requirement of 4 pst. return – could the oil fund make money to manage the pension funds of the private actors? Of course, it has to be thoroughly investigated, but it's a way to show whether the government actually believes that 4 pst. Return is realistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e819	In terms of expected returns in the State pension fund abroad, we believe – based on the long lines backwards – that achieving 4 pst is fully realistic. returns over time. I have no plans to open the State pension fund abroad to manage money on behalf of private insurance companies. It is a proposal that we do not at least have to assess. I think it's right and reasonable that even private people get the opportunity to manage their funds in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e828	‘Law on municipal health and care services § 3-8 states that municipalities are obliged to have the scheme user-driven personal assistance. We now see several examples of municipalities that abolish the scheme and set up schemes with municipal assistants, where the content of the service is determined by the municipality, as in the municipality of Ringzacht. Is this in accordance with the Law and the Storting's intention to the scheme?»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e835	User-controlled personal assistance, abbreviated BPA, is an alternative way to organise the municipal service in practical assistance. The municipality must always take decisions on the provision of services on the basis of an individual assessment of needs. The BPA system shall be user-controlled, that is a central principle. The user himself, possibly with some help, is the supervisor of his personal assistant. This allows the user – within the framework of the decision on practical assistance – to decide what the assistant’s tasks should be and at what times the assistance should be provided. The BPA system can be organised in several ways, and here I think we are at the heart of what the representative is dealing with. As far as I am aware, most municipalities choose to be employers for the assistants, but the municipality may choose to leave the employer’s responsibility to the user himself, to a share class – such as. Uloba – or to other actors. If properly followed up, all these organisational models meet the requirements of the BPA scheme and are in line with the intention. In the case of Ringsaker Municipality, as referred to here, I understand from the report to Hamar Arbeiderblad on 17 January that the municipality now chooses to be an employer for the assistants themselves, rather than that Uloba will continue to have this responsibility. As I understand it, the City Council's reason for changing the organisational model is to reduce costs. Municipal staff costs less, according to the municipality, than to hire assistants through Uloba. The report shows that savings are linked to hourly pay differentials and that the user will have the same number of hours as before. Furthermore, it appears that the user should continue to be the supervisor. As long as this is the situation, in my opinion, it is not right to claim that the municipality abolishes the BPA scheme. What the municipality actually does is organise the scheme according to what seems most appropriate according to local circumstances and needs, and it is, in my opinion, a municipality's right and duty. They choose an organisational model which is clearly within the scope of the law and which is also indicated as an organisational model in the law's pre-worker.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e846	When the Stortinge dealt with the municipal health and care law, the committee was very clear that a desire to strengthen this scheme, and the content of the scheme is the whole point, namely that it is governed by the head of labour, the user of the scheme. The Councilman's letter to the users in the municipality of Ringzag, describing this new scheme, not the main point of employment, but a stronger governance of the content of the service. For example, the councillor says: that if a traveler is travelling on a cabin, at his place of holiday, an agreement must be made with the municipality of holiday to obtain assistants from there. Does this not show that this municipality has a fundamental – I mean a completely fundamental – misconception of what a user-controlled assistance system should be, when one cannot take his own assistant on the cabin, but must have an agreement with another municipality about another assistant?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e853	I find it a little difficult to go into the details of what you do in Ringsaker municipality. There may be reason to take a closer look at this, but I note that in a newspaper article the rapporteur has stressed the importance of explaining what was the intention behind that resolution. There she underlines, among other things: that, as before, a BPA scheme will be based on the rules of the Health and Care Act, and the corresponding circular of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. She also writes that it is not in any way intended that the flexibility of the scheme should be reduced by a municipal scheme. Thus, the user will continue to have a decisive influence on the process of employing assistants, including job interviews, training needs, etc., will continue to be the supervisor and have the right to develop work instructions. So I assume that the municipality of Ringsaker also follows the intention of the law, and I think that what is written here is reassuring. It is also underlined that there should not be a reduction in the service offer, including the number of hours allocated, and I assume that the municipality will follow the letter and intention of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e860	I do not expect the council to read up on the municipal papers in the municipality of Ringsaker, but I expect the council to have a view of the system of user-controlled assistance and have thought about any municipality saying: If you are going to be in your resort, you have to contact the municipality in which the cottage is located, to get a new assistant from that municipality. Does the Council of State agree or disagree that this fundamentally violates with the whole intention behind the arrangement? My next question is: When the Stortinget dealt with the law, the government was asked to come back quickly to Stortinget with a legalization of the right to user-controlled assistance. This is now almost two years ago, and I do not define it as «rapid». When does the government come back with a law enforcement, for which there is obviously a great need?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e867	I think I can give the representative the right idea that the definition of the word “fast” – no matter what you put in it – is challenged here. But I want to say that since I became a minister, I have worked a lot on this matter. It's demanding. There's also a cost ceiling set here, and we want to find a good order. So let me say it this way: in the hope that it alerted the gentleness not to take too hard on, we'll deal with it while the snow lies. It's the ambition I've been sitting down with, and we're working hard on it. With regard to the other matter, I sympathise with the intention of asking the representative, Höie, about this holiday home. That sounds reasonable. But I think again it's difficult, with respect for the municipality of Ringsaker, here to define what it means to go to a resort – where is the resort, what are the implications of going there? This is, of course, a question which most effectively concerns the hours spent by the user-led assistant. But I take the view, as I also read the rapporteur's statement, that they want to maintain the intention of the system, the letter of the law, and I have that as a starting point that they also follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e874	Then the Stortinget is promised one thing while the snow is lying, so we'll have to ask for good and decent weather! Let's move on to question No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e883	‘For prospective parents it is reported that something is seriously wrong with the child a heavy load. The pregnant person may have to spend a lot of time in a hospital far from home. In some cases both mother and child need care and medical assistance before and after birth. The father of the child is a relative of the mother in today’s law, not the child’s, and does not have the right to financial support as a relative of children in hospitals. Does the Council of State think today's law is good enough, or does it have to be looked into whether the role of father needs to be better taken care of?'
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e890	I will answer this question in the light of the legislation relating to healthcare. We have specific rules on expenditure coverage when children are admitted to an institution. In the event of a serious or life-threatening illness, the child is entitled to have both parents with him/her. Either the parents shall be offered overnight accommodation in the institution or the institution shall cover the cost of staying elsewhere. If the child is not seriously or life-threatening, it is entitled to have one of the parents present. This could be Mom or Dad. Those rules are laid down in order to take account of the child and the need for care from his or her parents when he or she is seriously ill. The rules are therefore based on the fact that the child himself is admitted and will apply when the child is admitted after birth. However, the rules do not apply in cases where the child has not yet been born. Then it's the pregnant mother who's been admitted. When adult patients need to have someone they know in their home for medical or therapeutic reasons, for example: because the patient needs help to communicate with the health care professional, the hospital shall cover the costs of accommodation, food and travel for the accompanying person. If the pregnant woman does not need to be accompanied for medical or therapeutic reasons, the future father will not be entitled to cover his/her expenses. I can see that this can be a burdensome expense for some, and I can see and understand that a mother – in the case that the representative here sketches – has a legitimate desire to have the presence of the future father. The fact that there is a burdensome expenditure applies especially in cases where mother is admitted over a longer period before birth and where father wants to be present during the period. On the other hand, I do not think it is appropriate to prescribe arrangements for a hospital to carry out needs testing in the light of the parents' finances. In such cases, I would assume that it is more appropriate to use established schemes, by Nav making an assessment on a request for financial support from the parents. In addition to that, I will assume – which I think is the experience when I visit a hospital – that the hospital exhibits flexibility and generosity and liberality by seeing the need of the emerging mother and father in such an exposed situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e901	I thank you for your answer. I would like to say that I am very happy that the Workers' Party and the Right stood together at that time to secure care for the father after the child has been born – when the child is sick and e.g. is in the prematurity or intensive care unit. In the cases we're talking about here, we're talking about prevention as much as I know the minister is very concerned about. The example that is the starting point for my question is the young couple who are students from Levanger and must travel to Oslo. They have been told that the child has a serious heart defect, and must spend a lot of time here – for Mother alone. I don't think that's the best prevention work, because being able to take care of Mother's health is important. Therefore, I wonder if the Council of State can say anything about how many people think this is, and what are the costs of ensuring that more fathers are allowed to be related to the child you are waiting for, and are not perceived as a relative to the adult.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e908	I don't have a list of similar cases. I have also read about the case to which the representative refers, in the Address Paper – I think it was earlier in January – about a student couple from Levanger. There it was suggesting that this would cost them NOK 10 000. I have also not quality assured that number, so I will be careful to comment on this specific case. But I'm aware that in similar cases, the father stays overnight with the patient in the room, and to cover extra expenses for changing bed and food until the father requires the hospitals relatively low payment, almost cost. So I often think the amount is lower than what has been outlined in the newspaper. As I said, I can't evaluate that number, and I don't know if it's such an offer the father in this particular case has got from the hospital, but it seems likely to me. So I think it's like -- once again -- that the answer here is not to create a bureaucratic cost system, a separate rule for this particular case, but there are some existing cases in our welfare system, and there's also a lot in the beauty that the hospital can exhibit in such a situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e917	I also believe that most hospitals in most cases find good solutions, but unfortunately we hear that some people experience this. In this case, they have had a roll in the municipality so that my father will have the opportunity to be with my mother. One can only imagine how terrible one of those messages is to get, and how difficult it is not to have the other parent with him. Also, when you're going to take notice of the child who's coming and the suffering it has, it's good to be two about it. Therefore, I think it is important to ensure that a good enough assessment is made on a case-by-case basis. My question as to whether the Council of State is certain that we can have confidence that the hospitals are so flexible that they will ensure that it is possible on a case-by-case basis, and – once again – whether he is also absolutely sure that it is not necessary to make a regulatory change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e924	Being sure is a strong concept. We're trying to facilitate that our health care system can see people in vulnerable situations. I think the representative well describes the need and vulnerability that is in such a difficult situation. But I feel pretty sure that regulatory change here is not the answer to that challenge, and I have to say that my general impression is that hospitals are constantly showing great flexibility, great roughness and great ability to see the whole need for care of the human being that can be in many different situations, including this one. I believe that through maternity care, through guides issued there, we can illustrate this kind of situation or potential situation that could also happen in the future, as a guide to how hospitals can handle such situations. Then I have to commend the local environment that sets up for these two. It's also a resource we have, the local environment and those that are close to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e935	‘There has been an ongoing debate on how the rules on exemptions from national samples are being practised. The main question is not necessarily the proportion exempted, but whether these students remain at a level where they cannot participate in national tests throughout primary school. Have the Council of State considered and proposed ways of improving the legislation on national testing and its practice, and can it in particular provide for better reporting on whether it is the same students who are exempted throughout the school cycle?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e942	The primary objective of national tests is to assess the success of the school in developing pupils’ skills in reading, billing and English. National tests shall primarily provide management information to schools, municipalities and national authorities. It is also an objective that the tests should be of benefit to the educational development of each individual student in cooperation between teacher, student and supervisor. When national tests are used in a sense, particular attention is paid to their follow-up, so as to address the learning challenges of individual students. For students with special challenges, either because they have a different mother tongue than Norwegian, or because they have some form of learning difficulties, there are other tools and tests that are better suited than national tests to follow them up. In order to obtain the best possible information at school and municipality level, it is desirable that as many students as possible take the tests. The fact that some students will have little benefit from taking the tests makes it still open for exemption. The exemption rules are designed to allow for the use of discretion to some extent. This allows the practice of the exemption rules to vary, but it is the aim of the rules to be understood and practised as closely as possible. In short, the exemption rules are as follows: National tests may be exempted for pupils receiving special or language training for minority languages, according to Sections 2 to 8, and when an assessment has been made for the same student that the test will have nothing to say in particular for the student’s training. The proportion of pupils being exempted varies with the student base. A school with many pupils from linguistic minorities or with special education will normally have a higher exemption than schools with few such students. This does not necessarily mean that the exemption rules are applied differently. Within these groups there are also major differences. In a report received by the Ministry of Knowledge from the counties on the implementation of national samples in the autumn of 2011, among others: the exemption rules for national samples commented on. There were some of the statesmen who were concerned that schools and municipalities were using exemptions as a strategy to achieve better results, but the main concern was that schools were exempting a few students from the tests and thus subjecting individual students to some challenges that were far away from what was possible to master. It gives a sense of defeat and not a good basis for learning later on. The Directorate for Education has, among other things: in the light of feedback from county officials, new guidance was developed for school leaders and school owners to clarify responsibilities, rules and procedures for exemption. They now assess the need for further information and guidance on the exemption rules. The personal data contained in national samples must be treated with caution. For this reason, it is limited how, for example: municipalities can follow individual lives. We have that kind of information at national level, but if schools are good at addressing the learning challenges that students have, it is not a permanent state that students, for example. must be exempted or at the lowest level.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e968	Thanks for the answer. I would first like to commend the Council of State for putting very much emphasis on the need to prevent ‘dropouts’ in high school, already in primary school – i.e. we need to tackle those who fall outside the mainstream learning development, early. What I'm worried about in that context is that in some schools there are a lot of students -- we've seen numbers up to 40 pst. – exempted from national tests and excluded from learning development throughout the school cycle. That's why I believe that a very important information is whether there's a large proportion of the students who are exempted from each school, who are exempt throughout the school cycle. Unfortunately, national tests are very much in focus. It's different in different municipalities and different schools, but I'm afraid that many of the training measures are put in when the part of the students participating on national tests, while the others miss an important part of what is the motivation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e977	I think I can reassure the representative that we also have something called screening tests, which are primarily out to find the 10-20 pst. by the students who need extra follow-up. We have that in addition to the national tests, so the schools have good resources to find those students who have some extra learning challenges. But the important thing here is to be able to address those learning challenges, so that those students get to use the potential they have, and that they are not locked up to low performance if they have the opportunity to get any further. So I share that concern expressed here. We get our own evaluation of national tests. It's coming this spring. Then we're going to go through how effective that instrument is. I am concerned that the reflection that is taking place around the use of national samples is just about how to contribute to better learning and not about the over-simplified ranking that I see that some municipalities have. I think that gives us a completely wrong focus on the use of the national tests.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e984	If I were to give cards four clues about how to improve and avoid misfocusing, the first thing to do is to give strong leads to the fact that the earnings of Vice-Chancellors should not be linked to the results of national tests. Secondly, no time should be spent in schools for dry training on national tests. A lot of time is spent on old national tests as a piece of cake for dealing with the next test, where those who are exempted fall outside the whole process. The third thing I want to say is, maybe you should look at the confirmation of who can be released. We see, for example: that Rome School in Oslo, there over 90 p.m. of students with a minority background, have decreased the number of allowances. They've gone down to 7 pst, while other schools are up to 40 pst, and that gives a lot of different results. The fourth thing I want to mention is that I think it would be useful to keep track of the proportion of schools that have been exempted throughout the school cycle, which are, in fact, repeaters, because it tells us something about the school's performance in terms of the other measures you put in front of that group.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e995	I agree with the representative of Bohemia. We'll see what opportunities we can have within the requirements we have in terms of personal data, because it's important that we cope with that balance. So I agree that we have to ensure that we have a more similar practice with regard to exemptions, so that no one is tempted, for example. is a very one-sided focus on ranking, to regulate for that reason. It is primarily the benefit of the child’s participation in the national tests that will be decisive. So we have a slightly more general knowledge of how students or groups of students evolve level-wise compared to other students over time. This shows that there may be some quite significant changes, e.g.: for students who have achieved the lowest level of reading at the fifth stage, have 32 pst. have arrived at level 3. There are slightly different divisions in levels, but they've obviously lifted themselves significantly to the eighth step. So there's significant progress, and if we focus on it, we can deal with this in a sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1002	The size now goes to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1009	«On the route E6 a new road will soon be ready for Hamar. Does the Council of State plan to build the route between Hamar and Lillehammer as a two-half-field road with a midway network, even if the annual traffic, ÅDT, is already above the limit of 12 000 ADT?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1016	The concept evaluation of transport modes, KVU, for the choice of concept for the further development of transport systems in the Mjøs region, suggests a development strategy on this route of E6. For the development of the route between Colomen and Lillehammer, the selected concept 5 means, as I consider it, the four-field road on it approximately 48 km long distance between Colomen and Biri and the two-field road with a mid pull and pass-by road on it approximately 26 km long distance from Biri to Lillehammer. The consultant has also taken this into account in the quality assurance report, the KS1 report. Traffic rates vary along the route. According to the traffic forecast in KVU, an ADT of E6 between Colomen and Lillehammer will be between 15000 and 24000 vehicles within 20 years. Current road standards refer to the construction of four-field roads if the volume of traffic during the year of dimensioning, i.e. 20 years after opening the road, is more than 12000 vehicles. That system is being used in the construction of all Norwegian roads, and I see no reason to deviate from this system. The road sections involved in the development of the next decade will be submitted by the government to the Stortinge in the forthcoming national transport plan. There are many undersized roads in Norway, and we can't all expand at the same time. That is why we sometimes need to implement temporary measures that can save life and health, pending full development.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1025	We have now repeatedly seen that the forecasts have failed, and that traffic has become stronger. Last year, Oslo Economics produced a report analysing forecasts and actual traffic trends on given routes in Norway. This report shows that in several places too low predictions are planned because the State Road Service does not take into account the different rates of growth in different parts of the country. Typical crop regions are therefore under-dimensioned, while so-called depopulation areas – if you can call it it – may end up with an opposite error in the calculations. We've seen this over and over again has been a big problem. In addition, there is variation in traffic across the clock, over the weeks and over the years with holidays, exits, etc. Isn't this something we should sort out and get something more precise in our forecasts?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1034	I assumed that the representative Halleraker would provide the report from Oslo Economics. It's true that they point to especially three sections, of which the one we're now dealing with is one of them. As I said, it is that one usually adopts a draft selection investigation that provides guidance for the further planning of a project. However, one must at the same time take into account what is laid down in the legislation as regards traffic volume issues related to the development of four-field roads. The two things have to be clear to see in context. But, after all, the priority of the individual routes must also be determined in the context of an overall review of the national transport plan, which the representative Halleraker knows we have every four years and will soon have again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1041	I thank you again for the answer. I have a slight suspicion that we have a dog buried somewhere other than in what we might have taken up so far, namely that there is a basis for cost-benefit assessments of infrastructure from a department other than the Council of State. So this is the basis for the growth forecasts that are often used. The cost-benefit assessments only measure transport benefits. They measure no development in business, in business clusters that are in strong expansion. They do not measure improved mobility in working life, nor do they measure the joyous development of travel and tourism, where it occurs. That's what's really the cause of the excess growth we often see. And then I think we should all agree on getting a better forecasting basis for the plans we're going to have for the road network in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1050	The representative is quite right that we carry out useful analyses relating to each project through the planning of the project. I consider that to be an important instrument related to the decision-making basis for the government ahead of the national transport plan. I think I can agree with the representative Halleraker if it's implicit in his post that the cost-benefit analysis is an instrument and not a goal in itself. There must be an overall assessment on the basis of which projects are prioritised in the different national transport plans. Then, too, as we see the picture of priorities of the different road sections, we have to take more temporary measures that can increase road safety on the routes under planning, seas if they will be of a more short-term nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1061	‘The runway is important for both freight and passenger traffic between Bergen and Oslo. The track crosses high mountain areas where there is no continuous road connection along the track. This presents additional safety challenges, especially for passenger transport. With a background in derailment in winter 2007 and” – here I have written the ‘Fire in 2010’, I regret it, the right year is 2011 – ‘Fire in 2011 and new safety management regulations in 2011: How does the Council of State ensure that both the Railway Agency and the NSB focus on passenger safety and preparedness and work on improving safety and preparedness?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1068	Safety for travellers is a crucial premise to maintain traffic on our routes. As the representative of Sortevik points out, there are special challenges with a path as high as the Bergensbane does, and which also partially, at least in stages, goes far away. The railway system and the NSB are responsible for establishing a preparedness to take account of the additional risks involved. The railway system has emergency procedures adapted to both geographical and weather conditions. The frequency of visits may be increased and the snow clearance may be increased. The line may be closed for traffic if it is not appropriate to send trains over the high mountain. The NSB shall be responsible for passengers and shall have, inter alia: on-board equipment designed to reduce the problems for travellers whose flow would be wintertime. The NSB also has an emergency train that can be deployed in an emergency. In the event of a serious incident, the resources of emergency budgets will also be deployed. The contingency plans shall be adapted in the light of experience. One of the experiences you've had is the fire at Hallingskied in 2011. The systematic follow-up to the preparedness of the Railway Works and the NSB in this context shall be carried out through the State Railway Surveillance Authority. The railway supervision is the supervisory authority for the railway activities and also has a guidance responsibility towards them. Railway supervision is active in trying to influence, inter alia, the safety performance of railway undertakings. through the development of legislation, authorisation and risk-based control activities. This also applies to freight and passenger traffic on Bergensbanen. I would like to mention specific activities that have been carried out, or are planned, and that may affect safety management: The preparedness of establishments has been monitored. The work of the Railway Agency on the establishment of a contingency related to climatic conditions has been followed up. Preparedness has been selected as a focus theme in the 2013 Railway Monitoring Oversight Programme. Safety recommendations related to railway accidents on Bergensbanen, provided by the Statens Havari Commission for Transport, are under active follow-up. Railway undertakings are required to report individual events and to submit an annual report. Oversight provides active guidance, including: through regular guidance meetings. In my opinion, both the NSB and the Railway Agency take the emergency response very seriously, and the improvement needs identified by the State Railway Authority are being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1104	Thanks for the answer. New legislation came in 2011. The State is responsible – as owner of both the Railway Agency and the NSB. Both shall have a safety management system as prescribed. Both shall plan and carry out the risk assessments necessary to determine whether operations are within the scope of accepted risk. Both must investigate and analyse railway accidents. Is it the opinion of the Council of State that preparedness has improved since the two accidents mentioned, i.e. derailment in 2007 and the fire situation in 2011? Does the State Council know whether this is an opinion shared by the Railway Authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1113	As I pointed out in my reply, safety recommendations related to previous railway accidents on Bergensbanen are given by the accident commission during active follow-up. Railway undertakings are required to report individual incidents but also to have an annual safety management review. Oversight is an active guide. In my opinion, overall, both the NSB and the Railway Agency take this emergency response seriously – and also take seriously that the improvement needs revealed by the State Railway Authority are being met. I also want to mention – I had it in my answer – that preparedness has also been chosen as a focus theme in the 2013 Railway Surveillance Authority’s oversight programme. There will, of course, be a further step towards closer involvement in the safety and risk work related to railway activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1122	Thank you again for your answer. The accident commission reported in June 2012, after the fire at Hallingskied station in 2011. They were critical of the fire preparedness. In April 2011, the fire director of Voss said to NRK Hordaland: ‘The runway has been patched for too long.’ And on the other hand, ‘They send trains from farms over the Hardanger range under all kinds of conditions.’ Yesterday, January 22, 2013 – almost two years later – the fire director at Voss said: ‘Catatrophe if it happens in 20 minus. A winter accident on Bergensbanen may cost lives.’ Is that so? Is it luck to decide whether passengers on Bergensbanen, especially winter time, can count on safety when they are passengers over the mountain?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1146	As I have been told, there is a systematic work to be done on both the question of whether trains should be allowed to run over the mountain and the type of standby to be provided for both the passenger and train parts, if the train crosses the mountain. I understand the concern of the head of fire at Voss, but I am aware that a number of measures have been taken in terms of preparedness, both by the NSB and by the Railway Agency. These include: to have arrangements in place for passengers to be able to experience a stopover or a train stop and the question of, for example: additional power units on the stations on the high mountain line. However, first and foremost, both the Railway Agency and the NSB shall make a seagoing assessment of the suitability of driving trains over the mountain. And if one chooses to let the train go, one must be properly prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1158	«Safety procedures and work in the field of occupational safety are important factors in raising and ensuring quality, efficiency and safety. During the Committee’s visit to the Railway Authority, it appeared in a round of questions that the pre-classification of suppliers and subcontractors used by the Railway Agency was completely absent. Supplier-side quality assurance is largely implemented elsewhere in other comparable areas of society. What measures will the Council of State propose to ensure that the Railway Agency takes this seriously?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1165	I agree with the representative that safety procedures and HMS work are important in the workplace. The railway undertaking discloses that the establishment focuses on this in all parts of the procurement process, from the planning of competition to the actual execution of the purchase, and is required to do so in all acquisitions. In addition, the railway undertaking informs that requirements relating to safety procedures and HMS are imposed in all acquisitions. In addition, there are strict safety and HMS requirements in the railway works contract templates. As owner, the Ministry assumes that the contract templates are followed up. They shall be fulfilled in the course of the performance of their duties, in accordance with each contract being tendered. The railway station uses the TransQ qualification base. One of the qualification requirements in this database is that suppliers confirm to the Executive Director that they comply with the requirements for internal control by means of an HMS declaration. This statement is in accordance with the qualification requirements laid down in the regulation on public acquisitions. About 55 pst. of all the acquisitions of entrepreneurship services in the Railway Station via this qualification database. The Authority notes that if safety procedures and HMS requirements have not been specified in the prequalification — which may occur in competitions below national threshold — requirements for HMS and safety procedures will be captured by the requirements provided in the competitive basis itself and in each contract. If the Railway Authority considers that the railway system’s safety procedures and the work of the HMS are not satisfactory, I take the view that the supervision will inform the Ministry appropriately.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1178	I thank you for your answer. When the Committee was on a visit to the Railway Authority, it was informed that the preclassification of companies is not being followed up. I hear today in this Chamber that the Council of State disagrees with its own oversight – only that in itself is alarming. The question has to be, as I can repeat: what action will the Council of State take, or does it actually believe that State supervision is talking about customs?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1187	I have explained the measures put in place by the Railway Agency to ensure safety procedures and HMS declarations related to the procurement process. That's like 55 pst. acquisitions must be made through a database requiring a declaration of HMS. For those competitions below the national threshold, no pre-classification requirements may be imposed. The question of HMS will then be taken into account in the competition. As owner, I have to assume that a maritime oversight service such as the Railway Authority gives notice to the Ministry if it is considered that HMS and safety procedures at the Railway Station have not been followed up. This kind of message has not been given to me by the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1196	At the same meeting of the Railway Agency we also got the insight that in December 2012 there was a fire in the Oslo Tunnel that caused great delays and many inconveniences for the travellers. Fire is not a joke, so it is important that security and preparedness are linked to the fact that things can happen. During the fire in the Oslo tunnel, a wagon set with space for 21,000 litres of water stood on standby – in case of fire. But in fear of cold and freezing, the train set was emptied of 21,000 liters of water, so there was no readiness to extinguish the fire. Does the Council of State continue to believe that security and preparedness are well maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1205	I believe that security procedures and HMS are important in all parts of the business of the affairs of society. The representative’s question was based on the HMS declaration relating to acquisitions. I have explained that there is a clear and clear system, and that system is being followed up according to the Railway Station. If the Railway Authority considers that it is not being followed up, the Department must be informed by the Railway Authority. With regard to the individual operations carried out by the Railway Agency, I as owner assume that they follow the safety procedures in all parts of their operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1218	‘We are becoming more and more people in Norway, and the train sets are increasing, while very little has been done to repair the platforms accordingly. At many railway stations, the train sets do not fit all the vehicles on the platform, they either pass or stop, to a great extent to the detriment of passengers. We know that people get hurt when they have to jump off the train outside the platforms, because the terrain is not suitable for disembarkation. This is irresponsible. What will the Council of State do with passenger safety?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1225	Passenger safety is a priority. Under today's legislation, train companies are not allowed to disembark passengers outside the platforms. In case it happens, it's out of today's legislation. It is required by regulation that there be a platform for all the doors of the train used for boarding and disembarking. In high-traffic stations, it has been necessary to extend many of the platforms, since the new train sets are longer than the old ones. In recent years, the railway system has implemented extensive planning and deployment of platforms at a wide range of stations on most sections of the railway system. In addition, there are a number of stations and stops that will receive new or extended platforms in the coming years. The background for this has just been the desire for better access to the train, better and safer access conditions, and the introduction of a new long-distance ground route. In low-traffic stations and for short platforms, the train may be allowed to stop, sail if the platform is not long enough, but it is assumed that safety procedures are in place to provide a safe descent, including trains equipped with technical equipment to ensure that only the doors appropriate to the platform are opened when the train stops.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1234	Thanks for the answer. I know that the conductor or driver can lock the doors automatically if the platform is not long enough. This can also be done manually – many of the trains are so long that two conductors are required. Feedbacks we have received show that this is not happening, and that the doors are still being opened, to the great danger of passengers. Will the Council of State ensure that these measures are implemented so that they do not happen again? We know it's happened many times.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1243	If such a practice as is described here by the representative is actually taking place, it is not in line with the legislation. Then it conflicts with the current regulation. A lot of work has been done, and millions of dollars have been spent in recent years to extend the platforms – to prepare for longer trains. Where exemptions are granted, in stations where there is often little traffic, the doors shall be locked preferably by means of an automatic door locking. This makes it possible to get off at only those doors that fit the platform. I assume that the NSB is in this way related to the legislation that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1250	I thank you again for the answer. We know that the number of passengers who have been injured by jumping off the train where there is no platform is greater than the number that is registered. They told me that at the Railway Station when we were visiting there. Many people who are injured do not dare to report it or give notice – they may feel that they should not have jumped off from where the terrain was not suitable for it. In 2010, there were 122 platforms that were not long enough for NSB trains. 48 of these should have been repaired by the end of 2012. Therefore, I wonder if the Council of State knows whether this is effective, whether these 48 stations have been repaired, maybe how many are left?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1261	As I tried to say in my previous answer: the railway system has in recent years carried out a comprehensive repair and also planning of the repair of platforms at very many stations, almost on all sections of the railway system. In the years to come, there will also be continuous improvements to the sections of the East that depend on new ground routes, which are most time-critical, but also in less traffic stations, where there are too short platforms today. Some of these, however, must be exempted for a few years to come, but a system of locking doors is also imposed. I can't say exactly how many stations have been repaired in recent years, but there have been a lot of stations. It will also be in the years to come, otherwise you will have to have a derogation either by 2015 or by 2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1272	‘Security is important on the network. Today's signalling system is old, and there are problems in getting parts and people competent to handle it. The railway system is now testing a new ERTMS signalling system, which is used in many countries in Europe, on a short distance in Norway to gain experience. This may mean that safety and rail in Norway will be very vulnerable, until testing is completed and fully operational on the whole network. Can the Council of State ensure that today’s old installations are not a safety risk?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1279	It seems that a number of representatives from the Progress Party are concerned with railway safety issues today, and that is good. It is very important and has the highest priority on the network and it is essential for all activities relating to the infrastructure. According to the Railway Station, the reason why the signalling systems in Norway need to be renewed is not the increase in safety risks, but the existence of existing installations has reached their technological lifetime. Today's system is designed to cause a stop in case of unforeseen events. The railway works call it a fault to a safe condition. In other words, there are operational stability challenges that ensure that the new ERTMS signalling system is introduced on the network, not that safety is compromised.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1286	It is nice that the Council of State has come to the conclusion that the representatives of the Progress Party are concerned with the safety of the railway network. I think everyone who is a passenger on the railway network is also very concerned about that. But after asking the four questions I have asked, I am still a little uncertain about whether one should be safe or not to the answers given by the Council of State, both in terms of fire, length of stations, health, environment and safety and this facility. Operational stability is incredibly important, and we see that it's some of the big problem. Problems with the signalling system are often the fault that causes trains to fail. There's a hopeless situation to continue. When starting this test station from 2015, it is likely that it will take some time to keep it in operation before starting to expand. When does the Council expect us to have a new signalling system in place so that people can be sure that trains come and go when they are going to?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1293	ERTMS is the signalling system selected in European countries for the renewal of installations. It is a technological choice – one that chooses the same technological system across Europe. There is a wide variation in whether the European countries have actually begun to introduce ERTMS. It will take a long time before it is implemented in all European countries. The only country I know for the time being that has a plan for the deployment of the entire ERTMS is Denmark. But the government has decided that we are now going to try ERTMS on one route. The site will make a choice for the rest of the sections of the track and the Norwegian network. But, as I said, it is a system which is not primarily about safety, but about operational stability, and which will contribute to fewer delays and fairer maintenance on Norwegian rail in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1298	I am pleased with the answer from the State Council on ERTMS – one must make sure that there are correct letters here. It's a very important step, a quantum leap, for our network when we get it into place. We know it's a whole thing about both 10, 15 and maybe 20 billion. kr to get this in place on the entire network. We're also dealing with intercity expansion and we're discussing everything we can to see how to do it. We are waiting for what the government will present once in February or March, when the NTP is presented to the Stortinget. But I would like to challenge the Council of State: Has the Council of State considered a time perspective for how long she intends to spend on putting this important signalling system in place across the country? Denmark has a lot of ambition, they'll do it in a few years. But as far as I can see, the ambition here is that we will spend many years – the Council of State said in its previous reply that it will take many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1303	I said it would take many years for us to see ERTMS developed across Europe. I'd like to be quoted exactly when I'm going to be quoted. In the long term, it is necessary to replace the railway signalling system. As I have said in my answers, the reason for this is, above all, operational stability, not that security should be threatened. With regard to the question of the further development strategy, the representative probably knows very well that my answer to it will be that we will come back to it in a new national transport plan during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1312	So we go back to question 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1319	‘I refer to the articles in Eastlanden on 15 January, where Nav rejects an application from a highly weak mind for access to a course that can document his computer skills. He believes that the course can provide jobs as a service worker or data instructor, but is even sceptical about the job opportunities in a tight labour market. Nav has rejected the application for a course, as they do not see it likely that he will get to work with income. I think Nav should look at the possibilities and not reject him because of obstacles. What does the Council of State think about this kind of matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1326	High occupational participation and low unemployment are key objectives of Norwegian labour and welfare policies. Participation in the world of work brings a lot of benefits, and working life is a central gateway to community and community participation. Work gives income, and it's a social arena. The Government is committed to pursuing an active labour market policy and to facilitating employment-oriented assistance for people who are in the process of leaving or outside the labour market. An important part of this is to provide targeted and individualised assistance to people with disabilities. All those who turn to Nav and who want or need assistance to get to work have the right to assess their needs for assistance. Users who have been identified as having a need for assistance have the right to participate in the development of a concrete plan for how they can get to work. As part of this work, a need assessment and a performance assessment are carried out. Work-oriented measures are key tools for getting to work. Actions shall contribute to strengthening the opportunities for action participants to obtain or maintain work. I therefore fully agree with Giltun's representative that it is important to look at the possibilities. At the same time, participation in actions must be considered as necessary and appropriate in order to enable participants to obtain or retain gainful employment. The responsibility for implementing labour-oriented measures has been delegated to the State of Labour and Welfare. I cannot therefore go into the specific matter to which Mr Giltun refers. In general, however, I would like to stress that when assessing whether a measure is necessary and appropriate, it is included. emphasis on criteria such as health, fitness and work opportunities, as well as the motivation of the user. Participation in labour-oriented measures is not a right, but may be offered by Nav when it increases the possibility of getting into work. The need for labour-oriented measures is high, which means that the ETA must make certain adjustments in the allocation of measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1335	I thank you for the answer, which I interpret a little positively, to the point that it is important that Nav look at opportunities. In the case to which I refer – one has to draw up individual cases to illustrate a case – there is a 40-year-old man who is at his best age and who has not previously had the opportunity of this type of education, i.e. within data. He is, like many others, a person who is particularly good -- there are people who stand out especially in that area. He has helped many, he has assisted many and believes he himself can take some service assignments. The catch is that he can't get to full-time work. There's a lot of work to do when you're not out of work, you're 40 years old and you're almost blind. I therefore find it strange that Nav will not look at the possibility of giving him this competence that can make what he really can. In the next series, this will lead to better job opportunities. Don't the Council of State agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1342	Many people are motivated to take different courses within Nav. Some people get their wishes met, but not all, because a concrete assessment is to be made as to whether the action helps to get them out of work. For the general purpose of the representative, not all persons with disabilities can participate in 100 pst. – I believe that this is an unusually important goal. When we look at those who go on disability benefit today, nine out of ten are 100 pst. not carried out. Here, the possibilities are far more than those we exploit today. There are a lot more of these that can get into part of the work. It will therefore be a goal for Nav in the time to come, and also for the new disability pension to make it easier to combine disability and work. I respect the fact that the representative draws up individual cases, but I cannot deal with each case in a case from the Parliamentary Chair – that will not be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1351	I understand that very well. I believe the Council of State and I agree very much, especially that people must be allowed to try their way into work. The first step is to get the formal competence in order, get a paper on what you can. That's what this person wanted. He wanted a course that could be proof of what he really could do, and where he could get his knowledge up to date to get the opportunity to try – perhaps even self-employment. There is nothing in the way that disabled people can run individual businesses and work in the market. I demand an initiative from Nav, that they seize the opportunity to inspire those who come to Nav, to take education that can lead to work, maybe help them with a place somewhere, and help them get work experience. This person has not even been able to get a job in the Blind Alliance because of a lack of competence. He is a person who can contribute, and who will contribute to some extent, but who does not dare hope too much for himself. So I hope the Council of State will encourage Nav to look at such things with slightly different eyes than what they've done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1358	It is important that those who want to contribute have the opportunity to contribute. This is why this is important both for Nav and for all the rehab companies that are doing a very important job of qualifying more people for work. This is absolutely an important goal, but, as I said, not all of them are fulfilling their wishes. A concrete assessment shall be made of whether the course you want contributes to getting to work. So the users are supposed to be listening to, but participating in the course is not a right within Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1367	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘In the newspaper Nations of 19 December 2012, we were able, among other things, to read about cracks of over 200 pst. in farm taxing. Three rates on the same farm were 2.7 million, respectively. SEK 4,5 million. SEK and 5,6 million. kr. This is alarming both for the seller, the buyer and any financial institutions. What will the Council of State do to ensure that a tariff is as accurate as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1376	The tariffs referred to in the article have been applied by private valuers and are outside my remit. My responsibility, as Minister of Agriculture, is to apply for a concession under the Concession Act. In the case of the purchase of agricultural property, the municipality shall assess whether ‘the agreed price corresponds to a socially sound price development’. There are several circulars that tell how this price assessment is to be conducted. I believe that the reason for predictability for the seller and the purchaser in concession cases is well taken care of through these circulars. The municipality also has obligations to show in the decision how the price has been assessed. Applicants have professional responsibilities, including: they are responsible for the correctness of the tariffs they issue in relation to the market and the applicable rules. When the purchase concerns compulsory agricultural property, I expect that the valuers will use the guidelines applicable in such cases. As far as I am aware, over the years the agricultural authorities have set up when the appraisers and their organisations have needed training in the valuation of concession cases. I expect that the valuers will continue to contact the agricultural authorities whenever necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1387	I thank you for the presentation, or what we'll call it. It's strange that a person who asks for a fare on a simple, ordinary farm use like this is, where there is nothing to suggest that it should be difficult to tax, and where, as the Council of State says, you have a series of circulars and a code to deal with, you get three tariffs that crack with over 200 pst. - from $2.7 million. NOK to SEK 5.6 million. kr, i.e. above double. Then there must be something wrong. Either there is something wrong with the legislation – that it is not clear enough – or it is the valuers who are not good enough, or there must be something that does not come out in this report. But I've also heard of other, somewhat similar cases, where fares can crack relatively much. That makes it alarming for both the seller, the buyer, and the financial institutions you usually need to finance such a purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1394	There has been a TV program, as the representative Bredvold has probably also seen, about the taxiing of private homes and apartments. You can see how big a crack there is in private homes and apartments. And an agricultural property is much more complex to value than a private home. As long as there are private valuers who make the assessments, we can end up with different assessments, whether it's an agricultural property or an ordinary private dwelling. We'll have to live with that. However, it must be a great wish of the valuers that they have the best possible knowledge of the market and that they also have the best possible knowledge of concession law, so that they get the most precise tariffs possible. It would have been an advantage, but as the Council of State, I have no authority to go into regulating the assessment of the various objects by private valuers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1399	I fully agree that the Council of State should have no authority to regulate this. But my question is whether the Council of State is concerned that a fare on a farm can crack so much. When something makes the fare so varied, it can help destroy the market both for those who want to sell and for those who want to buy. You're a little worried about whether the fare is really right. You get a fare, and then the buyer is unsure if it's the right fare. Do I dare invest in this? And the seller is uncertain whether he gets what the farm is really worth according to the circulars, regulations etc. We have. What matters is whether the Council of State is concerned about this. It's at least not a positive thing, I think. When referring to the TV programme, there was some form of competition, where they came from outside — from another village, another city or other part of Norway — and were to tax. It might be a little bit different than this, but I understand the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1406	I don't think I and the representative of Bredvold disagree so fundamentally on this issue. Of course, it would have been an advantage for those who are in this market, that it was as even as possible. Then there are probably some tax collectors who are more conservative than others – of the older variety and the younger variety – and many different reasons why it becomes like it does. For example, the framework we now have under the concession law in force is: How much you can value the housing component, and how much the land can make — based on an agricultural assessment — so we have some insights into it. But it's clear that within those envelopes, there's a lot of sense, and I think a lot of us have noticed that there's a lot of inequalities. Then we get to hope that the valuers and others work well together, so that there will be the most correct pricing in relation to the market demand, and the framework we as the authorities have set.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1411	Case No. So 2 is done. The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 12:47. ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1425	The size continues the handling of the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1437	In the morning of 16 January, Norway was exposed to international terrorism. The gas production plant in In Amenas, Algeria, was brutally attacked. It was an evil, wild act. Work from Algeria, Japan, the United Kingdom, the United States, France, Norway and several other countries became innocent victims. Several dozen people were killed. Our deepest compassion goes to those who were struck by the tragedy. Our thoughts are with the victims, their relatives and all employees in Statoil, both outside and at home. We mourn those who have lost their loved ones, we share the relief of those who have received their homes alive and the despair of those who still have to live in uncertainty. This is the worst attack in peacetime on Norwegian economic interests outside Norway. But it's more than that. It is a violent attempt to paralyze legitimate and legitimate international businesses and a threat to peaceful cooperation between people from different countries. For the government it was important to give clear notice immediately. Terrorists are not going to succeed in achieving their goals. They should not determine how we live, where Norwegian companies operate, or which countries we cooperate with. Nor shall they succeed in spreading general fear. This is essential for Norway to remain Norway: an open democracy, a free people. I therefore very much appreciate coming to Stortinget so quickly and informing about the government's handling of the crisis. With the clear reservation that there may be new information, I would like to make a statement based on the information we now have. The terrorist action against the gas production plant in In Amenas started in the morning on Wednesday 16 January at. 05.40. The plant is operated by Statoil in cooperation with British BP and Algerian Sonatrach. A terrorist organisation called ‘Blood-signers’, led by Mokhtar Belmokhtar, has assumed responsibility for the operation. The group is assumed to have advance analyses for Al Qaida. There must have been about 800 persons on site at the time of the attack, of which about 135 were non-Algerian citizens. 17 of these work for Statoil. 13 were Norwegian. The situation of 5 of our countrymen is still undecided. At the time the terrorists started the attack, some of the employees stayed in a common residential area, others in the production plant itself. These are about three and a half kilometers apart. Terrorists first attacked two buses on their way to the airport. Then they attacked the neighborhood and the manufacturing plant. They took hostages both places. Algerian forces arrived shortly after the attack. The hostages shall have threatened to execute hostages in the event of action by the forces of the authorities. There were several gun exchanges. On Thursday 17 January in the morning, five cars moved from the residential area towards the production plant. We're assuming there was an attempt by the hostages to move a group of hostages to the production plant. Had they succeeded, the hostages would have achieved a significant strategic advantage. However, Algerian security forces opened fire to the cars, and all five cars were stopped before they arrived. A number of hostages found in the vehicles were killed during this operation. The same applies to several of the hostages. In a conversation I had with Prime Minister Sellal at 5 p.m. 12.15. He informed me that the action was in progress. I immediately briefed interested state councils and Statoil's management. On Thursday afternoon and Friday 18 January, Algerian forces searched the residential area. At the same time, they mapped the movements of the hostages inside the production plant. In the middle of the day on Saturday 19 January, the Algerian authorities informed the Foreign Minister Espen Barth Eide that they had succeeded in getting full control of the entire area. The terrorists were well-organized and heavily armed. Among other things, they were equipped with explosives. They promoted more demands, and they changed slightly during the action. The release of hundreds of imprisoned extreme Islamists and the withdrawal of the Algerian army from the area were preliminary demands. Later, they demanded buses to carry themselves and hostages to Mali for the exchange of prisoners. Then they demanded the release of Al Qaida prisoners in the United States. Since they failed to do this, there is a lot of evidence that they tried to blow up the production plant itself, and at the same time kill hostages and themselves. When they began to execute hostages, Algerian authorities decided to deploy the security forces. According to Algeria's Prime Minister, the official death rates for foreign hostages are currently 37. In addition, 5 missing persons are mentioned which have not yet been explained. Norway has been in constant contact with Algerian authorities throughout the crisis. It was essential to keep getting information, and at the same time conveying our views, wishes and advice. We have been careful from Norway to draw conclusions on the handling of the situation by Algerian authorities. We first wanted to get a better picture of the disaster and what the authorities were facing. Managing a hostage situation with more than 30 hostages and a large number of hostages is a very demanding task for any country. In addition, the attack took place in one of the world's most desolate areas. What is clear, however, is that the responsibility for human suffering lies entirely with the terrorists. We will continue the discussions and close contact with the Algerian authorities. In this contact, we will discuss how we can cope with the crisis and what we can learn from it. We also want a dialogue on how Norway can assist Algeria in its efforts against Islamic fundamentalism and terrorism. Our embassy in Algiers was notified of the attack by Statoil on Wednesday morning at noon. 07.30. The embassy contacted the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which put a crisis stop just after 9 p.m. Nine o'clock. Such a loss of crisis is used to manage events that are too extensive for normal staffing. The crisis staff consists of staff from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who are particularly trained to deal with acute crises. The crisis team includes employees, so-called liasons, from the Health Directorate, the police and the Defence. These also had their own crisis rods. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs’ crisis loss decided early on Wednesday morning to send a liaison to Statoil’s preparedness organisation. It was also decided to send an enhanced call-out team to the embassy in Algiers with staff from the department, police, defence and health services. In order to ensure optimal and effective contact with all involved, the Liaisons were invited from Statoil, the Prime Minister’s Office and the most affected departments to the U.D. crisis loss. The crisis staff had ongoing contact with Statoil and with our embassies in Algiers, London, Paris, Washington, Tokyo and Berlin, and with colleagues at the crisis centres in other affected countries. During the crisis, the government focused on keeping the Storting as well-oriented as possible. I kept in touch with the prime minister and the party leaders. The Minister of Foreign Affairs contacted the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence early on Wednesday morning, and kept her continuously informed throughout the crisis. He gave a brief brief briefing to the Stortinget in plenary the following morning. That afternoon he gave a broader review of the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence at Stortinget. The necessary resources were mobilised as early as possible. The order was rather to mobilize too much, and then divert, rather than lose time. The aim was to ensure the most effective management of the crisis. In addition to the central crisis management in Oslo and at the embassy, several other agencies have contributed. The responsibility of the intelligence service is to provide information and assessments as a basis for policy decisions. This is done on a rolling basis. In connection with the terrorist action, the contributions from the E service were of great value. The e-service had close contact with collaborative services, and contributed to the Norwegian authorities being well informed of the situation throughout the crisis. For security reasons, we couldn't go out with this information. A lot still can't be shared. The defense also made three aircraft available. Two of these were equipped for emergency medical treatment and evacuation. One flight contributed to the transportation of the U.S. Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Another aircraft was contracted from SAS for emergency medical treatment and evacuation and entered an international air bridge to ensure rapid evacuation to Algiers. From the Norwegian side, it was made clear that evacuation had to be based on medical needs and not on nationality or other conditions. The plane was among the first foreign machines to land in Algiers, and was ready to assist before reaching such a point. The plane brought with it surgical trauma teams, and had both intensive and stretcher areas for evacuation of injuries. The plane landed in In Amena's Saturday night. 12:35. Due to the high medical standard of both personnel and equipment, there remained to treat damage that arrived. Persons with minor damage were carried out on other aircraft. Nationals of other countries were given equal access to assistance from Norwegian personnel after medical assessment on the spot. We raised the preparedness for the relevant forces in the Defense, including our special forces. For the government it was important to plan for all possibilities, even though we considered it unlikely that these capacities would actually be used. Norwegian police and PST contributed with expertise in both negotiation and identification work. Several politicians are now in Algeria to assist the authorities with identification. All the dead are now transported to Algiers, and the identification work has begun. Throughout the crisis, health authorities have given advice to Statoil on psychosocial follow-up of the relatives. They have been competent from relevant professional environments and from the affected counties and municipalities. I would like to extend a great deal of thanks to all those who have worked continuously to save lives, and who professionally and carefully follow up the relatives: police, defense, health professionals, intelligence, staff in the departments and underlying offices, staff in the foreign service, and, in particular, the staff in Statoil. They're all making an effort there's a lot of respect for. Throughout the crisis, there has been good contact between the relevant state councils and Statoil's management. Statoil and its employees are in the midst of a very difficult situation. I want to commend the company's management of the crisis and its relatives. During the acute phase of the crisis, several meetings were held among the relevant state councils and in the Government Security Committee. The first meeting of the most concerned state councils took place on Wednesday at 9 a.m. 13:00. At this meeting, action was outlined and new decisions were taken on our national crisis management. The first meeting of the Crisis Council took place immediately after. The Crisis Council consists of senior officials from several departments and met five times during the first four days of the crisis. From the outset — and throughout the crisis — it has been important to ensure that all the necessary resources were made available to ensure life and health, both to our own citizens and to those affected. But the responsibility for dealing with the terrorist attack and the situation in Algeria was always with the Algerian authorities. Both Norway and other countries offered ongoing assistance of different kinds. However, it was up to the Algerian authorities to decide what kind of assistance they wanted. Throughout the crisis, we have had extensive dialogue and cooperation with the countries concerned. I have been in close contact with the Prime Minister of Algeria, the President of France and colleagues of Prime Minister from the United Kingdom and Japan. Foreign Minister Barth Eide has had daily discussions with his Algerian colleague and has had ongoing dialogue with other colleagues. Our common message to Algerian authorities has been to underline the importance of showing restraint and caring for the lives and health of hostages. Furthermore, we asked the Algerian authorities to take great care in any action to release the hostages and secure the production facility. Overall, we experience contact with the Algerian authorities as good. In the capital of Algiers, there has been close cooperation between the countries that have had hostages on the site. They have met Algerian authorities at both the level of office and the political level. Also in In Amenas, there has been close contact and coordination between the embassies in order to ensure as effective cooperation on the ground as possible. It has also proved to be of great importance for medical evacuation and for identifying fatalities and injuries. In accordance with established guidelines, an overall evaluation of crisis management will be carried out. This will be thorough and complementary. At the same time, I would like to stress that the work has not been completed. We will therefore come back to how this will be done, in particular with a view to providing the best possible advice to Norwegian interests in areas at risk in the rest of the world. We will consider different ways to advise Norwegian companies on how to address their security challenges abroad. The Government is working on measures to strengthen cooperation between the Police Security Service and the Intelligence Service. The aim is to further strengthen the ability to prevent, detect and combat terrorist threats against Norway and Norwegian citizens and foreign interests. Let me expand the perspective. The ability of terrorists to operate with bases in so-called weak state formations is a major challenge. It shows the experience of Afghanistan and the attack on the United States on 11 September 2001. To combat terrorism, we need a broad strategy that includes political, economic, legal and military instruments. We have to be long-term, while meeting the challenges we face here and now. We also need to look at actions that affect the sources of funding. The terrorist action in Algeria must be understood in the context of the crisis taking place in large parts of the Sahel region of northern Africa. This region is characterised by political unrest, corruption, weak state structures, weak territorial control and what can be called porous borders. In this region, we have seen the emergence of transnational terrorist networks – with Al Qaida in Maghreb as a central player. After Gaddafi's fall, large quantities of weapons and advanced equipment have been available. At the same time, well-trained mercenaries have come to this area. In a combination of weak government structures, this has given ground to militant jihadists and strong criminal networks. These are groupings that often go into each other. There is an increased recruitment from the region and beyond, often with combat experience from other conflict areas. There is also very worrying information on ever closer cooperation between terrorist groups in this area and further west, towards the Horn of Africa and further into the Middle East. Norway has been engaged in North Africa for a long time. We have supported the people's desire for democracy and social development. About a year ago, for the first time, we designated a special mission for this area, and during the foreign minister's visit to the African Union headquarters in December, crisis management was high on the agenda. The crisis in Mali presents itself as a challenge. Military Islamists have taken control of northern parts of the country. The UN Security Council has underlined that this poses a threat to international peace and security and has authorised an African peacekeeping force under the leadership of the West African Association ECOWAS. This force shall be headed by Africa. In parallel with this, EU-led training of Malian security forces is being undertaken. This EU contribution shall not participate in combat operations but shall only help with capacity building. The EU has not clarified its contribution. Questions have been raised about Norwegian support for the EU’s efforts. No decisions have been taken on the Norwegian side. The size will normally be consulted if appropriate. We want to strengthen political dialogue with the countries of North Africa, and we want to help build sustainable social structures that can withstand the pressure of jihadists and organised crime. Norway has a small and open economy. Throughout history, we have been more dependent on trade and economic relations than many other countries. In the pact with this tradition, Statoil and other Norwegian companies are operating worldwide today. They must if we are to continue to be an open, international and competitive economy. In Amenas is a reminder that international terrorism can be a threat to peaceful business. We will use political, legal and economic means against those who want to destroy the open trade of free nations. Fortunately, we are not alone; many countries share our vision. But there is now a need to strengthen the international community’s overall fight against terrorism – political, economic and military. Norway will contribute to this. Prime Minister David Cameron and I agree to meet to discuss both the current crisis and how Norway and the United Kingdom can work together for a more comprehensive international effort against international terrorism. In parallel, we will continue to work in the UN and, through committed international cooperation, to combat the financing of terrorism. In addition, it is important to recognise that international terrorists do not spare any country or peace any people. That is why we are strengthening the police and our national crisis management organisation. This time it was in Algeria. Next time, it could be with us. We must stand at best armed against a terrorist attack on Norwegian soil. Finally, Norway has long and proud international traditions. The brutal terrorist attack in In Amenas is an attack on these traditions and thus on the North that has always traveled the world: militants, seafarers, relief workers, students, businessmen and all who have served in military missions in Afghanistan, Lebanon, Kosovo and elsewhere. Every now and then, they have usurped Norway into a free world. The shots in In Amenas are an estimate of their efforts, their commitment. We don't accept that. We have to answer by agreeing whether the ideals of extremists of all kinds want to destroy: democracy, freedom, humanity. We're never going to give in to terrorists. We're always going to stand up for our ideals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1538	Under the second paragraph of Section 43 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, the President will now propose opening a short comment round, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and a closing statement from the Prime Minister. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1543	Let me start by thanking the Prime Minister for a thorough account of the terrorist attack in Algeria. The terrible hostage action is over, but the event will affect us for a long time to come. Our warmest thoughts go to the relatives. We feel strongly about the hundreds of people who have ended up in the violence of the hostages and who survived the terror nightmare, but who must live on with inhumane impressions and experiences. Our thoughts go on to Statoil and all the employees of the company, who still have to live in uncertainty about the fate of good colleagues. Even though the event took place far away, we experience it as very close. It concerns – and concerns – many of our countrymen and their families. It is during such crises that we notice that Norway is a small country. Many of us know someone who is directly affected by the terror, and it hurts. In the face of terrorists who do not respect human life and human dignity, responsible authorities face very demanding and fateful choices. With the use of weapons, innocent lives can be lost. However, it is very important to maintain that terrorists are responsible for the tragic outcome. Unfortunately, the hostage action in Algeria is an example of the rapid movement of terror and terrorists across borders, which is why the fight against terrorism is demanding. In the last year, Northern Malta has become a sort of haven for example. religious extremists who have tried to take over the whole of Mali. Today, Norway is providing assistance to Mali, and in the light of today’s situation, it is natural to consider strengthening this assistance. With regard to the issue of any Norwegian military contribution in Mali, I would like to refer to the Prime Minister's statement and state that the Workers' Group supports the assessments made. It is also important that the international community contributes to the weakening of the ground for extremism and terrorism. We must help prevent young people from being recruited into the ranks of terrorists. Contributions to the development of democratic rule of law in North Africa and the Middle East are important. People who experience democracy, freedom, well-being and economic development gain more faith in the future and less faith in extreme ideology and extremism. The primary responsibility for creating safe and democratic development in Mali rests ultimately on the authorities and the inhabitants of the country and the region. We expect democratic elections to be facilitated in Mali, and new attempts by governments and rebel groups to engage in dialogue. We strongly condemn terrorism. Terrorists hit innocent people by killing. At the same time, terrorists' intention is to spread fear in their own societies and in the rest of the world. They are trying to dictate our political agenda and economic activity, and we must not allow them to do so. We should not be afraid to participate politically, economically and humanitarianly in an increasingly globalized world. The presence of Norwegian businesses is to remain abroad. Then we don't have to be naive. In many places, there is a risk of operating. Norwegian businesses must have good safety measures when they are in risky countries, and Norwegian authorities must provide the best possible advice. In the fight against terrorism, international cooperation on intelligence and surveillance must be strengthened. Acute terrorist threats and events must be met with firmness and power and with an objective of bringing terrorists to justice. During the terrorist action, the Norwegian authorities and Statoil made a solid effort to bring clarity to a very inconspicuous situation and to bring loose and injured hostages home to Norway. Crisis management has worked well both in the U.D., with other authorities and services and in Statoil. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and other authorities for the way they have dealt with the situation. I also appreciate the way the government has constantly informed the Storting about the situation in Algeria.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1571	Let me also start by thanking the Prime Minister for a very thorough presentation based on the information you can now share. I think that's important to emphasize. We respect the fact that there is still information that, for various reasons, cannot yet be shared. However, we believe it is important – as the Prime Minister also warned – that there will be an overall evaluation that will enable the Stortinge to go into this whole complex more thoroughly. I think that's important, but then based on that we all know the facts. I would like to commend the government for dealing with this very difficult situation, both in terms of emergency preparedness, and in terms of handling and care in relation to the relatives and those who have been directly affected. But I also want to thank for the ongoing dialogue that both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have had with Stortinget. We've appreciated that very much, because it's made it possible for us to relate to a very demanding news picture, of which very much of what was reported at times, turned out not to be true. It is important that the opposition also has a responsibility in such demanding cases. Then we appreciate that the government shares the information. I think it's important to also praise Statoil. Of course, they have been in a very difficult situation, given that so many of their employees have been affected. We've seen the care they've shown. I just want to stress that that, I think, has also been appreciated by all of us who have just sat and followed this and felt completely powerless. We cannot opt out to fight Islamists. I noticed the Prime Minister's very clear message that more means must be used here, both political, economic, legal and military. I agree. But there is therefore effort in all of these areas to decide whether we succeed in this struggle, which is international, and which unfortunately can affect us all. So we don't know when it hits and where the next event can occur. That's why we also have a responsibility to set up, to participate and to contribute. I believe it is absolutely essential that the Norwegian authorities send a clear and clear message that we are ready to set up. How we set up, and with what capacities, we get back to. I noticed that the government will consult Stortinget about this. That's good. However, it must never be left to the impression that Norway is not prepared to take its responsibilities. We're not going to let ourselves be threatened with silence, we're not going to put our activity out or at home because of terror or terrorist threats, and we have to work with all the nations that share our values like freedom, independence and democracy. As a great energy nation, we also have a significant responsibility and a special interest in going after those responsible, especially after this cruel incident in In Amenas. Of course, we have no desire on our part to engage Norway in a new long-term war, but neither can we stand to allow Islamists to gain free play. I would therefore just like to stress the responsibility of Norway to contribute. I just want to repeat what I said, that how, with what and how long do we get to come back to when the government has assessed what capacities are available. In conclusion, I just want to thank you again for getting this statement so quickly, but not completely, but based on the information we now have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1586	I would first like to thank the Prime Minister for his presentation. Now, after the attack, it's important that we can both analyze and process what's happened, and draw the consequences of it. Openness to the most complete information is a crucial factor in that work. Last week's events in Algeria have left us all embossed. A brutal terrorist attack has once again hit the international community, and this time it also hit us. Many people are killed, and more are still missing. Five of those who are still missing are our countrymen. It makes an improperly special impression, and our thoughts and our deepest compassion go to those who are affected, to their families and to the relatives. Those who were present and survived the attack have experienced extreme stress — great physical and mental stress. These at home who are still waiting for the final answer, experience terrible days of uncertainty and anxiety. For us, it has been important to give the government jobs in an extremely demanding situation. Such a crisis we must meet together. On this occasion I will also be allowed to give my and Right Recognition both to the government and to Statoil's management for sound and reliable crisis management and for good communication both to the public and to the Stortinget. I also want to thank all the hundreds of people who have been involved in handling and made a huge effort. It must now be brought to the fore what has really happened. There is a need for maximum knowledge and transparency about the actual course of events. The affected must have peace and room to deal with shock and grief. They involved and we as society have to learn from the attack and make sure that we stand even better rusted the next time such a serious incident takes place. We condemn the strongest terrorism and violence that affects innocents, and it is a common responsibility to fight those who believe that they can win out with violence and terror as instruments. The Prime Minister has been foreshadowed by the fact that we should not allow ourselves to be pressured or intimidated by forces that are willing to use violence to achieve their goals, whether those objectives are economic, political or based on some perverted interpretation of religion. In this area, he has full support from the Right. Violence and threats can never drive us to isolation and withdrawal, because then the rapists win. Insulation at home is also no guarantee of absolute security, which we have also experienced in our near past. On the other hand, we need to learn from these types of serious events: better prevention, even more accurate risk analysis, reinforced crisis management and cooperation with partners and allies to combat international terrorism – and not least we need to learn that all risks can never be eliminated completely independently of our wishes and preventive actions. We can never protect ourselves from everything. That acceptance is also important in order for us as a society to be able to react constructively when the crises occur. The Prime Minister mentioned the possibilities for a military contribution in his presentation. From our point of view, it is important to say that it is not entirely related to the issues of the operation in Algeria if Norway is to contribute to Mali. Norwegian policy has been to support the work done to ensure that Mali can have a democratic and peaceful development. Political support was in line with the Security Council resolution before the situation in Algeria, and in line with what our allies USA, the United Kingdom and the EU have done. Concrete contributions to the situation should be further discussed, in line with any formal requests for assistance. Then I expect the government to come to Stortinget and consult on this in the ordinary way. We have already given political support – before Algeria – and continue to support what the Security Council has also recommended in the case of Mali. But we have to make sure that we do it in a way that is about cooperation with all the international authorities and in line with international law in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1603	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for a good account and for good and wise leadership through heavy and demanding days. Statoil's relatives' centre at Kokstad, Bergen, has been the meeting place for returnees, families and relatives in the past week. The rest of us can only imagine what kind of uncertainty and fear, what kind of pressure those who have experienced the terror either in Algeria or as relatives at home in Norway have had. The most important thing right now is the care of those who are affected, and that is with them our thoughts are today. The work to make sure of what has happened to our countrymen in In Amenas must go on. Both Statoil and the authorities deserve tribute for their efforts both to save as much as possible and for the follow-up of the families here at home. We strongly condemn the cowardly terrorist attack. There is no thing that can justify attacks on innocent civilians. We've seen victims being selected alone because of their national affiliation, and we've seen a indifference to other people's lives that is deeply shocking in all their rawness. It is a fundamentalism and the ideology of hate that drives the terrorists – an ideology that blinds all humanity and that cultivates violence and dictatorship. In his inaugural speech this week, the president of the United States said that a decade of war is coming to an end. Let's hope he gets right in it. A decade of war on terror has not created a world without terror. Fundamentalists can rarely be convinced that they are wrong, but we can help develop a world where it becomes more difficult to hate. It's about creating developments where there's stagnation today. It's about distributing where today there's hopeless injustice. It's about creating functioning states and institutions where there's currently madness and corruption. It's about creating democratic participation where today there are authoritarian regimes that oppress their own people. There is often a lack of hope that gives ground for hatred. In Norway, we must continue to do what we can, among other things. through development policy, business cooperation, security cooperation and support for the establishment of functioning institutions to create hope. On the issue of Norwegian contributions in various forms to Mali, I refer you to what the Prime Minister has said – a decision if it has not been taken. All parties in the Storting must further discuss how Norway can contribute both to the fight against terrorism and to the promotion of democracy in different parts of the world. We now know too well what terror is, in our little country. We know that we have a job to do here at home as well. Extremism is among us in various ideological phenomena. Here, too, there are those who swear for dictatorships and romanticize violence. They're marginal, they represent few others than themselves, but we've learned that even that can be dangerous. The police have their part of the job of stopping extremism here at home, but we elected people also have an important task. We have to put the floodlight on those who spread the hat. We have to make sure that their arguments never stand undisputed, and that poison does not spread in our society without resistance. Security of the values we stand for, and firmness in dealing with all extremism, must be our way forward both at home and outside. The most important thing today is to remember those who went away in In Amenas. We think of those who are still waiting again about their missing loved ones, and we send our solidarity and our warmest thoughts to all those who have been affected differently by the senseless and evil violence in Algeria.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1624	I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for a thorough presentation. That international terrorism has hit us so brutally, gives us all good reason for reflection. We must condemn those who, in this low way, directly attack innocent Norwegian and foreign families. We must also condemn and oppose those who, in their stupidity, support such criminal acts, whether they be Northmen or others. We shall ring around freedom of expression, but freedom of expression must not be allowed to be abused. The fight against increasing international terrorism must be waged in many different ways – not only militarily, but primarily politically. The international community must be united on this in the future. By contributing to political development, economic development and the development of democracy, the development of such terrorism can, hopefully, be changed or stopped over time. At least we must never lose faith in this. But in its ultimate consequence, of course, it may be necessary to use counter-power. Borderless terrorists using advanced weapons against innocent people all over the world must be stopped if weapons are to be used. The international family must work together to counter this both politically, economically and militarily. Norwegian families and Statoil have been brutally hit. We have all lived with and felt with all those who have been so hard hit, and who have lived through, and have experienced, uncertainty and sorrow. Our thoughts go first and foremost to the innocent families who have faced this senseless terror and violence. In such cases, it is important that employers, the political system, friends, family and the local community set up and support those affected. It is an important part of the Norwegian social system to deal with such serious situations. Our impression is that Statoil, by its management and organisation, has otherwise done what it has been possible to care for its own employees and their families. This formidable effort shall have our honor. I'm both happy and proud that this is done in a professional and close manner. The political system has also been set up. The government and large parts of public Norway with the Prime Minister and the foreign minister in charge have done a formidable job. I would like to commend swift follow-up, participation, compassion, information and safe management in this crisis. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise further the importance that the government and Statoil both in words and actions put in high regard the hostages and the employees they could not account for. In such a situation, there is a great need for information, but the most important thing is that correct information is provided in a timely manner. The way this was handled, I will once again give praise for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1641	Let me first thank the Prime Minister for his statement on the terrorist action in Algeria. It is both right and important that the Great Council, as the country's elected assembly, be informed directly when terror so strongly affects our nation. Many lives were lost. Employees from a number of countries were the victims of murders of the bestials. A human life is equally valuable regardless of nationality. But it's only when death affects one that's close to us, that we have the power to take it fully over us. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I will express our deepest condolences to those who are framed. The feeling and the pressures are enormous for families and friends who still live with the uncertainty about the fate of whom they are so deeply pleased. In meeting with the terrorist action, we have experienced a nation of concern. Let me express my thanks for the efforts that Statoil has made. In the same way, I would like to thank the government, the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and the many representatives from the agencies involved – health services, police, priests, psychologists and many others who have been involved in various ways. As the Prime Minister pointed out in the presentation, the terrorist action in Algeria raises several security policy issues that need an answer. The safety of large installations abroad that are operated in whole or in part by Norwegian companies must be assessed. In Norwegian land and offshore installations in Norway, Norwegian authorities have a clearly defined responsibility. In the rest of the world, responsibility lies with the authorities of the host country. But Norwegian companies must also take their share of the responsibility for security. We need to discuss how we can help companies to improve their ability to handle changing threat images. It is wise for Statoil to review its risk exposure. The State that owns Statoil also has a responsibility. International terrorism is a threat to all of us and must be combated jointly. When it comes to a strategy for countering terrorism, the international community needs to think in terms of a holistic and long-term perspective. Military means are necessary against military enemies, but weapons alone are not enough. It is unsustainable to believe that one can bomb the terrorist threat in Africa or Afghanistan. Everyone should have learned that from the past decade's experience. Instead, long-term and coordinated intelligence efforts are needed to track down terrorists, a need for cross-border police cooperation, state building and societal development. The capacity to ensure the law and order before the rule of law has to be built up in the countries themselves. Then there is a need for legitimate and democratic governments with which the international community can cooperate. Let me make it very clear that the Christian People's Party regards militant jihadist Islamism as a dangerous ideology, which sees terrorism in systems and abuses religion in the justification of despicable acts. This cannot be excused, it must be consistently and actively countered. The threat of terror that these represent, we shall work against it together, but what Norway can and should contribute to such a whole-hearted terrorist development, we will come back to. The Christian People's Party is critical of Norwegian involvement in the operation in Mali as things stand today. Clock decisions require good preconception. The Christian People's Party expects that the Stortinget will normally be presented with the necessary basis for the decision before we decide on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1660	I would also like to start by thanking the Prime Minister for a good presentation, and I would like to thank him for his good efforts and information both from the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs during the process. Then, on behalf of us in the Left, I will also express our deepest compassion – our thoughts go to those who have been struck, both to those who may bear an eternal loss, and to those who will be forever marked by the stories and experiences they will carry. I want to thank Statoil and all the others who have made an effort that has been so strong that we, who have been outside, have felt confident that people have been taken care of. The feeling of guilt and responsibility is very clearly placed, it is always important to evaluate the job you have done. The fact that we did the last time we met a big challenge abroad, as the tsunami was, made enough that we might have gotten better at dealing with the challenge this time. That's why it's an important process. It is also important to see the importance of a good e-service, which the Prime Minister said was of great value. I think it's going to be even more important in the future to tackle these kinds of challenges, which we're probably going to meet again in different disguises. When it comes to clarifying the story of what happened, step by step, in Algeria, I think it is the people concerned who are allowed to define what questions it is important for them to get answers to to the everyday life they are going to live in, and the questions they are going to live with later in life. This time it hit a large Norwegian company, a company that is prepared that there may be crises, both created by people who want to, and also accidents. But we also have many small Norwegian companies that act abroad, and it is important that we have systems that enable them to tackle such challenges, because violence, terror and crime will affect our business life in an increasingly smaller world, and we need to become better at dealing with and living with a world that challenges us both in terms of terrorism, extremism and ordinary crime. But we have to do that together with the other democracies, by strengthening the values that we actually stand for. It is important that terrorism never threaten open democracies, never threaten trade and economic relations. Terrorism has always been found, in different forms, at different times, really in infinite times, but countries should learn to fight for the values that you are willing to stand for. It is important not to fight it by preventing opinions, but we can fight it with e.g.: to prevent cash flows, including from Norway — but not to prevent free trade. We're going to be willing to fight for our values to the limit. We're also going to be willing to raise weapons for them, but then we're going to think about it. Then it's going to be the basis of international law, then there's going to be cooperation in the international community that fights for the same values. It must be thorough and well thought out in this Chamber as well. And now we're going to remember that we're going to be willing to stand up for ours when everyday life comes back, because it does for those who are now moving back to their municipality, to their circle of associates. Then we're going to be good communities that take care of people, even when the flashlights turn off. It is also a challenge for the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1677	Let me first of all thank you for the support of an overall increase. It is a strength of our country that we stand together in this kind of crisis situation. It strengthens our ability in many ways. It strengthens not least our ability to provide care and warmth to the people who are affected, those who live in uncertainty, and those who are directly affected by the terrorist attack in In Amenas. In addition, it strengthens our ability to stand up to terror. It strengthens our ability to be firm in rejecting that we should be forced to change our behaviour, our way of life and the way in which to be the result of terrorist threats and actions. It also makes us even better able to escalate our efforts against terrorism. As others have stressed, it is about many types of instruments. It's about political instruments, it's about economic instruments, it's about social development, it's about state building, and it's of course also about the use of security services and military means of power. This is a work we are in the process of stepping up, both international and national efforts. We have seen in this crisis the importance of both the Intelligence Service and the PST, and we also see how closely the problems we experience in international terrorism are linked to the lack of state formation, the lack of democracy and freedom, and that it contributes to the creation of a ground for terrorism. It adjusts the scope of measures and instruments that need to be taken to combat extremism and terrorism. Norway is more dependent on international trade than most other countries. Norway has a small, open economy. We have shipping, we have long trade traditions, and as an energy nation we also operate in very many countries. This makes us particularly interested in actions that can strengthen cooperation and the fight against international terrorism. Among the themes that I will discuss include: with Prime Minister Cameron, is how we, as two energy nations, can achieve even better cooperation, exchange information, preparedness and knowledge on how to prevent and prevent similar terrorist actions in the future, but also deal with them if similar situations arise again. Of course, we also want to contact the companies, both the big ones and the small ones. There are also many small enterprises operating abroad. One of the things we're going to do after this crisis is go through all the routines and all the work we do on the part of the authorities to advise and guide Norwegian businesses. It is Norwegian enterprises that ultimately have to take responsibility for the projects, investments and decisions they are making, but they will receive the guidance and assistance from the Norwegian authorities that we are able to provide them. But my main message today is that I thank you for the support of a total big deal. It makes us even stronger both to show care and to stand up to the terror and everything it stands for, in the fight for our values.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1691	The debate on the presentation ended. The President will propose that the Prime Minister's statement on the terrorist attack in Algeria be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-23.ana.ud2664e1706	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
