ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e49	Four permit applications are available: – from representatives Jørund Rytman, Kristian Norheim and Regina Alexandrova on leave from 6 January to 10 January – all to participate in an information course at the Swedish Defence College – from Knut Arild Hareide on parental leave from 7 January to 27 March, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: – For Buskerud County: Tone Heimdal Brataas 7–9. January – For Hordaland County: Astrid Aarhus Byrknes 7 January–27. March – For Telemark County: Gry-Anette Rekanes Amundsen 7.-9. January – For Troms County: Kristian Støback Wilhelmsen 7.–9. January
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e105	The Storting has received a letter from the Prime Minister’s Office dated 13 December 2013 on the temporary transfer of responsibility for coordination of EEA matters and relations with the EU. Having regard to the Royal Resolution, the following information shall be disclosed: ‘The City Council of Vidar Helgesen shall terminate leave for the period from 28 December 2013 until 22 January 2014. At that time, the State Council of Helgesen has taken over the responsibility of Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende for coordinating EEA matters and relations with the EU, including responsibility for the EEA Agreement and related management tasks. He also assumes responsibility for managing the tasks of the Department of Europe and Trade of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in EU and EEA matters, as well as other tasks related to EU and EEA matters in other parts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. [[excluding climate and forest action]] Foreign Minister Brende retains responsibility for other parts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the period.» The President proposes that the letter from the Prime Minister's Office be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. The representative, Mr Tvedt Solberg, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e121	On behalf of the representatives of Jonas Gahr Støre, Marianne Marthinsen and myself, I would like to propose a representative to investigate the state pension fund abroad its investments in coal companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e126	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e140	I ask for the floor because the matter of timber regulation, as a unanimous committee, wants us to join, is important. Illegal logging is a major challenge in parts of the world. It is important that the EU take a step to combat it. At the same time, there is no challenge in Norway, and the Committee therefore emphasises that we receive treatment in Norway that does not become bureaucratic and impose additional costs on Norwegian forestry. We therefore agree that we should split up the follow-up by taking the international follow-up by the Directorate for the Environment and that the State Agriculture Administration will follow-up in Norway. I would say this to stress that this is actually a rather important international issue that has major environmental, economic and social consequences in the countries where it is happening. It is very good that the EU has taken the initiative they have taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e147	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e161	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that six lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the speaking time in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e168	In the Committee we have had a fairly simple examination of this document 8. It is not because it is not an important topic raised by the proposers, because it is. The reason why the procedure has been so simple on the part of the rapporteur is that there has been a unanimous opinion in the Committee that it is desirable to have these fundamental discussions on the management of the oil fund in the context of the management communication in spring. Since 1996, this has become one of the world's most remote funds. From 2004, when we introduced ethical guidelines, there has always been a debate about where we are going to have our investments and the impact of our investments when we own such a dominant international fund as we do. What is my position and what is the position in the committee is that it is important to take the rounds predictably and in a proper way each spring. One of the best things about the capital of the state pension fund abroad is that there is predictability around it, that there is security around it, and that we make changes in time. Therefore, the position that lies there – not because we do not see that the representatives have good elements and good proposals, but we want to come back more thoroughly to the discussions in connection with the management message for spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e177	One thing is never wrong: when this room has a case about the State pension fund abroad for treatment, there will be a debate. It was a debate and a great deal of disagreement when the State Petroleum Fund was set up in 1996. There was a debate about setting up an ethics council at all in 2004. And it was very much discussed which way to take when the ethical guidelines were to be evaluated and renewed in 2009. In my opinion, these debates in Stortinget are the main reason why the Pension Fund is currently the world leader in its management and on responsible investment practices. The strategic debates in the United Kingdom have contributed to the gradual development and improvement of the Fund, which today highlights all parties as positive. In these debates, there are always people who have taken the initiative and raised new issues. The proposal to SV to phase out the Fund's investment in fossil energy is thus an important input into that debate. From the Workers' Party, we have – as announced earlier this autumn – developed a proposal for a representative asking the government to conduct a thorough investigation with a view to withdrawing the investment into the Pension Fund of coal companies. We therefore support the Committee's recommendation that the SV's proposal be annexed to the protocol, and hope that the government will note the recordings when they make their discussions in the preparation of the spring's announcement. For the Workers' Party, it is also important to adhere to some of the principles of the administration: one was the representative of the Battle Violence Vedum within, it is that the major strategic decisions should be part of the Annual Storing Communication. The second is that the framework for the management of the Fund — with the clear division of responsibilities and roles between the owner, the administrator and the various supervisory and control bodies — remains constant. The Workers' Party has always believed that the Pension Fund is not, and that it should not be, an instrument of foreign policy or any other sectoral policy, in the same way that we have always sold our oil and gas on business principles. That's how it should go on. At the same time, SPU is a fund owned by the Norwegian people, and as a society, we don't care how the fund invests, especially in view of the fact that the fund is meant to last for generations. We are to act as a responsible investor, and then it is our responsibility to reflect on what is the right investment behaviour. In all these debates, we will face various dilemmas. One example is that the Pension Fund withdrew from Boeing Corporation in 2005 because of their nuclear weapons production, but at the same time it operates and flies from the company in Norway. My clear view is that such dilemmas and problems will always exist. But that in itself doesn't have to be an argument for not doing anything. I look forward to this spring's debates on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e203	I am very much in agreement with the rapporteur and the post that the representative Tvedt Solberg has now made. They also reflected well on our position. I think it is absolutely right that there will be a significant debate on the Pension Fund, not least when we get the management message – also because it is a short time since the Strategy Council made important recommendations to the Ministry of Finance, which requires a thorough debate here as well. From the Christian People's Party we raised this issue of investment in coal from an environmental perspective, but also from a purely financial perspective, when we dealt with the management message earlier this year. That is why we have also voted in favour of the proposal on which the Left and Christian People's Party also stood before the period. We're promoting it with the Left. This is how, through the ethical work of the Pension Fund, we have set out some general objectives on what should not be invested in. Then it would be nice to have an extract when the breach has been found and there does not seem to be a basis for change from the company. Then we have some other extraction mechanisms, that's to say in advance that we won't invest in this. The last change we made there was in the case of tobacco, where the Stortinget said clearly that it would end investment in the tobacco industry. Then I fully agree – and we are all, at least in theory – that the funds are not a foreign policy instrument. But as it also emerges from a debate article in one of the newspapers today, I think it is, and becomes, an increasingly challenging exercise, for one thing is how we look at the fund, another thing is how the outside world judges the fund. There, I think, we will have significant challenges in the future, too, not least to the extent that we tighten up what we invest in – and the reason why we might not invest or expand. All of this I look forward to coming back to in connection with the management message. Now there's another proposal from the Workers' Party, on the table, which will allow us to meet in this room on later occasions to discuss exactly this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e216	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e219	We in the Left share the starting point of the proposal providers. One of the most important objectives of climate policy is precisely the 2 degree target. For this reason, we in the Left also want the State pension fund abroad, SPU, to invest more in civil society managers and resilient businesses and in forward-looking sectors such as renewable energy and other climate-friendly activities, and the correspondingly smaller in coal, tar sand and oil. In the Left's view, there is both a financial and climate policy risk that the SPU is so heavily involved in oil and coal companies. We in the Left therefore believe that it is important that the consequences and risks of such an investment profile are dealt with, and therefore propose it today. We thought before the meeting started today that there was something strange that the Workers' Party, which in the past has made a big point that they would have a larger environmental profile when it comes to SPU, is not even willing to vote for a settlement of the same today, whether they had supported the Left and Christian People's Party's proposal or one of the alternatives to SV. I am quite in agreement with my associate Jonas Gahr Støre, who said to several media earlier in the fall: ‘It has a significant signal effect on what our pension fund does.’ That is precisely why it would be important to signal a clear direction today. So, of course, we in the Left felt that it is good that both the SV and the Labour Party have signalled their willingness to use the SPU much more actively to solve the environmental and climate challenges during the fall. It is unfailingly positive, although there is once again reason to say that this should have been done strictly while they were in government. We in the Left are ready to participate in a dialogue and work on how this can be done against the treatment we should receive about the management of the SPU for spring. Unfortunately, given that the Labour Party today chooses to present a new, own representative proposal on the same theme, I have to ask questions about the willingness of the Labour Party to contribute to good solutions – or whether there is a need for labelling that is the strongest driving force. Then I perceive that the representative Syversen actually put forward the proposal that the Left is on in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e241	The rapporteur has had a very wise approach to this matter. Because we now see, both during the debate and in the proposals that have come here, that the different parties want to put a lot of different things into the State pension fund abroad. What's that supposed to be? What is it for? What different purposes can this serve? It is precisely this which the rapporteur briefly stated, that it is important that we do so in the context of the handling of the annual management message, in the light of what the Strategy Council is coming up with. I think we should never forget what the State pension fund abroad really was – a fund to be set aside to secure future generations, secure future pensions. Then I agree with the chairman of the committee, who points out that the fund is developing very in size, and not least in what it engages in, perhaps makes it look different – from the outside, yes, but from the inside, which is from home, we must never forget what was originally meant by it. I also see that evolution suggests that we pay attention to a lot of aspects of this. But that's just going to show the review that we're going to have this spring. I think that the rapporteur, on behalf of the Committee, has come up with wise decisions. And the wise decision in this round is not to go into any of the proposals that lie here, except to attach this protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e250	As mentioned, there is broad agreement that any changes to the Fund’s policy should be made in the annual management communication. Now, with the State pension fund abroad, the oil fund, the aim here is to seek the highest possible return over time within a moderate risk. If one is to withdraw or narrow down the areas in which the fund can invest, it would of course undermine the ability to ensure a safe and good return over time. Now there are several suggestions that have come in recent times. One of these is that one should phase out fossil energy. There are also other proposals on alcohol producers that one should not invest in it. The tobacco industry is, as we know, an area that you've moved out of. Estimates suggest that the oil fund has lost 10 billion. the withdrawal from the tobacco industry. I also have to add that I have difficulty seeing that the world has become a better place, that there is fewer smoking, or that there have been some other positive effects that the oil fund has been selling out of the tobacco industry. The same thing I think would be the case if one were to draw out of fossil energy. I can't see that there will be any positive effects at all. The proposers have been part of a government aimed at increasing the state ownership of Statoil. It was a logical reasoning that they thought was important, and then one is going to sell out of Shell and other oil companies. I have a little problem seeing that logic, but there's a discussion that we'll get back to when we're going to deal with the annual management message that's to be submitted to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e261	Let me first deal with the proposals No. 2, 3 and 4 in the setting on behalf of SV. To the Hageset's logic, it's just to say that we should think like him, we can invest in absolutely anything, because in any case it doesn't make the world a better place. Child labor, for example, can SPU make good money on it. In order to achieve the 2-degree goal, two thirds of the world's fossil energy resources of those we know today need to lie down, and a lot of oil, gas and coal that we know of, including on a Norwegian base, must be underground and below sea level in order for us to have a chance of saving the planet's climate. One of the objectives of the State pension fund abroad was to spread risks, and using fossil energy revenues for investments in more fossil energy is itself a vulnerability. But in addition, it's investing oil money in more fossil energy in the long term to put money on that we're failing to achieve our climate goals. We invest the money in the wrong place. When the world needs more investment in renewable energy, it is irresponsible to invest heavily in coal, oil sand and other fossil energy carriers. One thing is that we manage well and make good use of our own oil and gas – and here too we will have to reduce the pace, not only for our own economy, but also for climate reasons – but adding fossil energy, including quite extreme and climate-damaging fossil energy, capital also in other countries is very little forward-looking and does not bring the world closer to a climate solution. In the kindergarten at high school, I argued in between with my friends about who invented something first. When a friend of mine once when I was eight years old, found a new way to build X-Wing spaceships from Star Wars on in Lego, I thought he had stolen my idea, and then I wouldn't play with him for a while. It was not very mature; I can apologize for being eight years old after all. But I have to admit that my thoughts go a little way to the schoolyard in my childhood when we deal with this matter today. For example, the Labour Party agrees with our proposal No. 2 in the position to ask the government to investigate any withdrawal from the State pension fund abroad, and there is no material or qualitative difference between our proposal and the excellent Document 8 proposed by the Workers' Party this morning. We will, of course, vote in favour of the Labour Party's proposal when the time comes – when the proposal comes to the House for consideration. It is the matter that is important, not the party logo, and I fully support the desire for predictability in the management of the State pension fund abroad. Therefore, we ask in SV for an investigation, so that we have a good decision-making basis when the Storing Message arrives in the spring. The Left and Christian People's Party also agree with our proposal on the matter, but votes against today. The House will therefore vote today on a proposal for which it is, in fact, a majority, in a little corny pre-Christmas show in parliamentary policy. I hope at least we can deal properly with the Workers' Party's proposals, so that we can get a proper decision-making basis in the big news for spring. It is not changing the State pension fund that is a political act; not doing anything about fossil energy investments is the most serious political act. It should be a cross of thought for both the Left and the Christian People's Party that this morning the Workers' Party promoted a proposal that goes much further than the Left and Christian People's Party is willing to go into this Chamber, and it should be a cross of thought for all that a number of opposition parties vote against their own convictions today. I hope we won't do so much of that in the coming growing-up period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e282	There is broad political outreach on the broad lines of government of the State pension fund abroad. The SPU is managed on the basis of a measure of maximum returns within moderate risk. The management of the Fund shall not be an instrument of environmental or foreign policy. The financial objective which has been established since the Fund was set up should remain firm. The starting point for the share investments in SPU is that the fund owns a small proportion of the world stock market. In this way, we can over time expect returns and risks in line with developments in the world stock market. There should be serious reasons to deviate from this strategy. Changes we make to the investment strategy for the fund are based on thorough professional investigations and a broad anchoring in Stortinget. I cannot see that analyses of the oil and gas sector have been submitted that are suitable to draw conclusions that the risk of such investments defends the exclusion of the sector from the SPU. Return on investment and risk in oil and gas is, moreover, a natural factor to come back to in the communication to the Stortinget on the management of the State pension fund in spring 2014. Climate change impacts could occur over several decades. A strategy based on an expectation of a particular future development path will therefore be based on a comprehensive set of assumptions. These assumptions will be uncertain. I believe that a long-term investor like SPU should specifically follow developments that may have the potential to influence the long-term return of the fund. Norway’s Bank already draws attention to this in its ownership exercise. Otherwise, it is worth noting that all the revenues in the SPU come from fossil fuels. Then it's not logical in itself that you can't invest in fossil sources. It will not change anything either. SPU will be quickly replaced by other investors. The Ministry has previously provided analyses of impacts on the returns and risks of climate change. It is natural that we will continue to work towards a better understanding of how, for example, climate change can affect SPU's returns and risks. This is in line with the recommendation we received from the SPU Strategy Council. The Council recommends that the Fund initiate and support independent research in order to increase understanding of the factors that may affect the values of the Fund. Some suggest this as a contrast between the investment strategy for the SPU and Norway’s climate policy objectives. I do not agree that this is the case. The phasing out of SPU's investments in fossil energy cannot be expected to be an effective tool to change the supply of oil, gas and coal internationally. The demand for these products, on the other hand, may be affected, perhaps in particular by measures increasing the price of carbon emissions. I'm content here to refer to the government's climate policy. The challenge is not solved by the State pension fund abroad. Nevertheless, climate change is one of Norway’s Bank’s areas of ownership, and the bank has been cooperating for several years with other investors on the management of climate risk by companies. As the owner, we have the opportunity to influence. We don't have that if we sell ourselves out. It is precisely in such ways that the fund can contribute to improved practices of companies in the portfolio over time. We have succeeded in building up a good system for dealing with the oil revenues that has gained recognition internationally. Several governments have contributed, and an important continuous premise is that SPU is a financial investor. Against this background, I do not believe that we can now make a decision to phase out the fund's investments in fossil energy. But I look forward to a debate on the whole of the government's pension fund management abroad in connection with the government's announcement to the Stortinget in spring 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e302	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e305	Every time this room has a case about SPU, there'll be a big debate. My experience is that the debates have contributed to the development of the responsible management of the Fund, which is today characterised as an international leader. In my opinion, the party of state councils has not been the front fighters in the developments we have seen in the ethical guidelines. So my question to the Council of State is this: does she now, as Minister of Finance, think that the debate that SV is going to be going on today is timely and necessary to continue the development of the responsible management of the fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e310	I am generally of the opinion that debate is very good, because it increases our focus on different issues, and it can help to further develop a position that has been firm. But at the same time, I want to say that when it comes to managing the SPU, it is important that some of the basic assumptions and assumptions are established. This is primarily a financial fund to ensure not only those who live today but future generations. This is precisely why it is important that we are broad, long-term and do not use the Fund as an instrument to achieve other policy objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e315	The Council of State was in its time a driving force for ethical guidelines. At the same time, we are well aware that, at least in the last period, the Progress Party was quite negative about how the ethical guidelines have evolved. So my question to the government council is, does she think that the ethical guidelines for the Pension Fund in sum are a plus or a minus?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e320	When the Storting had a discussion about introducing ethical guidelines in its time, there was an important debate. I believe that we also made all the necessary considerations of which criteria to set as a starting point for this. It is important to have mechanisms that work well and that ensure AIFMs predictability of their practice, not least because this means a great deal to the long-term development of the fund's values. That is why I believe that when we are going to take new discussions on the ethical guidelines, we need to look carefully at the whole of it and look at the experience that has been gained with the extraction mechanisms that exist today. But I think it is very healthy that we have a regular debate on this, and I look forward to the debate that Stortinget will have in connection with the communication to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e325	I have two questions and I would like an answer to both of them. Question 1 is whether the Council agrees with the representative of Hagesetter that it is pointless to stay away from tobacco investment in the SPU. Question 2 concerns the value of fossil companies. Storbrand has chosen to withdraw from fossil energy, not for environmental reasons, but because it poses a risk. It is the fossil reserves of fossil companies that set their values, and given that the world is able to solve the climate crisis and extract less fossil energy, the value of these will sink dramatically, and therefore they have chosen to withdraw. Does the Council of State agree that having large investments in fossil companies at a time when world emissions need to be drastically reduced will also pose a risk for SPU?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e330	I'm concerned that we're taking a complete review of all these questions, and that we're evaluating it based on knowledge of how these things actually turn out. That's why we've now sent the recommendations of the Strategy Council to consult, because I think there's a lot of Norwegian society out there that sees this. But at the same time, when we're going to make our final recommendations and pass them on to the Storting, I think we have a responsibility to have thought through how the governance strategy harmonizes with the long-term objectives. Then I want to repeat what I said in my speech: we believe that this should be primarily a financial fund, which should not have the ambition to solve either environmental or foreign policy issues. I believe that Norwegian authorities and politicians must do so in other arenas and with other instruments and in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e337	There are two things I want to address with the Council of State. One is that the Council of State did not answer the question. There is an internationally significant debate on the risk of investing in oil and coal companies, including tar sands, because the value is to a large extent based on their stocks of resources. The risk of becoming less valuable under any new climate agreement has not been calculated, and therefore was the question from Snorre Serigstad Valen: Does the Council agree that there is a risk of investment, precisely for the reason I point out? The second question is that the Council of State thought it was wrong now to decide to phase out. But that is not what the Socialist Left Party is proposing. We propose: ‘The Government is asking for an assessment of whether it would be appropriate to phase out investments in coal, including extraction and electricity production, given the objective of avoiding global warming of more than 2 degrees’, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e347	I believe, in particular, that I answered the question by saying that we should make a thorough review and assessment of the recommendations now made by the Strategy Council, which we have sent to the consultation, as well as looking at other experiences that have been made, listen to the experience that the bank itself has gained through the last year's practice and experience, and on the basis of it coming back to the Storting both with the return and risk characteristics and assessments relating to different parts of the sector as the basis for a broader debate that we take in connection with the communication to be addressed by the Stortinget in spring. I think that's the right time to do that. Then we have a much wider base. But I repeat what I said in my speech, that we must have some overall objectives for what we want to achieve with such a large fund, and so there has been a consensus in this Chamber that it should be a financial fund, and that other considerations, such as foreign policy and environmental policy considerations, must be taken primarily through other mechanisms.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e352	I understand that, I agree, and as the Council of State wants to know once she has read the setting, SV also concludes that the main purpose of the fund is to seek ‘the highest possible return over time within moderate risk’. What is nevertheless the question, and which makes me take this up in a new line, is the following: I think it is good that the Council of State has intended to have a broad review based on those experiences. But what we are discussing today is whether she will make a concrete assessment of the risks involved in investing in fossil resources, and perhaps especially in investments in coal and oil sand and possibly other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e357	I perceive that this is a question of broad interest in Stortinget. That means that we will come back to this when we discuss the communication in its entirety to spring. What I just underline once again is that what is so important, and that is why we have the broad discussion of this through the processing of the message, is that we should see things in context and ensure a long-term and predictable practice of what the fund invests in and in what way. What would be unfortunate is if we changed the investment criteria for the fund continuously through decisions in the Storting. It will be demanding for the fund to handle, and it will send very unfortunate and perhaps sometimes confusing signals about what is the fund's main purpose. I'll warn you against that. Therefore, it is wise to stick to a thorough treatment once a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e365	There were a lot of questions for the finance minister, and I just want to use the last line to repeat one she didn't answer: does she think it was a wise and correct decision of the fund in her time to withdraw from companies that run tobacco? Her party trap here thought it was a bad decision, which has weakened Norway’s income and is therefore regrettable. But what does the Minister of Finance mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e370	The Minister of Finance is primarily concerned with the decisions taken by the Stortinget. Then I go through all the recordings and views that have now come in connection with the future management of the fund. I record that in this room there are some signals and views from the Socialist Left Party and some signals from the Workers' Party, which I am not quite sure if I perceive as very different from the signals coming from the SV. I record that there are many issues raised, and I also record what the representatives of the Progress Party say. There are many reasons to look critically at the whole of this administration. There's a lot of reasons to go through it. But I want to answer all these questions when we present the message for the Size of Spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e377	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e382	I just have to conclude that we did not get an answer to that question – on the third attempt – if the Minister of Finance thinks it was a correct decision, the one that was made. She's dealing with the Storting, and that's wise. A few comments here: I would like to commend the Minister of Finance for her approach, where she invites an overall debate on this to spring. I believe that the Committee on Budgets also disagrees with this position. And let me just be very clear to the representatives Serigstad Valen and Breivik: we do not vote against this vote. We're going to join the setting, which adds this to the protocol. It's an important input to the government's work, too. The representative Serigstad Valen spoke of the promotion of «corny» proposals. I think that is a good parliamentary expression, President, but I believe that our proposal is not 'corny'. When the Workers' Party gave a signal on the question of coal, we announced that we wanted to promote a proposal on the theme coal. The next day, an SV proposal came to draw itself out of all fossil energy sources – an honest case. What the Minister of Finance has responded to today and has given really good assessments is based on the proposal for all fossil fuels. The proposal put forward by Mr Tvedt Solberg, on behalf of the representative, Mr Marthinsen, myself and myself today, is precisely starting with coal. We believe that here we are building up a reasoning that puts the coal theme on the agenda, which will give an opportunity to focus more on it both within the Committee and for the Minister of Finance and the Government, and will give good signals towards what is to be the process of collapse. I just want to clarify it. What the Minister of Finance has said today is a very comprehensive proposal on all fossil fuels. There is something the Workers' Party does not agree with. That's the cooling bat we've been wanting to take, and we've been proposing it. I just want to end by saying that all the qualities of the fund that the Minister of Finance described, the Labour Party joins. We've been for what we've managed the fund on that basis. I also agree with her that it is not the Storting that makes the ongoing assessments of what gives the best return. Hopefully we've used some of the world's most capable professionals to do that for us. But other countries with similar funds are not equipped with parliaments and democracies, largely. We are, and therefore it is that the oil fund is managed in line with what is a broad perception in Norwegian democracy and in Norwegian society, such as. led to the fact that we're not in tobacco, which I think is a position we've taken that doesn't change the perspective that it's going to be a financial return to the best of future generations, but that we're actually taking some assessments of what society and what world we live in. That is also the debate we are inviting with the proposal we have made today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e393	The President does not think that ‘corny’ is a good parliamentary expression. The terms don't get any better from being translated into English. The President found that there was reason to show tolerance to the Serigstad Valen in order not to be too strict in the way of talking about this, but I do not think we should establish this as a parliamentary expression. Then I find that I have to point this out now, when the theme came up in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e396	President, I belong to the tradition that it is good that people use a little bit of expression, so I am voting in favour of ‘corny’ as a parliamentary expression! If I'm allowed to just take a little polemics against the Workers' Party in the beginning, because I think it's a problem – and it really hits an overall opposition in the face of the government on this issue – that, as I see it, in this Chamber, it's a majority who want a serious and thorough investigation of the question of coal. Some of us want to go further and look at other things too, because we see that the emissions related to oil sand and the overall environmental impact of oil sand are as large as for coal. We believe that it is therefore necessary to go further. Given such a majority that I perceive actually exists in the hall, it's strange that we can't get together on a common proposal. I just read out the proposal that SV has submitted: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of whether it would be appropriate to phase out investments in coal, including extraction and electricity generation, given the objective of avoiding global warming of more than 2 degrees. The assessment and proposals are presented in the context of the first communication on the management of the State pension fund.» Then I ask you to compare this with the proposal that the Workers' Party has been promoting this morning: ‘The government is asked to carry out a thorough investigation with a view to withdrawing the investment of State pension funds abroad by coal companies and to present the investigation in the context of the announced call for proposals on the management of the SPU in spring 2014.’» Let's say it like this: I can't stand to see the difference between the two proposals. I have no difficulty voting in favour of the proposal by the Labour Party that was tabled today. That is why I think it is nice that the Labour Party does not vote in favour of the proposal that we have tabled. The knowledge of the kind of consideration of proposals presented by representatives, and in particular by the opposition, is precisely to do what Siv Jensen asks us to do, namely to take an overall debate, but the role of the opposition in this respect will be to ensure that we get the debate we want. We don't if we don't send a clear order to the government at this particular point. In this way the Left and Christian People's Party has a considerable responsibility, for they say in the proposal they are promoting here today: ‘The government asks in the context of the Landfill Communication to assess the financial and climate policy risks involved in SPU being heavily invested in oil and coal companies today.’ [[...]] We're going to support that today. I would like to encourage the Labour Party to support it too, so that we ensure a majority for at least one investigative proposal here today. The problem arises if the Minister of Finance chooses to provide a large-scale communication that does not have a sufficient basis for decision-making so that we can actually decide in the Grand Duchy to withdraw from the coal, when it is obvious that there is a majority in the Grand Duchy to look at that possibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e420	For the sake of order, the President would point out that the assessment of what is a parliamentary expression is a matter for the President alone, and that what the representatives have to say about it is of secondary importance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e423	I share the President's view of it, but then the President has to forgive me, because I just have to point out that I did not call the Workers' Party proposal – I'm sorry, President! – “corny”. I called the proposal of the Labour Party excellent. That is the practice and voting in the Chamber today, I think, is the word that should not be mentioned, President. Because we've seen the desire of a number of parties in the Storting, what actually constitutes a majority in the hall, to get a proper decision-making basis for the spring when the big picture comes: whether it's a good idea to invest in coal through the SPU, or whether we should withdraw. Therefore, SV does not promote its primary position today, which is that we should withdraw now – we have a great deal of understanding that not all parties want to participate in it, and we want this to be adopted – but we are promoting three other proposals, which are concerned with obtaining a decision-making basis so that we can discuss this when it comes to discussion, in connection with the big message for spring. And that's what the hall has to decide. There are three proposals we are making today that the House must take a decision on. It is the case that a majority in the Chamber will investigate the extraction of coal, but it is also the case that a majority in the Chamber votes against, and I think that is an unnecessary notion. Today, we could have made sure that when we deal with the forecast for the spring, we have the information and investigations we need to determine whether it is a good idea to invest in coal, in oil sand and in other fossil energy sources through SPU. It's not going to happen. And I share the view of the representative Holmås: it is a very long way – a very long way – from the broad opposition truth The Left and Christian People's Party stood for this field in the previous period, and to the serility they demonstrate today, when they only promote a proposal that does not even go as far as the Workers' Party's Document 8 proposals presented this morning. They have to be very sure of what they're doing now, because what we're at risk, is that thanks to the Left and Christian People's Party, we don't have a decision-making basis at all when the big message is being addressed to the spring. Then we have to wait another year for a proper and substantive debate on the state pension fund foreign investment in coal, oil sand and other fossil energy sources, and it would be very unfortunate when we have a majority in the Chamber who want us to withdraw.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e430	The majority of the hall wants the predictable management of our common national wealth. We're the generation that's pumping up wealth from the ground and transferring it to capital in the bank, to make it simple, or in different types of investment objects. And it is precisely our generation of politicians who pump up so much, a great responsibility for how that wealth is managed. We all agree that it is right and important to have ethical guidelines for the fund. So I think we all agree that it's wise to manage such a large fund, that we really do it every one of ours. All parties know that there will be an administrative message to the Stortinget about the oil fund in the spring, and that it is the big debate. I don't think it's a good practice if it shows up different kinds of things we don't want to invest in, that you have to have new debates about what we're going to invest that wealth in every two months. Right now there's a very important debate about oil and gas, but there may be other products that we don't see now, which we think in two or three months' time it's not a good idea to invest in. I do not think it is wise that we should add up to such a stock investment debate in Stortinget on an ongoing basis, but that we put it into the management message. There has been a tradition that the red-green parties thought was right when we were in government, as the Christian People's Party, Left and Right thought was right when they were in government, and as today's government believes is right. So here all the parties have been in the same tradition, and I think we should continue it. It was an assessment when discussing this proposal – and there were different views – whether it should be rejected or annexed to the protocol. The reason for attaching the protocol is that it is seen to be a relevant issue. The Council of State has heard the debate that we have now had, that this is a problem that many in the Chamber are concerned about. I expect the government to discuss some of the issues that have arisen here, in the forthcoming management message, as long as we have chosen to attach the proposal to the protocol and not reject it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e441	A few comments on SV's posts, where it was claimed that the Christian People's Party and the Left exhibit «servility», as opposed to what we did a year ago, when we were «bridal». The Christian People's Party and the Left are promoting exactly the same proposal now that we did six months ago. It's identical. We're consistent. Not everyone else is in this room. It was SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party that voted down this very proposal that the Left and Christian People's Party is now promoting, six months ago. I think maybe you should read the suggestions before you distribute the characteristics.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e446	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e460	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e474	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e488	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e497	It is a pleasure for me in the last case before we take a Christmas holiday – or at least try to do so – to present a unanimous opinion from the Financial Committee on the new aging of the State budget for 2013. Here you can dive into both singles and chapters. That's not what I'm going to do, just notice a couple of main numbers in it that might well be called a kind of state-report of the kingdom at the end of the year. Since the adoption by the Stortinget of the State budget for 2013 last autumn, the oil-corrected deficit has been reduced by 6.7 billion. kr. This is partly due to reduced expenditure, while some revenue is moving in the opposite direction. The reduction in income is largely due to lower tax receipts from the mainland economy than previously estimated. The government has also proposed, in addition to the more technical changes that the recent ageing largely involves, to cancel tolls on some projects, to the joy of many who have intended to run through these bombs, I believe. In addition, appropriations have also been made for the maintenance of the railway. There is an overall committee that joins these government proposals. In addition, in my view, today we are adopting – and I am also pleased that it is a unanimous committee – a significant strengthening of the High Commissioner for Refugees and the work to improve the situation of Syrian refugees, particularly in relation to the work of neighbouring countries. It is a fact that the social infrastructure of many of these countries is now under so much pressure that it is in the process of collapsing. That is why I am very pleased that a total increase is giving this important handshake to the important work of the High Commissioner, as well as to the World Bank's fund for the poorest countries, the International Development Fund. Additional funds have also been provided for railway maintenance. The majority of the Committee has also stressed that this type of re-priorities and re-adjustments in the ejaculation will not be equally natural in the future pathways. I would like to say that it is an advantage if we do not get into a situation where it can be perceived by some that we have received a third budgetary procedure here in Stortinget. With this, it's a pleasure for me both to wish the President Christmas and to present a latest position, which is unanimous from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e516	Then we arrived at the last matter before Christmas. This tends to be an occasion where the committee basically goes up to the pulpit and wants each other to have a good Christmas, and then we're done with it. This has the tradition of being an update of the budget for the current year, with technical adjustments and new estimates. And that's what it is -- there's been little politics in this. That's not exactly the case this year, so that's why I have to spend a few minutes on it. I want to say on behalf of the red-green parties that we are sceptical that the government has now put up a third round of budget in practice. There are not only technical adjustments, but new efforts are being made in the hundreds of millions of people in the current budget on Storting's last meeting day. If this becomes an established practice, we will actually have a new hole into the oil fund. So this is defended by the fact that the state has spent less oil money this year than it was budgeted for. I just want to make it clear that it's quite common -- it's been every year that I've been a member of this house. I have to say that I doubt that an opposite result, where it turned out that the state had spent more oil money than what was being budgeted for, would lead to a cut in the current year's budget. When this comes after a budget harvest, we've got an additional proposition that has increased the oil money usage by 4 billion. In addition to what was originally proposed in the Yellow Book, we believe that it would be extra objectionable. When it first opens up such a type of third round of budget, we believe that it is reasonable that support for the world's poor should come in as part of this, that the UN's work on refugees in Syria should be given priority. We think that's good, but it should have been part of a normal budgetary process. I am absolutely sure that the World Bank will greatly appreciate the money now being transferred, when the global labour of poverty in the world suffers greatly during the financial crisis, and many states are now cutting these appropriations. But it hardly matters to the World Bank about this money coming now at the end of December, or if they had arrived in January. Besides, ironing tolls on the current year's budget is not going to give any more way, it won't be a centimeter more asphalt of it. This is money that could also have been used for other purposes, e.g. to accelerate other transport projects. The stupid thing about this getting in the new era is that it's not going to be part of an ordinary process where it's possible to evaluate the whole of the proposal. But once the government has opened up a new round of budgets, we choose from the Red-Green parties' side to support the negotiated settlement, and lie on the line for which there is tradition in the Storting, with the new aging being an exercise to which there is broad support. So I would also like to say that this proposal from the government contains a transfer to the road fund. I want to take this opportunity to highlight from the Red-Green parties that we do not support the model of road development that the government is now proposing, with this combination of a fund and a road development company. It was a topic both in the financial debate and in the transport committee's budget debate, so we're not going to go into this here or start repeating everything. But I would like to say that in a reality where the Storting has adopted a national transport plan of 500 billion. NOK over ten years, and where a party that would almost double this by another 455 billion. kr, is with both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport, in other words they have promised to spend close to 100 billion. kr in the year of travel – are you not close to complying with it, either with the 2014 budget or with the transfer now made to this fund. A fund that over a few years will rise to an estimated 3 to 4 billion. kr in the year, will mean terribly little from or to. There will be no more or different money from budgeting in another way. You actually have to give priority to transportation if you're going to get a boost. I would also like to take the opportunity to wish the President, my colleagues in the Committee and the Minister of Finance Christmas. I'll see you at New Year's.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e537	It's nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e540	I became a little uncertain during Marthinsen's speech on whether the committee chairman's statement that this was a unanimous attitude was still by power. But I understand the Labour Party's need to criticize, but not protest – to say it that way. It's a special reason for the new aging this year, and it's short and good that it's been governed by the budget of another government. It is then natural that on this occasion, too, the possibility of implementing some policy priorities is used. When Marthinsen says that in the last few years you've been using this opportunity to wish each other a good Christmas, I think that's right. This has been done because you have had a majority government that has presented its contributions, and then it has been good Christmas and good New Year that have remained to want each other, and nothing else. Now there's been some politics in this, and I'm glad that the Workers' Party, after its protests, finds out that you can actually join it. And that's what the other parties do. It's good that they do it, because that means that this way of doing it, that of being broadly unanimous on what is regulation in what has happened in the current year, will stand firm. We also say in our remarks from the majority here that this is a kind of re-priorities and back adjustments that won't be natural when a majority has been able to provide a budget, have a revised budget and not just have a hand, but both hands on the wheel throughout the year. I also believe that there is a great deal of support for the individual items involved in the Great Britain settlement, namely the filling up of infrastructure funds, increased appropriations for the maintenance of railways and, not least, international poverty reduction, where the need has shown itself to be significant only in the last few days. As I said, we are glad that there was no breach of the annual cutback to agree that the changes that have already been made are something you don't have to disagree about – if I can express myself as cryptically as that. In the end, I want not only to wish the President good Christmas – I did yesterday too, but a good thing can not be said too often – but above all the committee leader, and thank him for his good work through a harvest that has been not difficult, but challenging, which has been demanding, and has been filled with a lot of work to deal with both the committee and negotiations in all directions. He has done so in his usual mood, but at the same time strong. So I thank you for that cooperation and especially want him, but also the rest of my colleagues a really good Christmas and a good new year. The greeting goes to the Minister of Finance, of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e557	Despite the fact that there has been some criticism from the representative, Mr Marthinsen, about the priorities in this matter, these – as stated earlier – are from a consensus committee. I'm not going to spend all the world's time on this. I think it's good suggestions that lie here. It was easy to get 500 million. In deleting tolls, there is no longer any way out. That's probably true, but at the same time, it's a fact that toll collection is an obstacle to commuting, i.e. for commuting workers. It's also an increased cost to business. Removing the debt could lead to more value creation because it's cheaper and easier to commute, and it's also cheaper and easier to transport goods and services. That should be positive. It should also be extra positive that the toll cancellation takes place in a tolling project which is as expensive as its input. We've had an extraordinary round in the new age here at Stortinget, where we've got a couple more things in common with our friends in the Christian People's Party and the Left. That's 150 million. kr more for railway, which is important. There is also more money for the High Commissioner for Refugees, with particular emphasis on Syrian refugees, to remedy the precarious situation that many are in there. Then one also has what goes on the World Bank's fund for the poorest countries. There I would like to add that this is a fund that has achieved very good results over many years, and that is therefore benefiting from the money that is being given. This is a good new aging – a lot of good points – both when it comes to what came from the government, and also the points and money that have been put in place during the treatment we have had in Stortinget. Then I have nothing more to say about the new age, but since the others ended up wishing Christmas, I also wish Christmas to both the President, the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Finance, the Committee and everyone else.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e570	I agree with the conclusion of the last speaker. There I can join the sequence, and I won't say everything I need to say about it. I have been listening and, first of all, I want to say that what the representative Syversen said first is very important. What we have to think of as positive, is that we had lower expenses this year than we thought. One of the main reasons, according to the proposition, is lower expenditure on population protection. It's a good one, so it's important that we have with us. The big numbers are good, it shows that the country has been well run, and that we also had a paycheck that helped us last autumn. We're also hoping that we'll get a paycheck next year so that we can get the lowest possible wage increase in the future. Then I'm going to the spice that's discussed here in the hall. Then I have to take a little hold of what Mr. Hagesetter said, because he's very, very proud that you're deleting 500 million. toll debt. But if you see December as a whole, there's more toll at the end than at the beginning of the month. The representative Hagesetter, who is from Hordaland, has himself been able to vote through the Askøy package and a new toll project in the Süd-Trøndelag. Those projects – if I don't remember completely wrong – cost 1.5 billion. kr in the admission of toll loans. The calculation for the December part of the month of progress is negative. It must be a small paradox that the month when Norway’s toll was really going to start to cancel, there is more debt at the end than at the start – even if you took a quick turn of 500 million. kr now in the effusion and found the cheapest projects that can be found. However, the share of tolls is on the way up in Norway — not on the way down. It is likely that next year will be the year you will be demanding the most toll ever in Norwegian history – when Siv Jensen is Minister of Finance, Ketil Solvik-Olsen is Minister of Transport and always gentle Bård Hoksrud is Secretary of State. I think he's still gentle next fall, even though as Secretary of State he'll set Norway's record in demanding tolls. The opposition to the tolls of the Progress Party, when it comes to the position, has gone from being powerful words to becoming empty words. Then there is something I am pleased about in this treatment, and that we also made visible to the Christian People's Party and the Left in the process: When we first went into such a deletion of tolls, we thought it was important that we could address some of the global challenges we are facing – that we are now joining forces to spend more money on the UN High Commissioner for Refugees in the situation in Syria. There's someone who doesn't get a good Christmas. I think it's a nice common conclusion that we're doing this. I also think it is a fine joint conclusion that we are adding extra funds to the World Bank, funds to go to the most poor in the world – that we are doing it without party-political conflict lines, and that together we have made that priority. That's why there's unanimity, and it's a good tradition that we have it in Norway a lot of times. Then we notice that December is a month when we have got more toll with the Advance Party at the rudder – no less.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e585	Merry Christmas, President. Merry Christmas also to the Committee Chairman and Committee – and to the Minister of Finance. Thanks for the cooperation and a good new year. I promise to try to make the new year a little more sad for the finance minister – and for some others, then, but that's my job. But Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e590	I would like to thank you for an exemplary article – in length. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e593	I do not hope that the representative Valen believes that he will make life more sad in 2014 for the Council of State. I would, on the other hand, very much appreciate that he is a committed political person who will make life the Council of State hectic in 2014. I welcome that, but sadly – it does not promise well. But I'm dealing with what had to come. Let me say to the bottom of the debate that I am concerned that this is a unanimous position of the Financial Committee, but I would also like to say briefly that the view of the Progress Party on Tolls has not changed. It's solid. However, the minority government acknowledges that a large political majority has been, and is, for significant toll financing of road projects. The fact that this government is working for the smoother and more reasonably possible collection of these projects should not only be pleased with the Storting, but should also be pleased with the drivers, taxpayers and Norwegian businesses. Always focusing on how we manage taxpayers' money, I think is a general and important task for the government, and that is what we intend to continue to focus on. With this I too will be allowed to wish the President and Stortinget a really good Christmas. Unlike the representative Snorre Valen, I wish everyone a successful new year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e603	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e606	I have no desire to make life sad for anyone. But it has seemed that this recent aging has been a little uncomfortable practice for the cooperation parties of the government here in the Storting, Left and Christian People's Party. In any case, the press release on the agreement bears the mark of it, for there you can read: ‘This type of adjustment to the new age would not be natural in the same way when the four parties cooperate in the future on the original state budget and revised national budgets for the coming years.’ Now I personally insist that there will be not so many years, but nevertheless, my short question to the Minister of Finance is: can the Minister of Finance guarantee that the new aging for the future will not develop into an ordinary, third round of budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e616	I think there is a broad consensus that the new age should be just that, but I also want to repeat what Svein Flötten said, namely that the changes in the new ageing of the budget for 2013 must be seen in the context of the fact that the state budget and the revised budget for 2013 were both promoted by and adopted by the majority behind the government of Stoltenberg. There is the underlying reason why some minor changes have been made in this new age. Otherwise, I would like to say that I have not felt that there has been an inconvenient situation between the four cooperation parties – rather the opposite. The dialogue between the four parties is excellent, and I think it will continue to be in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e623	Last year, the representative, Jensen, together with his team, had a proposal here in the Chamber to cancel the toll due by 25 billion. kr. She could use the ejaculation to say that now we can erase the toll debt, no problems, it's just removing it. And then the new aging came this year, and then it was 500 million. kr. That's nothing compared to what you said was necessary last year. With the size of the Progress Party in government, there has been a minimal impact on 25 billion. NOK 500 million. kr. Last year, however, it was an additional element: the Progress Party did not vote for more tolls. So this year it's raising the toll in December well, last year you would reduce by 25 billion. kr. What has changed so significantly, and why does Minister of Finance Jensen not manage to get a greater impact on his own government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e632	When the Progress Party presented this proposal last year, it only received the votes of the Progress Party. When the Progress Party presents this proposal this year, it is unanimously adopted by the Stortinget. I think it's a right step in the right direction that even batches that have supported the decisions to introduce a large number of these projects, see the value of deleting some of them. I just want to repeat what I said in my post: I think it's right and reasonable that the government takes time to look at how we can make part of these processes more reasonable and better. There are many projects where we can see that the collection is unnecessary animals, and that the administration of collecting it is also unnecessary animals in relation to what the drivers get. I believe that this is an important responsibility for which the government has undertaken to clean up, and I hope that the representative Schlagsvold Vedum is pleased.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e639	That's why we're also voting for some of these projects, because we see that all things have multiple sides. But it didn't get the impression when you heard the Progress Party last year – that the discussion about toll collection had several sides. You got the impression that it had only one side, and it was that this was a run of drivers and of the Norwegian people, and that the red-green government almost was robbers who did it. It was also repeated in the election campaign that everything was going away. So the big difference between last year and this year is that a unanimous Norwegian big business has chosen to increase its toll debt in December, and the Progress Party has voted for it. How does Progress Party leader Siv Jensen think it is that with the Progress Party in management, we have increased the toll in December 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e646	The big difference from when the Progress Party put in opposition, that we are actually in government, is that it is a shift in the pace of transport policy. Over our two months in government, we have established an infrastructure fund, which we believe will be a good contribution to strengthening investment in transport in the future. Investments in transport in the 2014 budget have increased through the budgetary procedure. We are working on establishing a new road company that we believe will lead to faster, fairer and better infrastructure construction in the future, and we are working for a completely different toll share in a wide range of projects in the future than would be the case if the Progress Party did not put in government. I believe that the big difference is that the Progress Party is now in government and has a hand on the steering wheel both in fiscal policy and in transport policy, and we are actively working to manage taxpayers' money in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e653	Let me first thank the Minister of Finance for the desire for progress next year. We in SV need it, to say it like that. It is true that the transition to the government brings with it a new language and new ways of expressing itself – perhaps especially for the Progress Party, which is known to speak from scratch – so I will try to repeat my Christmas greeting in a better way, so «here goes»: I wish the Minister of Finance a happy, happy and harmonious year, but I promise on a constructively opposed basis to seek to make it difficult for the Minister of Finance to implement the Advance Party policy in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e660	I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e665	The chord shift has been completed. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e673	The cancellation goes to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e697	Four proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 2-4, from Snorre Serigstad Valen on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2–4 from the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of whether it would be appropriate to phase out investments in coal, including extraction and electricity generation, given the objective of avoiding global warming of more than 2 degrees. The assessment and proposals are presented in the context of the first communication on the management of the State pension fund.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for an assessment of whether it would be appropriate to phase out investments in the extraction of tar sands, including extraction and electricity generation, given the objective of avoiding global warming of more than 2 degrees. The assessment and proposals are presented in the context of the first communication on the management of the State pension fund.» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an assessment of whether it would be appropriate to reduce exposure to fossil investments with a view to full phasing out, including extraction and electricity generation, given the objective of avoiding global warming of more than 2 degrees. The assessment and proposals are presented in the context of the first communication on the management of the State pension fund.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e733	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks in the context of the Landfill Communication on the management of State pension funds abroad in 2013 to assess the financial and climate policy risks involved in SPU being heavily invested in oil and coal companies.’ The Socialist Left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e799	In relation to the position to be voted on, the President will note the following: In the case of any of the proposed appropriations, justified doubts may be raised as to whether they are in line with the provisions of the Appropriations Regulation. Section 2 states that ‘Derogations from the provisions of the Appropriations Regulation in individual cases require explicit decision by the Storting.’ In order to be sure that the Storting does not do anything that can be criticised in retrospect, the President will propose that the Stortinget depart from Section 3 of the Appropriations Regulation. No objections have come against it. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-19.ana.ud1676e2815	Thus, today's map has been processed. Before the meeting is closed, the President would like to thank you for the autumn's efforts. A new expansion has found the fold – I think – and has provided good debates and good input. There is every reason to take a breath in the ground and a well-deserved Christmas holiday. We meet here again for a new gloomy and reinforced work in the new year. Thank you very much for your efforts. Merry Christmas to you all! Merry Christmas! [[(From sale):]] Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
