ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e59	The representative of Trine Skei Grande, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from representatives Sylvi Graham, Lise Christoffersen, Karin Andersen, Karin S. Woldseth, Håkon Haugli and Magnhild Meltvei Kleppa on leave from 22 January to 24 January – all to attend the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Strasbourg of the Workers' Party on the leave of the representative Sverre Myrli from 22 January to 24 January to take part in the session of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO to Bahrain and Qatar of the Group of the Progressive Party on the Permit of the Representative Harald T. Nesvik from 22 January to 24 January to take part in the meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committee in Costa Rica and Panama of the representative Anne Marit Bjørnfacen on study leave from 22 January to 24 January and until 22 January from the Workers' Party on the day-end of the plenary meeting of the European Parliamentary Committee in Costa Rica and from 22 January to 22 January and until 22 January and until the end of Anne Tjärte Those applications are proposed for immediate consideration and are accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of Akershus County, Bente Stein Mathisen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on 23 and 24 January under the authority of the representative Sylvi Graham, for reasons of well-being. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and granted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Akershus County: Siri Hov Egg, Bente Stein Mathisen for January 22nd and Haarek Rivers for January 23rd and 24th For the Province of Buskerud: Masud Gharahkhani For Hedmark County: Thor Lillehovde and Frøydis Elisabeth Sund For the province of Hordaland: Torkil Åmland For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Jon Georg Dale For Oslo: Lotte Grepp Knutsen For the Province of Rogaland: Arne Bergsvåg For Troms County: Bear Inge Mo
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e168	Siri Hov Egg, Bente Stein Mathisen, Masud Gharahkhani, Thor Lillehovde, Frøydis Elisabeth Sund, Torkil Åmland, Jon Georg Dale, Lotte Grepp Knutsen, Arne Bergsvåg and Bjørn Inge Mo are present and will take the seat. The representative, Mr Jørgen Bekkewold, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e173	On behalf of the representatives of Dagfinn Høybråten, Dagrun Eriksen, Trine Skei Grande, Borghild Tenden and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the best interests of children in asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e178	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e194	Let me first begin by congratulating the Council of State on the good results of targeted road safety work. That we got well under 160 killed on Norwegian roads last year is a happy milestone on the road towards zero vision, but of course very tragic and serious for the many who are still hit, and not least for those who are left who get their lives turned up in a moment. That is why we cannot rest in this work. Giving all the North a safe path is one of the Hearts of the Right. Although the numbers are going the right way, too many people are still dying in traffic, and more than 1,000 are being badly damaged. This happens despite the fact that targeted grip could make Norwegian roads safer. The annual costs of road accidents are enormous. These are tragedies for families, for individuals and for society as a whole. In crowns and ears, accidents have been estimated at about 26 billion. kr. annual. So we can say that investment in better roads is also investment in life and health. The right-hand vision for road safety is that within 10 years no one shall die or be seriously injured as a result of poor roads. Although we will never be able to prevent all accidents, we can better chance that accidents will not be serious for life and health. To realise this vision, the Right has launched a separate Road Safety Strategy Plan. Until 1970 the number of road accidents with personal injury increased as traffic progress progressed. Since then, fortunately, this relationship has changed. In 1970, 560 people were killed in traffic, while in 2012 154 were killed. In the period from 1970 until today, we are approaching only a quarter of the number of deaths, while the traffic volume is tripled. This is a great development and result of a good and targeted work by many actors, not least non-profit organisations. A traffic accident is just called an accident because coincidences often play a role. As long as there are people sitting behind the wheel, there will always be a risk of accidents. Therefore, we politicians must do our utmost to mitigate the consequences of human failure. This can be done by reducing the risk of misassessments, i.e. driver measures, by the proper and properly equipped vehicles, vehicle measures, and by reducing the chances of the misassessments getting fatal results, which I would call roadside measures. The national Road Safety Action Plan 2010–2013 is non-binding and has not been politically addressed. To the right, there is a need for an obligatory overall strategy as a new platform for road safety thinking. At first it will be natural if this came as an important part of the national transport plan in a few months. A report prepared by No to Frontal collisions based on material from the depth analyses of the State Road Service from all the accident sites to all the 48 killed in the region east in 2011 shows that 8 out of 10 who died had so-called normal traffic behaviour. The report also shows that the road network with the most traffic, adapted to the requirements of the zero vision, has the potential to save 75 pst. by those killed in traffic. Where pitfalls have been set up, the meeting accidents have been eliminated. The report also shows that midpoints and midpoints were likely able to save 17 more lives in 2011. The physical road environment must help road users to make proper assessments in order to avoid accidents. In the event of a misassessment leading to an accident, the road environment shall be designed to minimise the damage, e.g.: through non-conference roads, clean sideways, clear separation of hard and soft road users. In particular, new pitfalls on existing roads must be given priority. Installing simple mid-drawing solutions, e.g. wire on the most trafficked or exposed national and county roads can be a very effective, rapid and cost-effective safeguard. I want to mention an example that I guess more people know. The 47 km distance between Stjørdal and Levanger was declared a zero vision section in 2003 under the Bondevik II government and a number of measures were taken. In 10 years, the number of injuries and deaths on this route has been reduced from an average of between 35 and 40 per year to 8 in 2012. Here they have, among other things: improved crossings, cleared side terrain, improved lighting, slowed down speed and built-in pass-by areas. In addition, curve improvements have been made. In addition, specific awareness-raising measures have been taken at local traffic schools. Midstations have been built, but no new road has been built. Over several years, the right has given priority to much more rapid development of mid-drawing mills. In the national transport plan, the government promised to build 750 km of adrift and other road safety improvements. However, there has been relatively little mid-trafficking. In total over these four years, 67 km will be completed. It's 233 km behind even the downscaled goal. Meeting accidents are the type of accident that kills most people. 70 pst. all traffic victims lose their lives in excursions and meeting accidents. The outcome of these accidents is strongly influenced by the road standard and the environment. That is why we believe that these accidents are the main responsibility of the state. In the right, it is necessary to define the measure of what is good. Only with a clear definition will it follow a commitment and thus the possibility of setting clear requirements for road standards. It is not acceptable that a lack of road standard causes or is the main cause of accidents. The development of Norwegian road systems is too slow today. Bureaucracies and heavy-duty solutions waste both time and money from development projects. For this reason, the Right is for a different organisation of the agencies, a different and faster planning and a different form of organisation to be realised, preferably in cooperation between public and private, where appropriate. We see from previous OPS projects that we halve construction time in larger road projects, we get better maintenance, more technical innovation and less risk of cost exceedances. So it gives us better and safer roads in half the time. Road action plans must be obligatory. In fact, implementing decisions must be complied with and construction cannot stop once it has begun. We want to change the road standards for building physical pitfalls and multifield roads. The long-term aim is to build middle parts on all roads with more than 4000 ÅDT, i.e. annual traffic. In the next NTP period, it is important to build a back-up works on all roads with an annual traffic of more than 6000. In particular, sections and sections of accidents, such as in certain periods — e.g. on weekends and holidays – are particularly stressed, however, we will already be preparing to build a midway network on roads of between 4000 and 6000 ÅDT. On roads with more than 8 000 ÅDT and up to the requirement of the ordinary motorway today, which is 12 000 ÅDT, we believe that narrow four-field roads with a width varying between 16.5 and 19 m depending on the traffic load. These should later be extended to the ordinary motorway when the traffic load so warrants. So all these daily driving intervals apply at a speed limit of 70 km/h or more. Overall, this could save 70-80 people per year from being killed or seriously injured. In its alternative budget, the right has prioritised 4.3 billion in the last four years. kr more than the government for road purposes. Most of this we have earmarked for traffic protection and traffic control. We take road safety seriously and want a clearer commitment and a plan for such measures in the national transport plan. I hope that the Council of State agrees with me on this, and that she can come back here today and give us a positive and clarifying answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e230	Road users, authorities and other actors that may influence road safety have a shared but shared responsibility in this area. Authorities are responsible for providing a road system that facilitates safe behaviour and protects as far as possible from the serious consequences of normal, human error or accident. Traffickers are responsible for their own safety by being careful and avoiding breaches of the rules. Vehicle manufacturers are responsible for the development and production of traffic-proof vehicles. And other actors, such as various stakeholder organisations are responsible for driving increased road safety – a task they take very seriously. The red-green government has reinforced the commitment to road safety, and we now see the results of that effort at historically low accident rates. In recent years, there has been a clear decrease in the number of fatalities and injuries in road traffic. In 2011, 168 people lost their lives in traffic, and the preliminary figures for 2012 show that the number has been reduced to 154 deaths. This means that the reduction in the number of accidents continues. Since 2005, the number of fatalities and injuries has been reduced by about 30 pst, and over the same period there has been a traffic increase of about 12 pst. Thus, the risk of being killed or seriously injured in traffic is lower than in a very, very long time, and Norway is one of the leading countries in terms of road safety. I want to stress that any lost life in traffic is one too much. The vision is that accidents with fatal and severe damage should not occur in the transport sector. Traffic accidents cause human suffering for the social and economic consequences involved. The Government therefore considers that it is necessary to continue a strong commitment to road safety and that it will also be at the heart of the work and content of the submission of the national transport plan for the period 2014 to 2023. Good knowledge of causal and accident risks is a prerequisite for prioritising different road safety measures and also for developing new, effective measures. Research and knowledge development are therefore an important part of road safety work. The State Road Service analyses all fatal accidents on Norwegian roads, and information on this work is used in the further road safety work. Analysis of road fatalities between 2005 and 2011 shows that the road and road environment have contributed to 27 pst. of the accidents. In addition, road and road conditions may also have contributed to the severity and extent of the accident. Government appropriations for targeted road safety measures, such as: the setting-up of backyards, the improvement of lateral terrain and the improvement of crossroads are therefore essential for the continuation of the reduction in the number of fatalities and serious injuries. We know that both the operation and maintenance of the road network are of great importance to the level of accident. The operation of the road network shall provide road users with safe and reliable accessibility throughout the year and maintenance shall ensure good road safety, good accessibility and a good environment. Practically all operational activities and very many maintenance activities have an impact on the likelihood of an accident occurring or on the severity of an accident. The standard requirements underlying the operation and maintenance of the road network therefore have an impact on road safety. In connection with the work of the agencies on their draft plan, presented last February, a socio-economic benefit was found by adjusting the current standard. The Road Administration has therefore revised its Manual 111 accordingly, and the new standard will be phased in from the autumn of 2013. This means essentially changes in winter operations and coverage maintenance, which in turn have an impact on road safety. One will raise the standard of winter operations and the maintenance standard of the road surface will increase for roads with daily traffic over 5000 ÅDT. This applies to both track depth and evenness. We have to recognise that there are major deficiencies in the road network today. The State Road Service has carried out a monitoring of the maturity of the national road network and is in the final phase of a similar monitoring of the county road network. On the national road network, it is intended to lie between 30 and 45 billion. kr. The large delay shows that it has been granted far too little for operation and maintenance for many, many years. The red-green government is concerned about keeping track of the road network we have, and that is why we have also provided a strong increase in the resources for operation and maintenance since 2006. It has provided a significantly greater consistency between appropriations and resources that are again necessary to ensure that the maturity does not increase. This year, priority is given to the means to maintain the current standard and to introduce a slightly higher standard for winter operations in force from 1 September 2013. This again means that the lag on the road surface will not increase in 2013. Overall, the maintenance activity will be maintained at about the same level as last year. It's true, as the interpellant says, that modern roads have a higher standard and thus fewer serious accidents than older roads. Since 2006, this government has opened, under construction or for start-up almost 1000 km of new national road. If we combine two- and three-field roads with a mid pull and a four-field road, there will be 768 km of non-conversation roads at the end of 2013 which are either open, under construction or for start-up. It's almost a double compared to when this government took over. Accidents at meetings constitute a major challenge on high-traffic roads outside congested roads. There is a need for strong commitment to measures aimed at preventing precisely that type of accident. The inter-pellant addresses the question of the new criteria for mid-pile mills. The state Road Service has had a proposal to consult to lower the limit on the establishment of roadside works from a yearly traffic of 8 000 ÅDT to 6000 ÅDT. Furthermore, if the accident situation and the risk of the accident so warrant, it shall be possible to establish a pitfall on roads down to 10 metres in width. The Ministry of Transport will assess this matter as soon as it is sent from the State Road Administration. However, let me remind you that a mid-pointing effort should not be the only focus area, and that there are also many other measures to deal with meeting accidents. I think it is important not to limit this debate to just front collisions and pitfalls. On roads with daily traffic below 2000 ÅDT, road accidents are a major challenge. Accidents with walking and cycling have gradually become the main safety challenge on roads in built-up roads. There is reason to recall that of the fatal accidents in 2011, the meeting accidents were 37 pst, while the road accidents were 34 pst. It will take too long to review all road safety measures now. But let me just remind you that there is a wide range of individual measures, from walking and cycling roads, road lights, curve measures, friction measures, cross-repairs, to signage etc. The sum of all these measures is important in order to increase road safety. It is still possible to achieve safety improvements by means of physical measures on the road network. However, I would like to stress the importance of a broad approach to overall road safety work. We must not forget measures aimed at road users and vehicles in the debate on the road. Analysis of traffic-killed accidents between 2005 and 2011 shows that inability to drive contributed to 54 pst. of the accidents, high speed to 47 pst. and vehicle conditions were significant in 22 pst. of the accidents. In addition to roadside measures, the government is therefore targeting measures such as: reducing speed, which has been an important contribution to the route of the Halleraker representative, from Stjørdal to Levanger, where one has reduced speed at the same time as one has built mid-driving works. Better and more targeted control activities, awareness campaigns and better organisation for walking and cycling are also very important. I don't think it's possible to build itself out of traffic accidents, and I think that in order to achieve the best possible effect of the effort it's necessary to see the overall picture of the road and the road user, and to assess new methods and measures that can complement the road safety work we have today. The inter-pellant calls for an obligatory road safety plan. During the spring, the government will present its transport policy objectives and strategies for the next ten years in a new national transport plan. This will be followed up by the State Road Service through their action plan and implementation plan. A number of measures will form part of such a plan. In addition, the State Road Service, Health Directorate, Police and Safety Traffic will present the National Road Safety Action Plan for the next planning period after the Storting has addressed the National Transport Plan, where there will also be a broad commitment to road safety, which will be concreteised.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e266	Let me first say that I thought it was positive and happy to hear about the measures that are now being taken to reduce the margins that can cause accidents on the road network in general, i.e. road-covered, and for maintenance. That's good. When we focus on meeting accidents, it is because we know that most fatal accidents occur as a result of meeting accidents. It is true that this breakdown of accidents has been divided between expedients and meeting accidents, but the fatal accidents are largely due to meeting accidents. We believe that this is an area where, as a government, we have a special responsibility, there is no doubt about it. Bad roads cause tragic accidents, and this interpellation – or perhaps we could say the invitation – went to the Minister of Transport to make a common political move to arrive at criteria for what is good and not least an obliging plan. I'm a little disappointed that we didn't bring anything much further, at least not so far in the debate. The Council of State mentioned how she will treat this in NTP, and that is very much just as it has been treated in the past. It is not surprising, in particular, that we have had representative proposals on this earlier, but then under another Council of State, where we were also negative about getting this as a commitment plan. We want more meddling, we want a change in the plan regime that involves a political commitment and not just a plan drawn up by substituents and organisations, which in and of itself is very good, but it is not binding on us as authority. In this plan, we should also provide new solutions to put roads in such a good condition that we avoid tragic accidents caused by the state of the road. That is why we will, among other things, building new and safe roads through OPS projects, and we will have verifiable and concrete criteria that can be verified by independent roadside supervision in terms of what can be called a good path. There is no doubt that each accident is a tragedy for those affected, but together it is a tragedy for the country. I hope the debate will show that there is a somewhat more positive attitude in the Chamber to get such a commitment plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e277	I perceive the interpellation so that it asks whether the government will come back with a more obligating plan in terms of road safety work, in particular related to mid pulleys, in connection with NTP. I can confirm that the government will come back broadly to road safety as the theme of the national transport plan. It will not only apply to meeting accidents, but it will also apply to all the other measures that are important in road safety work, including mention, objectives and plans for further work. And then I think it's a little narrow that one focuses so strongly on pitfalls, because it's not quite right as the Halleraker representative says, that most fatal accidents are linked to front collisions. The numbers I referred to in my post include just fatal accidents. There were 37 psts. of the accidents related to front collisions and 34 pst. of the accidents associated with off-road operations. It suggests that a wide-ranging effort should be made in this area, including both frontal collisions as a major risk and roadside accidents. But I think the last two years' figures will also show that more efforts need to be put in to the safety of the soft road users, because there has been a growing accident trend among them as far as we can see in the 2012 figures. That's why the government's approach here is that meeting accidents are an important topic, but there are also a lot of other important issues in road safety work, and we have to be careful not to make it too narrow. We're going to come back to this one topic, and also to the other issues, in the NTP. Then, as I said in my post, there are a lot of big things that can be done, but there are also a lot of small things that can be done, which are pretty simple, to improve road safety. I have pointed to what is going on in operation and maintenance, to an improvement in particular in winter operations and on part of the maintenance side. I have pointed out all the individual measures relating to a wide range of walking and cycling roads, road lights, curves, design, cross-repairs, signs etc. And then I have pointed out not only the great things that deal with the maintenance of today's behalf, but also the construction of a new road. In this connection, I showed in my post that half of the non-conference road that is ever built in Norway is built under the seated government. I also think at the end I have to mention that I think this is an important and serious debate. It is important that it is about the road, it is the responsibility of the authorities, and then we must also take responsibility for those who travel in traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e288	Last Friday, I was at the Memorial of Traffic Victims in Nord-Trøndelag in 2012. Just as the national figures show a positive trend, so there is a positive trend in my home country. We remembered three traffic fatalities, which is the lowest number of very, very long. And just as there's less damage on a national basis, so there's going to be in the North Throne Team. Nevertheless, we have to establish that 3 deaths in the North Throne Team or 154 deaths on a national basis are still 3 or 154 for many. But we also need to use positive developments as an inspiration to continue and intensify efforts to improve traffic safety. The fact that the numbers of fatalities and injuries in traffic are going down shows that they are beneficial and that we have taken action that works. Governments have already explained many of the measures we have taken and a lot of what has been done on the road network. The challenge now is that we have done the simple, light and uncontroversial measures – they have been used up. We need to slow down with a stronger lye. The zero vision – the vision of a future without killing and seriously harming traffic – works well as a leading star. I just want to briefly remind you that this vision is based on three fundamental pillars – it's about ethics, science and responsibility. The ethical dimension is very important, because it's about every human being being being unique and inalienable, and that's the whole basis for us working so hard on security work in all areas. Responsibilities are also something that we have encountered and are constantly ending up discussing in contexts where we are discussing road safety. Responsibility in the context of zero vision is defined as following laws and regulations by road users, while system challengers must facilitate the desired behaviour and protect against the fatal consequences of mishandling. Therefore, the goal is a forgiving road system where it is allowed to make mistakes, without having to pay for your life. Therefore, all measures on the road network are positive. Within the budgets available, we must do what is most effective in terms of road safety. The fact that the adjoining works work in a positive way is something we know. That is why a mid pull is built on two and three-field roads, and of course we will do more of that. The question asked by the interpellant is: What criteria should we have for a pitfall? Should annual traffic be 8 000, as it is today, 6 000 or 4 000? As has been said, the fait accompli has been consulted on a proposal to propose 6 000 in annual traffic, combined with a concrete assessment of the specificities of some road sections that should be avoided. We do not have knowledge that tells us not to listen to the professionals, and we look forward to recommendations from the trade union. For us, it is also important that we ensure that there is money left in the budgets for other important road safety measures. For example, the Transport Economic Institute says that road lighting on roads with traffic over 500 per day is the most profitable road safety measure. New knowledge and new research also show that enhanced mid-pointing has almost as much impact on road safety as physical pitfalls. We can never get a road system that takes into account wildman driving with high risk taking and high speeds. That is why we also need to continue our efforts in all areas within the field of road safety. We can never build ourselves out of all traffic accidents, and therefore measures relating to other parts of the traffic system are equally important. High speed, not to use seat belt, to drive in a drug-induced state -- all these are issues that we recognize, as we know are major challenges, and that we must continue to address. Therefore, we need to continue to increase police control efforts, but we also need to further increase the use of the route ATK, even though the Progress Party and the Right will terminate the route ATK. Evaluation shows that the number of deaths and injuries is significantly reduced by this measure and the Transport Economic Institute considers that there is a profitable road safety measure of a further 539 km by road. Training and awareness-raising work are also not excluded. The driver's training I think I have mentioned in all my posts about road safety from this pulpit during this period. We need to have a big focus on that. Traffic comes as a matter of choice in high school from the fall. It's not random -- it's a conscious choice. We have to discuss speed barriers, we have to discuss alcohol locks, and we have to apply other and new technologies. And yes, the zero-vision section of the North Tribute team from Stjørdal to Levanger works. But it works, as the Council of State also points out, because many road safety measures have been seen in the context. The more we succeed in road safety work, the more demanding it will be to find and apply new instruments. This will largely be about using new technologies that limit the freedom we have to choose for ourselves how we behave in traffic. Freedom of movement is not about freedom to drive as you wish, but it is about freedom to travel without being damaged or killed in traffic. The Russian president at Verdal said it last Friday: we have to take care of each other. Drive carefully – we have no one to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e309	It's a very important thing that the interpellant takes up. It's about saving human lives. But I record that you do what you usually do when we have these debates: go straight into the trench. After hearing the previous article, I understand that it is very different what you pay attention to. I fully agree – it’s about having a broad focus, it’s about the car and getting safer and safer cars, but it’s about the human being. The person who sits in the car is probably the one who moves in traffic somehow. Everyone in traffic is also responsible for attitudes and behaviour in traffic. Then, of course, it's also about the road. I think that's very good. Then I register that the Council of State boasted of what the government has done on the way. After seeing the Evening Post today, which almost describes how bad it is with the road standard and how much worse it has become, I'm not sure that it is necessarily such that you should boast that you've done so much. But yes, I agree that it is important to think about side terrain, that there are many road accidents, and that it is important to keep focus on them while also focusing on the middle and the four-field road. It's like a middle part reduces the number of deaths on a stretch by 70-80 pst. A four-field motorway reduces it by 80-90 pst. At least that means you have tremendous opportunities to reach the vision, which everyone agrees on, if zero seriously damaged and zero killed in traffic. I want to take a different distance, which is one of the examples that show that if you really want something, and if you really do it, you radically reduce the accidents -- E18 in the North Westfold. There were several fatal accidents on the route past Holmestrand every year. Since the opening of the four-field road in 2001, there has been one fatal accident. It shows that the effort to do something about the road network also reduces accidents considerably. I am pleased that the Council of State says that in the National Transport Plan she will come back with suggestions on how to work in a broad way to reach zero vision. It's very important. I am pleased that the Council of State says that she should improve winter maintenance, but I am a little more concerned when she says – it may well have been a delay – that it should get a little better. It doesn't just have to get a little bit better, it has to get a lot better. At least I get feedback from those who are on the road every day, who are professional drivers and who are frustrated by poor winter maintenance. Raise the standard on the road surface is very good. There I am very pleased with the signals coming from the Council of State. But I want to challenge the Council of State, because she says we have to think about and also look at the walking and cycling. Unfortunately, then, the trend is that the number of accidents is going up. Fortunately, accidents involving cars and vehicles go downhill, but it goes up for those who ride bicycles and walk. So I want to challenge the Council of State: we used to have Action School Road Resources, where there was a cooperation between municipalities and county councils where we had to contribute with a proponent. It was a very good arrangement that was removed many years ago. It could be fun to challenge the Council of State to look at reintroducing such a system now when you present your national transport plan, precisely to get more focus on those who are walking and cycling along the road, and to improve the standard there. Then I want, when the Council of State says that we build so much middle parts, and that this government has built more than half of everything that is built in Norway, to go to our neighbouring country, which is the best on road safety – they are the world's best on road safety. They're building 200 miles in the middle of the year. They say that for every 50 miles in the middle they build, they save one human life in traffic. We built in the year 19 km middle parts – we built 17 km last year. That means we're lying across the sky after what the Swedes do every year, but it also means that it's far until we reach the vision. But if you really wanted to, you would also have built several middles, and I hope the Council of State will do it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e328	Traffic safety is something that concerns us all, and I am happy that it is on the agenda today. We have a statistics going the right way, as both the inter-pellant and the state council have underlined today. It goes down, but both the opposition and the government have a zero vision over some time, and I'm very happy about that. As I said in my time as rapporteur in the home country, when we lost three young people in an outing, we have no one to lose. It's so tragic when it happens, not just for those who are closest, but for many, many in the community. It's going the right way – yes – but we're not going to be satisfied. It has also been stressed by the Council of State. It has to be done a lot further. The interpellant emphasizes that it's the road, it's the driver, and there's a vehicle that's the cause of many of the accidents that we're going to have, and I very much agree with that. He is calling for efforts in the coming NTP, and I hope so, and I believe that the Council of State is taking it along, and that she is really focusing on road safety in the new plan. We know that the Council of State is engaged. The last time we saw it was a memorial of the deaths of E18 in Westfold, and I think that's very nice. We had, as Susanne Bratli mentioned, a memorial in Verdal last weekend, with torches. We think it's very nice with such exposures, which are often initiated by Safe Traffic. It's helping to change attitudes in our society. Traffic is increasing dramatically. Since 1965 and until 2009, passenger traffic on Norwegian roads has increased five times, i.e. it has doubled five times. Traffic per freight kilometre has quadrupled. We know – and we experience when we drive ourselves – that freight traffic has become scary, not only because it is a lot, but also because we have got a lot of drivers who are not used to both driving and driving conditions on Norwegian roads. It makes me at least quite nervous sometimes when there is a bad roadway. And it's important to do something about it. As Halleraker's representative says, it's about three things. I would also like to stress that awareness-raising is very important. It's not long since I had a meeting with those who train traffic instructors. They're doing a good job today, but it's important to focus even more on it in the future. We have mind-building work in school. We had a home-built meeting with the police where the focus was that it's not hard to be dead. One showed a lot of movies and some relationships that were pretty scary, and so we made an impression on the kids. The kind of mind-building work we think is very important. Excursions are mentioned and there is probably no doubt that they are part of the spectrum. Side decks have also saved many lives. In the case of miners, I have been in doubt. I have to admit that before I got here, I was a lot of times a bit against it and thought that we could use the money on the narrow four-field road. I have to admit that I have changed my mind about it – a few years ago, at least – and I believe that it is unusually important to have a mid pull, especially on the hard-trapped sections. Road-to-sea goods are also clearly a means of reducing accidents. The right, through its alternative budgets, has allocated more money to pitfalls, in the assurance that it will save human lives. When the call goes to the Council of State to take that into account in the new national plan, we hope that she will take it along, and that we can get back a national transport plan that really focuses on road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e351	I want to thank the interpellant for just putting traffic safety on the agenda into the NTP year 2013. This is our most important job, and I believe we can say that over the years we have been sitting on the Transport Committee, the involvement around pitfalls has become stronger year after year. In this context, there is a relatively new tool in Norway, and we have seen how successful it is. Therefore, there is great expectation that when we come to the national transport plan, there is a focus on and a clear commitment in relation to the development of medium-sized enterprises to a much greater extent than we have had so far. I agree with the representative Bratli that we are forced to have the health perspective here. We have also seen just how important ATK – both point-to-point ATK, i.e. automatic traffic control, and distance-to-atk – has been. The distance ATK, which we've been given in the last few years, has produced very good results. The agencies' recommendation when it comes to distance-wise ATK is crystal clear. So it's also so that this has to do with the hold. It's not just about the car and the road, but it's about our tails, and I think it's important that we can turn our tails around. We know that we implemented the smoking law for a certain period of time. This has led to a change in attitudes among young people when it comes to starting smoking. My hope is that we can make corresponding behavioral changes among not least young men who are driving a car and who are often running too fast and irresponsible. I want to raise a specific matter today. It concerns the State Emergency Commission, which specifically entered a fatal accident on 10 September 2010. There was a passenger car that met a trailer on the E39 in West Agder, and there was a tragic accident, with several killers. Eight hours after the accident, the driver was checked per million, which showed 1.27 per million. So the State's casualty commission went in and examined this case. They saw that the car had been rebuilt, and they also went in and saw what the driver had done the last few hours before the accident. They didn't get to vote in agreement with the per mill check that was carried out. The State Emergency Commission asked the Public Health Institute to take a new test. The State's accident commission wrote, two years after the accident, the following: ‘The results of the tests showed that the driver had not consumed alcohol before he died but that the alcohol was formed in the body during the period between the death of the driver and the sampling.’; Imagine if the State Casualty Commission had not gone into this matter! Think of the relatives who experienced this tragedy themselves! My question, to which I do not ask for an answer, but which I would like to have the Council of State assess, is whether they should do what they do in Sweden, that all traffic fatalities are autopsyed, both on the basis of the knowledge we now have from the State Disaster Commission in this case, and not least because we can also get a knowledge of why the accidents happen. In Sweden, all road fatalities are autopsyed. This is a legal, ethical and economic aspect. I think we have to look at the legal and ethical aspect. The economic aspect must not be divisive, because we feel that drug use is a major challenge in terms of road safety. If we go back a few decades in time, we know that alcohol was similar to alcohol. Today, we know that drugs associated with road safety are more frequent – there are different parts of this. In the NTP, the Christian People's Party will re-submit our proposal on the transport plan of a child, precisely linked to road safety.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e371	We have debates about road safety here in Stortinget at regular intervals, and that is very good. As the Left sees it, road safety is the most important aspect of transport policy. That is why I would like to thank the representative Øyvind Halleraker for travelling this interpellation – and perhaps especially right now in front of the rolling of the NTP. Then you can really do something in both the short and long term, and you can make obligating plans, like the interpellant demand. In the previous roll of the NTP, the Left had a number of meetings with professionals and organisations. It resulted in a 10-point plan for increased traffic safety. Some of the measures were: more visible police on the roads, a reduction in the speed limit at the accident points and an increase in the bet on the physical middle parts, which the interpellant talked a lot about here today. The left was also involved in a desire for better quality and follow-up of driving training. We were told that driving schools should indicate the percentage of driving time, that there must be a greater focus on risk drivers, and that young people must be more actively involved in attitude work. In addition, road maintenance needs to be given the same focus and resources as new major projects. This is, of course, a major challenge given all the desire for roads around our country. One thing that hasn't been up here yet, is that there has to be more investment on the railway, so that we get more goods from the road to the track and fewer trailers on our roads. The left, along with the rest of the opposition, also wants to establish a stand-alone roadside supervision to ensure the quality of the roads, which the representative Halleraker was also involved in. The opposition’s proposal for independent roadside supervision on the same lines as the Railway Authority and the Air Safety Authority came after the crash in the Hanekleiv tunnel and the frequent closure of the Submarine Tunnel under Oslofjord – a tunnel that has proven itself to be the source of a number of problems. In an interpellation on road safety, I want to address just this tunnel and the fact that the State Road Service is now working on a construction plan 2, i.e. a new tunnel run under the Oslofjorden. However, on a written question from the Left, the Minister of Transport asked the Directorate of Road to assess the investigation of a bridge instead of a new tunnel. The background to the question from the Left was that the State Road Administration wants to build a new tunnel and base this on a 1997 political decision, i.e. before the Oslofjord Tunnel was built. However, 12 years after the opening of the Oslo Earth Tunnel, it tops the statistics on fire incidents, and it also has poor operational safety, and it is built too steep, i.e. contrary to the EU Tunnel Safety Directive, from which Norway was granted a derogation. The tunnel is on average closed every three days due to car storage and operational problems. The Road Directorate agrees with a new report from the Vegvesen Security Department which concludes that Norway has to stop building tunnels with more than 5 pst. slope. After the experience with the Oslo Earth Tunnel, it's hard to imagine that a new race will not have the same safety challenges as the old race. As the Left sees it, it must be beyond reasonable doubt that the planned construction of a new tunnel will provide the safest and most forward-looking solution before such work is started. It is wanted from many teams to get an impact assessment, where also the possibility of building a bridge over Oslofjorden was investigated. Such an impact assessment will ensure a new policy approach and ensure that the best decision is made. In conclusion, I could imagine challenging the Minister for Transport on her assessments of road safety and the construction of a subsea tunnel under the Oslofjorden.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e388	The interpellant addresses an important issue — particularly important in the run-up to the national transport plan. As the interpellant correctly points out, road safety is an interaction between three forces: road, driver and vehicle. For governing political authority, it often becomes too comfortable to talk a lot about the leader. It becomes too comfortable to reduce responsibility – its own responsibility for the road. I'll talk a little bit about the road. The construction of new road safety is important. New roads must be roads built with good capacity, which withstand high traffic loads and which ensure road users against just serious accidents. Developing European roads and major national roads with less than four fields and middle parts is not road safety in a good way. Still, it's being done. The examples are too many, and two of them are in Stortinget. As regards toll financing, we now have two major road projects under consideration in the Transport Committee. One is the piecewise extension of the rv. 4 in Uppland and the second in Uppland, also in Uppland. Four fields and two fields are built alternately. 4, and two fields are built on the E6 road. The road standard associated with ÅDT regulations is currently limited to road safety work. The Progress Party considers that these criteria need to be changed. We need to build more new roads faster. Then the economic framework must be increased and new financial tools must be used, as the Progress Party has pointed out in its current alternative national transport plan, and as we will do again when we are going to create a new national transport plan. Good road safety is faster development of modern, safe and environmentally friendly roads. Securing of existing roads is too late. The inter-pellant has shown examples of the government being more than 230 km behind its own target of building midway works on Norwegian roads. Today’s pace maintains an unacceptable risk of death and serious road traffic accidents. How far can the government defend today's pace at all? It can't be that the economy goes off if you build at a greater pace, as my colleague Hoksrud has pointed out that it does in Sweden. Even I would like to point to the E16, the Bergen–Voss section, which for the most part has become an overcrowded European road with many and ugly accidents. The last Minister of Transport was given a package of measures to secure the road. Many of the simple measures have been implemented. The heavier measures, which have a heavy and decisive safety effect, are either exposed or cancelled. The danger to road users consists mainly of E16. It's unacceptable. The road must be better secured, and it must be faster than the government provides. Good road safety is faster securing of existing roads and speeds up. The government is responsible, and the government has the money. The Council of State pointed out in its main contribution that taking care of road capital is also important for road safety work. In that case, it is obvious that new surveys now show that the follow-up to what is currently the county road network is about twice as large as assumed. This is not least due to the administrative reform, and it reveals that the economic package that followed the administrative reform has been close enough. For this reason, the state of a new national transport plan needs to go in completely different from now and take responsibility for refurbishment of the county road network across the country. Finally, a little notice: we have put in place some sort of roadside inspection. That oversight has come. Does the oversight do anything? When do we get visible results from the roadside surveillance that has been established?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e406	This is an important debate. Traffic safety is one of the most important areas in which we work in transport and transport, but it was Bård Hoksrud who made me take the floor. His claim was that we were going straight into the trenches – it was specifically directed to the representative Bratli – a strange claim. Both the Council of State and Bratli talked about what has been done, and what needs to be done, about the need to apply new research and technology – from speed barriers to alcolocks – about school training and many new measures, in short, to be much more offensive. So what kind of trenches it is, I don't quite understand that. The progress batch says they are concerned with road safety. Last week, the Political Spokesman of the Progress Party in Hedmark, Johnsen, was in the localities and told us that if the Progress Party came to power, all highways in Hedmark would be extended to four-field roads during 2018. How are they to cope when it is promised equivalent throughout the country? It's a mystery to me, but I'm leaving it now. What's more eye-catching is that Johnsen tells us that, for example. the Hamar-Rena route – a distance of six miles – with the policies of the Progress Party can be run in half an hour, because it is only increasing the speed limit to 120 km/h. For me, this is a strange form of road safety. There is a cross section of all professional recommendations, and all experience and research shows that high speed is one of the causes of fatal accidents. I think that in this debate many good and forward-looking ideas have emerged in order to reduce the number of road accidents. It is about better roads, but it is also about attitudes, behaviour, research and the responsibility that we all have in traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e415	The Council of State states that road safety should become a theme in the NTP. It's not a surprise, it's been a lot of times, but what we don't get is an obliging plan that we can decide on here in the house. The Council of State refers again to the figures for meeting accidents and outings. It is possible that there has been a revolution in the relative distribution, but then I will challenge the Council of State on what she is doing in view of the road accidents. What plans does she have for concrete improvements on side areas, railings, etc.? The council says it's narrow, what we're bringing up today. Yes, it may be narrow, but it's very important for them. So we're talking about the causal relationship that affects most people in this country. While this debate has been going on here today, there has actually been a new fatal accident, on the E39 – a meeting accident, which we have been notified of – with the loss of human life. So this is an important and serious topic, and I think it's a little disappointing that we get the impression that the red-green debaters are almost trying to turn the debate into behavior and leadership measures. Their posts leave such an impression, but the interpellation is about something that I've said many times: standards to make the roads better. No one has disagreed with the fact that the driving behaviour and the condition of the vehicle are also causes of accidents, but this interference went on the road condition and what we are responsible for. A little clarification on the difference of the zero-zero-vision and what I described as the Right zero-vision. Our zero vision is absolute and goes into the state of the road. The vision that very many agree on, which lies there far ahead as a vision and as a goal, goes more generally on both zero-killed, zero-hard damage and all traffic conditions. It's going to be a little bit heavier to meet. State councils say – she's almost insinuating – that this government is building so much more pitfalls than the previous government. I think Hoksrud said it well when he realized that it is a relatively new matter in Norway to build a mint. It might be interesting to challenge the Council of State on how many kilometers of mintwork the previous government she was in built.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e428	The debate on traffic safety is an important debate, and the events to which Mr Halleraker referred today give us a clear picture. It is an important debate. It will take a very long time before we're done with it, and it needs a systematic and long-term work to do. I think it is commendable that the representative Halleraker addresses this matter in Stortinget. I would like to refer to his own interpellation when he criticises us for pointing out that there are conditions at both road, road and vehicle that affect the accident figures. He himself takes that starting point in his interpellation and says that there is a shared responsibility, an interaction, between road, road and vehicle. That's exactly what I was busy with in my post. Much has been done in this area in recent years. I want to mention that in 2012, we started to have regions in Norway where there is no single fatal accident. Finnmark is such an area. This is an important development, which we will take with us and look at to see if there is transfer value, experience, that can be used for other regions. With regard to the soft road users, however, there has been some worrying developments in 2012, which means that we need to take a closer look at the traffic situation of these road users. For the sake of good order, I would like to say that the figures I refer to when it comes to road accidents and meeting accidents are taken from the depth analysis carried out by Vegvesen for the period 2005–2011. There are 37 psts of fatal accidents. in meeting accidents and 34 pst. on off-road accidents. Meetings accidents had a clear downward trend from 2006 to 2009, a slight increase in 2010, and a slightly downward trend again in 2011. This is the development of meeting accidents. In the case of road accidents, there was a clear increase until 2008, and then a slight decrease after 2008. I will in no way deny the importance of meeting accidents in terms of high traffic roads and accident statistics, but it is important that we have a broad approach in this debate, and that we have a clear prioritisation of the whole and the breadth of work on road safety. It's an important piece, but it's also other important pieces. Nor do we get away with the fact that attitudes, speed and driving errors are also involved in the overall work on road safety. I would also like to comment on Hareides and Trend's articles. Unfortunately, I do not have the opportunity to do that, but I can promise Stortinget that we in the NTP will return to a broad review of the road safety work in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e441	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e455	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e464	The Norwegian economy is going well. We are therefore in the happy situation that the country has a shortage of labour, as opposed to the situation in many other countries where they have a large surplus of labour. Although the macroeconomic situation is good for the country, it is not problem-free. Lack of skilled and skilled labour is common in many areas. The debate on the lack of engineers we all know about, in addition we know that there is a great shortage of professionals in the industry. But we also lack many other professionals. In the maritime sector, this is also a problem. We know that this industry faces major challenges in recruiting skilled labour with relevant education and specialised skills to meet future and current needs. It's not just the industry itself that's worried. The proposal for a representative refers to the concern expressed by the Directorate for Maritime Affairs about the quality of maritime education in Norway after 150 deviations have been detected during the period 2010 to 2012 in relation to the revision of 25 maritime educational institutions. A total of four higher education institutions, five specialised schools, two secondary schools and 14 training centres have been approved for STCW training and the quality has not been good enough. Since this became known, it has been working on the defects and deficiencies that have been pointed out, and this has happened in good dialogue between the educational institutions and the Maritime Directorate. In the last two to three years, a better division of labour and cooperation between educational institutions in this field has been systematically pursued, following the model of SAK work we know from other higher education and research. In this context, MARKOM2020 was established. The work under the auspices of MARKOM2020 is a follow-up to the Aasen Committee and the MARUT report. The Working Party, SV and the Center Party are very positive about the work that is being done, this because we need active action, no more investigations, and it seems that the work is going well. The systematic and strategic work and targeting of all relevant actors with the challenges identified by the Aasen Committee is the right way to go. It is very positive that this work includes both universities, colleges, colleges and secondary schools. In this context, it may be useful to point out that the higher education sector is autonomous, i.e. that it itself determines mainly its own education, which obviously has to be approved by NOCUT, but the sector chooses its own direction. The size no longer decides this. In addition, both vocational and secondary schools are owned and operated by county municipalities. The State has no authority to govern this directly. Therefore, there is limited scope to take action and concrete action on this issue. However, we will stress that it is important for the nation that we have a high level of competence in maritime education. All relevant actors must endeavour to follow up the conclusions contained in the MARUT report that are being worked on in the MARKOM2020 project. It is therefore important to ensure continuity and political pressure on the processes in place in the maritime education sector. The Workers' Party wishes to contribute in such a way that the parties strive even more to achieve the objectives of MARKOM2020. That is why we are going to organise our own hearing in the direction of the Workers' Party on the maritime education programmes later in this session here on the Stortinget. The government parties believe that the investigation's time is over in this case. Now there is a need for action from the institutions themselves and the states, and in cooperation with the industry. That is why we will be voting against a separate big message as proposed by the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e481	The maritime industry in Norway represents the highest technological development internationally in its field. In order to strengthen competitiveness, the industry is constantly looking for people with high professional skills who can participate in further development, innovation and research. Norwegian maritime education must therefore maintain a high level. In the daily work of the industry, digital tools stand strongly in the form of simulators, updated training via certified Broadcast Technology, collaboration platforms etc. In stark contrast to this practical digital working day today's maritime education. Tomorrow’s leaders in the maritime industry are currently being trained in a school offering out-of-date knowledge. In fact, at the secondary level, there are not even their own textbooks in maritime subjects. It is now a year and a half ago that we discussed the matter in this Chamber, and the government parties still do not see the need to present their own forecast of a strengthened maritime education. This is worrying. When a competent body such as the Directorate for Maritime Affairs also expresses their concern about the quality of maritime education in Norway, it shows that there is a need for a vigilance in the training of the country’s second largest industry. The Party considers that a notification will be made in order to achieve a satisfactory level of quality of training. The Progress Party has also, in the form of a note, carefully explained the situation of the learning material at Vg2. This is far from satisfactory – it is probably the closest to the finish line. Vocational school signals indicate that learning material is not much better there. Maritime professional training is expensive, more security courses are required and expensive simulators with high annual maintenance costs are required. The equipment can often be used by only one student at a time, followed by one teacher. According to MARKOM2020, educational institutions should have raised the amount to around NOK 250000 per study place, which is approximately equivalent. a tripling of today's grants. The industry prioritises education and contributes through the Norwegian Maritime Competence Foundation. It has the primary function of collecting and managing the amount to be paid per month by Norwegian shipping companies on ships subject to the net pay arrangements for offshore vessels of NOR and passenger ships of NOR engaged on international voyages and of Hurtigruten. The funds shall be used for measures of competency and recruitment for Norwegian seafarers. About 82 pst. the Foundation’s revenues in 2011 were used for grants to training places. This is close to 56 million. and show that the industry is involved and takes responsibility for the training. A total of 198 companies have training places. The maritime sector feels that the number of training places in the industry is increasing year by year, and we should be pleased about that. But maritime education also has a challenge in having enough teachers available. Often, former officers choose to go to school. They are usually not educators, and since there are no teaching materials, much of the time they could use to plan good teaching rather than to look for appropriate teaching material. The party of progress has no faith that this helps to maintain and strengthen the recruitment of competent teachers. The last time we discussed this matter, it was quite a matter of funding the vocational schools. The Progress Party still believes that responsibility for their financing should be returned to the State in line with other higher education. With this, I present the proposal to which the Progress Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e502	The representative Bente Thorsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e505	We have a large and important maritime industry in Norway with a proud history, but history is not enough to meet the demands and challenges of the future. That is why, in the right, we are raising again a proposal for a representative that has also been promoted earlier here in Stortinget. When we discussed this proposal a year and a half ago, we were concerned about the quality of maritime education in Norway. Since that debate, the Maritime Directorate and the Maritime Director have called for an alarm. This occurred after as many as 150 deviations were detected in the course of audits of maritime educational institutions in Norway in a few years. I think it is quite alarming that the Maritime Director expresses great concern about the quality of maritime education in Norway when we had a debate here in the Stortinget shortly before, where both the Council of State and the Government parties rejected that there was cause for concern. That's why it's quite thoughtful to hear the introduction to Marianne Aasen from the Workers' Party here today, where she uses a lot of her contribution to explain why we, the Stortinges' side, can't do anything about what's going on, and ends the article by rejecting the proposal that Right's promoting in connection with this representative's proposal, that we now have to get a big message where you can see the whole of the maritime education offer. That's what's needed. There's an even greater need for it than it was the last time we promoted the same proposal. Maritime nutrition employment kits approx. 100000 people in Norway, 25 000 of whom are seafarers. Half of the seafarers are officers. The requirements for competence and education at an ever higher level are increasing. This means that the requirements of educational institutions are also increasing. So then we have a situation where we know that this is an increasingly resource-intensive education, which is increasingly demanding technical equipment at a very high level. I had a couple of weeks ago the pleasure of visiting Bergen maritime school, which is perhaps the only one in Norway who has under the same roof both high school and college at a very high level in maritime education. They have almost gone on their own to acquire a highly advanced simulator, few of which exist in the education sector in fact throughout the world – a major investment, which also required the conversion of their teaching facilities, and which they have largely financed on their own. So this is the situation around it. Then there are several things that it will be important to look at. We have already had our small consultation with representatives of the maritime educational institutions, under the direction of the Right fraction, and I can tell the Labour Party that there were in particular three points that were concerned: One is the structure of the industry. It is fragmented, and there is clearly a need to look at the structure of the education sector on the maritime side. So that's the funding of the different parts of higher education. This is happening in different categories, and it is quite clear that some of the maritime higher education programmes need increased funding, among others. to consider the need for upgrading equipment. So it is that the cooperative that is established, that is very positive, and that obviously works well, but that has a lot to deal with, needs to get long-term funding. But first of all, there is a need for a comprehensive look at the maritime education offer in Norway, the time is overdue for it – therefore the proposal by the Right for a separate big message in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e530	Although the representative Dagrun Eriksen asked for the word after the Council of State had been advertised, the President would nevertheless recommend that all parties be given their five-minute post before the Council of State. Then the next speaker is the representative Dagrun Eriksen, and then the councillor Kristin Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e533	Thank you for that, President. There is no doubt that maritime education is sought after, it is important, and it is needed. We in the Christian People's Party are impatient to progress in the quality improvement that we believe this education needs, and we are also impatient to have a review of the field. I think it's a little passive when the government doesn't even want to provide a big message on how to get this field to be lifted and see the whole thing. There are so many actors who are involved and contribute in each of their fields, but it gets a little bit broken and divided. We've also noticed what's going on after the Aasen Committee's presentation, and that it's done a lot to coordinate something, but I think it would have been a strength for the whole field if the Stortinget had been allowed to get such a message and discuss this overall. Clearly, we need good teaching. We're very concerned about what the Aasen Committee came up with, and what has recently come up about the lack of education. We are also concerned about the funding, especially of specialised schools, and how we should be able to facilitate long-termity in this area. Let me also focus on two of the sailing schools that we have at secondary level, namely ‘Gann’ and ‘Sea Course’, which are also involved and contribute to the maritime education in this country. Both are schools that work well, they have zero drop-outs, they have a high degree of professionalism. Those who have received their education in these two schools are sought after in the rest of the environment. But the schools are struggling financially. It is clear that running private schools without capital funding is tough enough for those who have their schools on land, but for those who have their schools sailing by sea, who need seafarers present when going out and sailing, it is incredibly tough to be able to drive. But it's such a strong desire from the cancers behind these schools that they do it. Now, however, it is soon time for the state to take its responsibility for the economy. Of course, as the vote shows, we support the proposal that at least there should be a big message in this field that could have seen all of these pieces in context, and that could have lifted the field, so that we had a better quality of teaching, that the learning material was in place, and that we saw the whole thing, so maybe you didn't do double work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e546	All of us who have participated in big business, whether it's short or long, know that it's not necessarily a big message that answers all the challenges you have. I think that the initiative to raise maritime education as a theme in the Stortinget is important, but I need to point out what is actually going on here and now, and I have invited representatives from different parts of the industry to a meeting on just these issues quickly, because I see here there are many different actors that can be coordinated in a much better way in how to ensure better content in maritime education. So I'm more impatient than a big message. I believe that we should start quickly and take up the initiative here in Stortingen, and make sure that we can now both update on the situation and see if there are any other things we can do quickly. The proposal points out that the Maritime Directorate is concerned about the quality of maritime education, after 150 deviations were detected in the audit of 25 maritime educational institutions. That gives cause for concern. But what has happened afterwards is that all these deviations are closed, precisely because there has been a strong and close dialogue between the institutions and the Maritime Directorate. The government requests that the Marut and the Aasen Committee settings be followed up. The MARKOM2020 project, which started on 1 January 2011, and which the Ministry of Knowledge finances by 18.5 million. kr per year, is a direct follow-up to the MARUT report, which includes: were called for cooperation, division of labour, development of competences and increased attention to research-based education. The University of Vestfold, the University of Ålesund, the University of Stord/Haugesund and the University of Tromsø merged into this cooperation project. The partners have agreed on the development of specialisation and responsibilities and work to implement this in the Bachelor's training. Research is carried out to ensure that education and training support the needs of business and to enable institutions to provide high-quality education. From 2012 all the maritime vocational schools are also part of the project. The aim is to achieve a post-secondary education and to develop better transitions between vocational and bachelor education, as well as to develop operational cooperation between institutions, where appropriate. Proposalers believe that maritime education should be more centralised than at present. The higher education institutions themselves decide, under the law of higher education and higher education, what education they will provide, but in the department we give incentives and pressure on cooperation, division of labour and concentration. I am very pleased that the four institutions are now cooperating in the MARKOM2020 project. In addition, I would like to say that universities should have close cooperation with industries in their area. We have facilitated this through our own cooperation committees, but this is also an important part of the function of higher education in the districts. Vocational schools and secondary education are subject to the county council, and it is therefore primarily the county councils that govern the structure and resource use in this area. The county council is responsible for providing students with the training they require, including providing the necessary teaching material for secondary school students. In order to contribute to the development and production of teaching materials where there is no basis for commercial production, government grants are given to publishers and others who produce teaching materials for small and narrow subjects. The draft representative says that maritime education has a recruitment problem. In higher education, good growth has been achieved. Over the period 2005–2012, the number of first-choice candidates has more than tripled. In the field of nautical and marine engineering at vocational school level, there is also an increase. This is a joyful development and shows that recruitment campaigns have worked and that more and more young people want a maritime career. It is also pointed out that recruiting qualified teachers in maritime education is a major problem. The government has in the last five years through its strategy Steep course set of 134 million. to strengthen maritime education. The vast majority of these funds have been used to enhance the competence of teachers. Proposalers point out that maritime professional training does not have a framework plan. In the MARKOM2020 project, the aim is to establish by 2015 a national qualification framework for higher maritime education, approved in cooperation with the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e574	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e578	I think it's nice that the Council of State has taken the initiative of a meeting to see what they can do with the content of maritime education. That's what she's supposed to be for. But – as I have said – in high school level 2, there are hardly any separate textbooks in maritime subjects. The subject matter used is copies of books written in the 1970s. It is the Education Directorate that draws up the curricula, but the publishers have always been responsible for the preparation of the curriculum. There may be economic reasons why publishers choose to create textbooks and other material for major subjects with a high national weight. Maritime subjects are relatively small, and that may be why no up-to-date teaching material has been developed there. Will the Council of State ensure a greater national responsibility for the availability of educational material for maritime subjects?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e587	We have a system today with direct grants to subjects that are small, and that it is not commercially interesting for publishers to bet on, compared to broad, large subjects. I believe that the challenges facing the representative here are being addressed by that system. But let me now listen to what the industry has to say when I hit them if not so terribly long. There will also be representatives from the county councils to see whether the material available for having good contents in these training courses complies with the professional requirements and is easily accessible. I'm going to pursue that problem a little bit closer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e592	Every night, before I lay down, I read the biography of Kristin Halvorsen. It's a very good book to read. She has a good and warm heart for education, but I still have the benefit of reading about maritime education in the biography. I don't think that's random, and I don't think it's coming at the end of the book either. For the last two years, I've been raising maritime education in Stortinget. I discovered that there was a relatively small interest in the topic of maritime education, both at government level and at large scale. It looks as if this has changed with the Council's response to the Committee, and I am pleased with the signals from the Council of State, if not least meetings. But this has something to do with efficiency and governance, and an overall opposition has at least shown that we have strong ambitions for maritime education. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that the structure of post-secondary education today is a problem for the quality of maritime education?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e601	Now I was almost tempted to release a volume two that is exclusively celebrating maritime education, for this is a very exciting field, and it could at least become a fittingly full book. I am sorry that I have not been to all aspects of the Norwegian education system in this area, but I would like to thank the representative Kambe for having addressed these questions at regular intervals. He is not a member of the committee in Stortinget that is responsible for education, and it is very important that everyone who works in other areas is also concerned with the competence and structure of education in the fields in which they are interested. It is also an objective for me that we should spread the skills desired further. I believe that we have a pretty good starting point, and that it is important that the technical schools' offerings in this area are developed and should develop further, and that we have more entrances to the maritime training courses. There are certainly things that can be improved in this area as in other areas, but I think we have a good starting point, which also gets more attention and becomes more popular.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e610	Replica No. two to Arve Kambe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e613	Maritime education is costly, both because we have an inappropriate structure and because of the learning skills. Many of the teachers are older. Many teachers who are going to work there like to compete for jobs in the Maritime Directorate, the Coastal Agency, shipping companies, the locating profession and other types of jobs, and teaching positions like to have too low a salary – that's one thing. The second is that the equipment is very demanding. In many regions, especially where higher education is located, the maritime industries have often been involved in financing equipment in higher education, colleges and higher education. It is quite obvious that the maritime schools are in a too weak funding category. With Halvorsen warning a new maritime strategy from the government, I can at least hint a little about what the Right thinks about its maritime strategy, which is also on the way. It goes, among other things, the fact that just this type of school has to be moved into another category of funding, so that they get more money per class, so that they have equipment, textbooks and pay to pay for the learning outcomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e622	This is really a purely budgetary issue, and we have a pretty long line of education that seems to deserve to be in other categories of grants. I don't deny that it can be a problem, because it's absolutely right that we have a group of educations that require quite considerable investment. What's very important here is that you can get good cooperation with the industry, because real jobs are also a very good starting point for learning, and there's up-to-date equipment. That's one of the things we get into the message we're going to present to the Storting. I would like to say one thing: All the questions that have come so far in the line change do not require a big message. They can be followed up in other ways, whether they are budgets or other types of facilities when discussing education. That way is actually faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e629	I love state councils who are impatient and don't want to wait for big messages – although I have to say that I'm not so excited that I read the biography of Halvorsen – I have probably other books on my night table! I also love state councils who have an understanding of how important it is to involve this house. I agree that it may well be that it is possible to do it in other ways than via a big message, but I am a little disappointed when I read the attitude of the government parties in the setting today, where it is really most about explaining why we cannot have a big message, and otherwise you refer to the letter from the council. Let me then ask the Council of State: Does the Council of State think that the letter that is attached to the matter is the way she wants to inform and involve the Stortinget, or can we expect that we will have a little more opportunity to intervene in terms of how this field should be further built?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e636	That letter shows that we are taking offensive action in many areas relating to the maritime sector, but it is a demanding and complex sector to see in context, so I appreciate that there is also involvement in the Stortinget regarding how this will develop further, and that there is impatience from all those who are concerned that the maritime sector should have a high professional level and develop further. In both budgetary and other contexts, it will be possible for the Storting to come back and ask about this. In addition, the government is now discussing a comprehensive maritime strategy and its renewal, as also stated in the letter, and it is clear that education and competence will be an important part of that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e643	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e648	As mentioned earlier today, the Stortinget has for two years called for progress in maritime education, and after reading the ministry's letter to the committee, I will give tribute to the Council of State and her department, because we see that they have at least begun to take this seriously in a completely different way than before. This shows that the Storting can control policy, not necessarily through decisions in the Storing, but through influence. Because I think I have almost never heard the Workers' Party, SV or the Center Party talk about maritime education in Stortinget, either before I ended up at Stortinget or – not least – afterwards. It is largely the opposition that has taken the initiative during this period, and then the government parties have come naggingly after. It is fair enough as long as the situation is as it is parliamentary. Maritime nutrition is very important for Norway. It is perhaps the second largest cluster of nutrition we have, with many highly skilled workers in the workplace, both in the supplier industry and in the ships. It's higher education. The usual professional letters also have a high level of education and need for quite intensive further education through the course of life. Today, there are four colleges working on this. That is not the structural aspect that we are dealing with in the proposal for a representative. What we focus on in the proposal is the structure of secondary schools and vocational schools. We have about 20 colleges and 14-15 colleges. There are relatively few students for so many places of study. And when we know that everyone who wants to become a seafarer has a reasonable degree of flexibility in where they're going to work, I guess they have a low threshold to move on during education. In fact, most of it is a structural change. One of the things we've been raising with the head of the Aasen Committee is whether a big message is too much compared to what we're asking for. Yes, she can. We are involved in all the concrete proposals, both small and large, that can be taken along the way, but we have seen that the government has not been interested in it, until now, and so has the Aasen Committee also said that a big message would have revealed and solved some of the structural problems, aroused the Ministry of Knowledge, aroused the county councils and not least had the colleges awakened to get better cooperation. Thus, we have maintained that a big message would solve it, but if the Council of State now signals that the financing system for the vocational schools can be changed in a way that makes it interesting for the county councils to centralise an offer, and that you can get backing from the government on it, without becoming a district policy, but that it becomes a maritime policy, then there are interesting signals. But I think so when I see it. There have been too many meetings. Now is the time for action. From the government shift in 2013, we are ready to change the maritime policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e660	The maritime sector faces major challenges with regard to the recruitment of relevant skilled labour to meet future needs in the industry. It seems clear that the current financial system for the vocational schools is not adapted to the need to strengthen maritime education, as the representative Arve Kambe from the Right just described. This is serious given that the maritime industry is one of Norway’s largest food clusters and is an important part of our business. Maritime competence is essential if we are to assert ourselves in the global competition for knowledge jobs. This is one of the reasons why the Right for the second time asks the government to present its own big message on a strengthened maritime education. We share the Maritime Directorate's concern for the quality of maritime education, and we stand behind maritime director Olav Akselsen when he says that poor quality in Norwegian maritime education will weaken the reputation of Norway as a quality nation in shipping. It's important to take care of the good quality we've had there. Maritime professional training is resource-intensive – professionally demanding for pupils and educational staff and economically demanding for the school owner, who should have continuous up-to-date and relevant equipment. Hardly any equipment in Norwegian school is as expensive as in maritime education. With many and small educational institutions involved, meeting the costly equipment requirements of maritime education is a major challenge. We must take this politically seriously. If we are to invest in knowledge for maritime nutrition, we must also invest in equipment for maritime education. There is a clear need for a lift in the field, and a working group set up by MARUT has promoted a suspension with proposals for a new national structure for maritime officer training. The Committee recommends concentration of educational provision, differentiated training courses, recruitment, a national framework plan, cooperation and division of labour and development of competences. Furthermore, investments in infrastructure and increased research and training activities are recommended. In the right, it is important for the government to follow these recommendations from the sample. We feel it is urgent to ensure continuity and political pressure on the processes initiated in the maritime education sector. We are therefore very disappointed that the government parties once again choose to reject the proposal from the Right to make a big message in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e675	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e689	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there should be a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Bente Thorsen, who is the rapporteur on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e700	Actually, Mr. Tord Lien is the case rapporteur, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e705	Mr Thorsen has the floor for the rapporteur, yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e708	The matter under consideration is a committee vote in response to the Left's Document 8 proposal for 2011-2012 to establish several centres of excellence. I would like to thank the Left for taking the initiative to discuss this important issue in the Stortinget and the other parties in the Committee on constructive cooperation and effective work in the Committee. The background to the proposal is the desire to increase the quality of Norwegian education, which needs to be emphasised. Both the results of international rankings of educational institutions and alarmingly high non-response rates show this. Norway has a higher cost level than most of the countries with which it competes. It is only by creating a knowledge-based business that produces innovative goods and services that we can compete in an increasingly internationalised and knowledge-intensive business. It is therefore important to be ambitious in developing knowledge through research and development and to focus on the results of research. At the same time, an overall committee shows that the centre schemes under the auspices of the Norwegian Research Council have improved the quality of research. It is also fully agreed that a similar focus on centres of excellence will contribute to strengthening the education sector. The Committee also points to the potential for good synergies between SFFs — centres of excellence — and SFUs — centres of excellence, where the integration of research, education and practice will be central. The State budget has already allocated funds to three new centres of excellence. That is what all parties in the Committee believe to be positive, but further efforts must also be made to establish more centres. There, however, the consensus ends. I assume that representatives of the red-green majority will explain their views on this. However, the Progress Party believes that, in the period ahead, we need to work on strengthening the quality of higher education. An instrument in this way is to strengthen the coherence between research and education, to strengthen the status of education in academia, to establish a stronger culture in academia for student-driven research, and to explore how to strengthen education. The Progress Party believes that the SFU scheme can contribute to this, and that the scheme should be established in several parts of the country and with a focus on several professional disciplines. However, when we have not chosen to support the proposal in the document on establishing 20 SFUs by 2020, it is because we believe it is premature to propose a fixed, concrete number of SFUs by a given date. The Progress Party considers one of the reasons why the SFFs, SFIs – centres for research driven innovation – FMFs – Forum for Material Acquisitions – and NCEs – Norwegian Centres of Expertise – have become a success is that there has been a strong quality focus, open calls and awards based on high quality among host institutions. High quality requirements should equally be pursued in the further work on SFUs and it should result in a certain status being allocated to a new SFU. Excellent education is too important for the future well-being and value-making of the country for resources – both economic and human – to be fragmented too much. On the other hand, it is strange that the majority does not want a more strategic approach from the Stortinges side to this important work, in particular given that the Halvorsen Council of State at the Research Association Conference on 6 November 2012 called for longer-term strategic planning of the framework conditions for the university and higher education sectors. The Progress Party believes that this is a good intention, and that the Stortinget should be included in this strategic work. It should also be a matter of course that this approach is based not only on building stock and other infrastructure but also on the development of strategic professional research and education programmes. With this, I present the Committee's position and promote the proposal to which the Progress Party is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e731	The representative Bente Thorsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e734	The case spokesperson has gone through the case in a good way. I think all the parties in this room are very remarkable about the work of raising the quality of teaching. There are many ways to do it, including: to establish a centre of excellence from education. That was also the reason for the establishment of the first center barely two years ago. When the government now in the budget for the current year allocates 10 million. This is due to the high expectations of this way of raising the quality of education. This is also underlined by the Council of State in its letter to the Committee. As a case spokesman for Announcer. St. 13 for 2011–2012 Welfare Education I am naturally pleased that the Council of State points out that one of the three new centres should be geared towards precisely health and social education. It's like this in line with the big message. This is an appropriate way of working politically. One outlines the policy and direction of a big message. Implementation takes this into account in the annual budgets, as our recommendation for decisions is marked. But the direction and the expectations are shared. The Labour Party believes that these centres will complete and to a large extent contribute to equalising research and good education in the sector. In addition, the intention is to stimulate the development and innovation of learning methods and educational organisation in education from the point of view of education. I believe it is faith-building that the Council of State has signaled that this system should be of high quality. So it is good that NOKUT is responsible for the entire call-out process until it is realized once in the fall. Whether there should be exactly 20 centres and the same number as there are centers of research is not the most important thing. But, as I said, the direction and expectations of all in this Chamber are probably shared with the proposer. For this reason, it is also recommended that the matter be referred to the Minutes. And then we get to realize where it belongs, just in the annual budgetary processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e751	I must first be allowed to comment that it was exciting to hear the representative Tor Bremer recommend a big message as a good way to take the general guidelines, then to take it into the budget. Obviously, this was not the case in the previous case of maritime education. But we're going to have to take that with us. We in the Right greatly appreciate all those who make good and constructive proposals in order to increase the quality of Norwegian education. I would therefore like to begin by commending the Left for putting the quality of higher education on the agenda through this proposal. Centres for excellent education are a good measure that we in the Right have great faith in, and it is good with the centres that have now received their appropriations in the State budget. We also support the Left's initiative to have more such centres in place and believe that the government must continue to step up this effort. The right has repeatedly called on the government to draw up a strategic plan for higher education. What are our objectives for our higher education institutions, for our universities and for our research communities? How are we going to manage to train the right number of candidates for the different professions, and how are we going to do to trigger commitment, creativity and free expression in the institutions, while at the same time meeting society's needs? Such a strategic plan could also provide the basis for the further establishment of centres of excellence. It is not easy for us to say how many such centres should be set up to give the right boost in the various disciplines. This is why we in the Right do not support the concrete proposal from the Left to set up 20 such centres, but I am pleased that the opposition has gathered on the proposal that a stepping-up plan should be drawn up. It has also been exciting to note that the Council of State has now also begun to ameliorate the need for a long-term plan and strategy, specifically launched at the Research Association Conference, and as an idea for the structure and buildings of research. I expect that when the Council of State has now seen the need for such a plan, and – according to her herself – this airs as an idea, it is because she has thoughts of doing something about it. We appreciate that and hope and believe that such a plan also includes higher education and forms the basis for a stepping-up plan for centres of excellence. I'm glad that it seems like the Storting is gathered about the intention – just as the previous speaker said – to establish even more such centers. As I said, the three who came into this year’s budget are good. I record that the government parties state that this is also a budgetary matter in the continuation. We have never doubted that either. Then it is good to start working on a concrete plan now. The Stortinget is invited to adopt today. There is no majority for that, but I am at least glad that the government parties do not reject the proposal, but propose to attach it to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e764	An old Left lady taught me once for a long time before the word "focus" had taken over into Norwegian politics, that what you center is given power. There's a lot of good intentions, there's a lot of consensus about direction, there's a lot of low expectations, and there's a lot of talk about focus. But sometimes you feel that politics today is very out of focus when you start talking about focus. Setting clear targets and showing them through budgets, of course, is what we do as politicians. The merciful Samaritan had, as he knew, not only good intentions, but actually had the money to pay for himself as well. Turning knowledge into something with a higher status is an important task for us as politicians. We should have high ambitions that the dissemination of knowledge is as important as finding knowledge, and we need to give status to the dissemination of knowledge. We do that through what we're going to do with the teaching profession in the future, but also in terms of how we're going to disseminate higher-level knowledge. That's why I believe that there should have been greater ambitions for the development of such centres, at the same level as what has been done with centres of excellence, just to say that research and dissemination are both very high-quality parts of our university and college departments. The left also supports the proposal for an escalation plan. We do not see that there is any conflict between having a stepping-up plan and having a target for a stepping-up plan, but we would like to be in charge of the goal of a stepping-up plan while we are in charge of the escalating plan. We're going to show alternatives in our budgets, and we're going to show in what direction this is going to go. So here you need the whole compassionate Samaritan attitude, both to be willing to pay money and to have good intentions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e775	Does the President assume that the representative should make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e778	Yes, thank you, I will. I am referring to the proposal from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e784	The representative of Skei Grande then mentioned the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e787	A centre of excellence has already been established and, as a number of have been involved, three new ones will be established during the year. We are now in the process of announcing the competition between institutions to be a centre of excellence. That means we've gone from one center in 2011 to four centers in 2013, and that's the start of an escalation. I am pleased that there is such a broad consensus in Stortinget that this is a good tool. It's the opposition's privilege to be a little bit more impatient than that position is, at least in relation to saying that you need a long-term escalation plan. In any case, it's the budgets every year that determine how many centres we're going to have. I am very pleased that the first centre, which is a collaboration in teacher education between the University of Oslo and the University of Tromsø, is established and got this central status after a competition. The whole point of stimulating the establishment of centres of excellence is to make sure that we focus even more on what is knowledge of teaching, learning and research in teacher training — and now in three new areas as well. We've said that one of these centres wants health and social education, the quality of which is good enough. I'm very concerned with what's happening here as an undertone, namely that the interest, status and performance of the higher education institutions' educational assignments need to be raised. It's part of a much larger discussion, and that means that the research report will also address not only research alone, but also some of the context of education. Last week, the annual contact committee meeting between the institutions, which was just about quality in education, had a very central place. I feel that there is a very growing interest and ambition in the sector to get to this, not just related to the centres of excellence, but across the board. I am pleased that the Storting agrees that this is an area that is important to bet on in the future. In the 2013 budget, 10 million are earmarked. NOK to announce another three centres – which I was in. I have great expectations that through the practices they can demonstrate, these centres will contribute to the development and innovation of learning methods and educational organisation for students. For me, it's a paradox that we gradually have a lot of knowledge and research on what's good at primary and secondary education – we do a lot of research on it – but not similar about what's the quality of education at the higher education institutions that actually do research. So in this area, it's very important that we have an increased level of ambition and an increased desire to develop clearer quality criteria on what we think is good education, and what we think is right to expect from learning outcomes in different educational institutions. Now all educational institutions have just developed descriptions of learning outcomes for their education, and that makes us have a good starting point for it as well. If we also get more solid centres of excellence, we'll be in a common focus on this. The whole point of these centers is that what they're doing, and the quality to which they can refer, they're spreading to other areas. I'm absolutely sure in the annual budgets we're going to come back to this problem, and I hope that there's going to be a lot of interest in applying to the three centers that we're now lighting out, and that they're just going to be locomotives in terms of attracting quality and ambitions. So after this year's call round, we've gone from one to four centers from 2011 until now, and that's a good start.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e806	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e820	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e829	The Committee is very much in agreement with the proposers that as many as possible of those who want higher education are able to do so. Nevertheless, in the Committee's view, no alternative admission test is necessary as a basis for admission to higher education. The current system of real-time competence assessment and the Y-direction in addition to general study competence as the basis for higher education admissions seemed sufficient. A unanimous committee is agreed in what the Minister of Knowledge writes in his reply to the Committee that there is a need for simple and prudent requirements for admission to higher education and for ranking qualified applicants. This is a requirement for students in further training to be able to make good judgements and the right choice of higher education. The majority of the Committee – members of the Labour Party, the Progress Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party – further view is that most applicants for higher education in Norway are satisfied with common recording rules based on common recording requirements and ranking of qualified applicants. Nor does it seem to be a big wish from the institutions when it relates to admission attempts as a general scheme. So the majority sees no great need to change the current legislation. It is such that general study competence provides a basis for admission to higher education. We are well aware of the regular way through the educational programme of continuing education, but also adult applicants who can document five years of professional experience can search for the 23/5 rule. Furthermore, it is possible for all without general study competence to have their real competence assessed as a basis for admission to a particular study. These must necessarily be ranked in relation to ordinary applicants. These are the institutions responsible for carrying out, possibly through an interview or a test. Furthermore, the government has introduced a system of Y-roads for those with professional letters and experience, but who lack general study competence. This may give rise to admissions to different education systems, e.g.: I would like to mention a particularly successful training in engineering. I have now briefly named some alternates. In addition, the proposers have a desire for more use of recording samples. Of course, it is possible to introduce it, but I fear that the result will be a more complicated system that will be less transparent and less conservative for the students. In addition, this could mean a weakening of the Coordinate Recording. At least that's not desirable. I hereby advise the committee, as it appears in the matter. Of course, when it comes to minorities, they themselves will do their best for their eyesight and, if necessary, make their suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e850	We in the Progress Party agree with the intentions of the Left in this proposal. We agree that we must strive for an education system where both those who want it and those qualified for it have the opportunity to take higher education. At the same time, the rapporteur was concerned with simple and predictable requirements both for grades and for the relevant educational background in order to qualify for higher education. It makes it easier for students to make good and informed choices early and to work towards a specific goal in higher education. The left is in its proposal that the model they want to introduce after the inspiration of the Swedish ‘university test’ is a better alternative than what has been discussed in the past — reducing the requirements for obtaining general study competence. We agree, but we don't think there is a need to lower the requirements either for one or for the other. Lower requirements reduce the importance of achieving good results at the preparatory stage and could lead to a deterioration in the quality of the training course later on. It is important to have access to higher education as much as possible, but we believe – like the majority of the committee – that this has been achieved through today’s schemes. However, even if you do not have general study competence, you have access to higher education both through a real competence assessment and through the Y-way. Both of these schemes are important to ensure good access to higher education. That is precisely why, in the Progress Party, we have on several occasions called for the strengthening of mechanisms such as: Y-way. The Y-route provides an organised offer in higher education based both on previous education and on work experience. At the same time, the scheme provides for the recognition of professional competence as valuable also in an academic context. In order to ease the admission requirements for higher education by introducing only a general admission test, this could help to erode the principle on which the Y-route is based, namely the recognition of professional and professional competence in the academic context. Quality will always be more important than quantity for us in the Progress Party. The explosion in the number of higher education students is in many ways positive, but it also poses some challenges – challenges in ensuring a good academic offer and a high academic level that are able to meet this increase in the number of students. Looking at developments in today’s situation, it seems more logical to work to ensure a good professional quality in education than to work for even more people to participate in it now. Of course, we in the Progress Party are committed to ensuring that all those who want it, and who are competent and qualified for it, have access to higher education. But, as I said, like the majority of the Committee, we believe that this has been done through good, flexible and long-term arrangements that are already in place today. We have an offer of general education, which enables professionals to acquire general study skills, and we have real-time competence assessments that ensure that, with only professional backgrounds, they also have the opportunity to qualify for higher education. With this, supplemented by the important Y-way, we see that today's systems uphold this principle. There is no formal need for a further increase in access to higher education, which this proposal seeks to introduce.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e863	In a society where formal education is increasingly required — often at a higher level — to get a job, it is natural that there is a debate on how to get the most of our citizens this entry ticket. The challenge concerns young people who make their choice of education, and not least those who have taken a course but who have since experienced that they themselves will, or meet challenges that make them feel they need to, build on formal competence. The conditions for further studies are discussed here, and that's good. The right has repeatedly called for us to ensure that people who want to expand their skills have the opportunity to do so, even though they do not necessarily have the traditional and most normal way through school. We in the Right are pleased that there is now a greater understanding of the use of real competence assessment for admission to higher education. We are also pleased that we are experiencing increasing support when it comes to looking at the Y route as a possible entry ticket for studies in several disciplines. The commitment to opening several doors to further studies we have in common in the Right and Left, but in this case we still conclude differently. Why it's become like this, I'll try to explain. The proposal from the Left on an alternative Swedish model recording test may be used to demonstrate the necessary knowledge of higher education candidates. In our opinion, however, the same knowledge can be acquired and checked through real competence assessment of candidates. Thus, such a test will not necessarily trigger opportunities for more, and at the same time a separate bureaucracy around such a scheme is required. Instead, we will use resources to develop good arrangements around today's opportunities. However, we in the Right are most concerned about the proposal to allow each institution to establish its own admission requirements and to make its own emphasis on the subjects. Today's coordinated recording system works well, and we have not realized that there is any strong desire to change it. For those young people who want to choose education, today there is a wide range of choices, and we know that it is challenging to give them advice and guidance that can help them make the right choices. In our opinion, it will be even more difficult, confusing and confusing to create unclear admission options if different institutions are to be able to operate with different admission requirements for the same study offer. Such a scheme could also result in changing the requirements along the way, and students who have started, and planned, a career path, will be able to experience changes and closures for them along the way. I think the Left probably has thoughts about, and certainly has thought, that this should be done in a neat and predictable way, but for our part we think it seems both uncertain and demanding. Such a scheme could also create uncertainties about differences in the knowledge base of graduates with the same subjects from different educational establishments. That is exactly what we are going to discuss later today. The right will therefore not vote in favour of the Left's proposal in the case, but we will continue to press for good career paths where both the real competence assessment and the Y-way as a model are further developed. In this context, I would also like to point out the importance of finding the place of vocational schools in such a system. Good career paths are inspiring and will provide more opportunities for new challenges and tasks. For us, it is important to make sure that there are good opportunities for lifelong learning, and that it is made available to all the people, throughout the country. Then we have to be creative and look at new ideas and solutions, while maintaining predictability and making it easy for both young and old people to make the right choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e876	The central party also believes that the proposers have put a good intention at the bottom of the changes they are addressing in this proposal for a representative. However, I can't see that the proposal will neither simplify nor provide more access to higher education than the systems we have today. With regard to the proposal to introduce an admission test à la ‘University test’, I would like to limit myself to referring to the letter from the Council of State attached to the suspension. There I think it's well explained why we don't think it's a good idea to adopt such a scheme from the Swedes. To decide what to become when to grow up is a big and important choice. It is important that the search process and search options themselves are transparent, so that young people seeking training have the opportunity to brief themselves and make correct and informed choices. We know that many high school students are striving to decide what to choose when to go to high school. The current system of general study competence provides a transparent and broad input to higher education. If the way into different education and training institutions is made dependent on special combinations of subjects and specific admission rules, it becomes an even more difficult youth for the pupils to manoeuvre in. This could mean that educational choices are further accelerated, and perhaps it pushes forward choices that are not well thought out and closes doors. When the introduction of admission tests is not a desire of the educational institutions, I cannot see that there are any good arguments for opening up a more fragmented and more inconspicuous system – which I fear will be the result of the representative proposal. Nevertheless, there is reason to focus more strongly on opening doors to those who want higher education but who lack the entrance ticket ‘general study competence’. The centre party has long said that there is a great need to improve the flexibility of the education system, and then we mean everywhere. When both the public and private sectors have a critical shortage of skilled labour, it is necessary to open up training courses for those who wish to take higher education to the goal, not least those with a professional background. I've already said it from this pulpit, but it's absolutely a point to repeat it: many of the best engineers we have have have have a letter at the bottom. Experience in opening up the opportunity for students with a degree letter to enter some engineering studies has been very good. It is high time to give the same opportunity to trainees from other disciplines. This government has opened up a Y-route for health professionals and child workers wishing to move forward in nursing, protective care, child protection education and pre-school teacher training. The size has joined the proposal, and now I hope that the educational institutions will deal with this, and that the trade unions will meet it, so that we can start such experiments quickly. I hope that the left also sees the value of developing new Y paths. There is in no way a secondary approach to higher education, or a weakening of the level of the candidate mass of the country's universities and colleges – I would rather say the opposite. As the experience from the Y-route shows, a practical course of training gives good candidates to the university and higher education institutions. In this context, let me also draw attention to real-time assessment and vocational education as a possible way to further studies at university or higher education. Vocational education is a maritime platform, but it is important to show that this route also provides opportunities for further specialisation and higher education. It is valuable for individuals to be able to formalise the real skills they have acquired through their professional life. It is therefore important that a future dimensioning of study places takes sufficient account of the needs represented by vocational schools, so that both young people and adults who want to build on their skills are given a real choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e897	It's said that it's hard to know what you're going to be when you're little. But sometimes it's just as hard to know what you did wrong as small, when you didn't get what you thought you would be when you grew up. I mean, we're too busy for people to fit into squares. We're too concerned that in this room things should be transparent. I have to admit, I love people who don't fit into squares. I love people who want to try other ways, try things that aren't so streamlined. That's why I think it's important to have different paths into higher education. That's why I think it's super with the Y way. That is why I think it would be desirable to develop, and you have to look at how it can be used. But we all know that we have different strengths and different ways to show our skills. If you move into student democracy, you end up in an endless debate about directory evaluation and exam days, if you're best at showing it a do in one day, or if you're best at showing it a do over a long time. There are endless debates about evaluation, and we humans are different. Some people think it's best to show it in one day, and some people think it's best to show it over a period of time. It might say something about us and the way we work. Maybe we skippers are the best people to show in one day, while those who work long-term, tough and systematic are the best to show it through, for example. a directory evaluation. The evaluation debate shows how different we are, and it shows that we should also have more roads in. What I know is that I'm kind of provoked by it is that you almost assume that if you introduce a «high school test», it becomes what the Progress Party says, that you lower your professionalism and weaken your academic skills. I disagree. If there are people who think that Sweden has lowered ambitions because they have introduced a «high school test», I don't think that's right. Now, trying out new paths, that we've made the Y way, doesn't mean we've lowered our academic expectations. That means we've made other paths in. For example, many people live. a long professional life in which they have one type of education at the bottom. Through a long professional life, they acquire knowledge that they could be allowed to test to see if they were qualified for further studies. That's what we want to try out with this proposal. You don't have to do what you do in Sweden, but you could be inspired by what you've done in Sweden to try different ways in. This is not about weakening the coordination of admissions, it's about making different paths in and about allowing you to show your knowledge in other ways, because in a professional life, people have moved so far from the initial education they had, that the thinking of the Y-way doesn't fit them either. So I think it's important to open up that institutions can have different bets on different subjects, for example. It's an illusion if someone in this room walks around and thinks that all the subjects, schools and educations around the country are dot-like, and that a subject one place is completely like the subject elsewhere. I have a social economy from Trondheim. Then everyone knows that I have a math-social economy. If you have a social economy from the University of Oslo, which looks exactly the same on the diploma, everyone knows that the emphasis on social economy at the University of Oslo is completely different from the emphasis on social economy at the University of Trondheim. That's something everyone knows. When I apply for a place where they know what social economy from a university means on a diploma, they know that there are differences. Of course it is. So we don't have to make an illusion that this isn't different. I think we should let the institutions look at greater inequality. My dream is that we should be able to have an admission to teacher studies like what they have in Finland, with equal numbers of applicants. There they also take in so many for an interview that only one third comes out at the other end. If you have a personal interview to find out if you are fit for the teaching job, the evaluations may be different from school to school. This is demanding, of course it is. But we're going to make systems for people, not for us. I'd like to take up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e916	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e919	I would have understood better if the Swedish «university test» was an alternative basis for admission to higher education and universities. But it's not. There is an alternative basis for ranking qualified applicants. Applicants for admission to higher education in Sweden must document what is known as ‘general competence’, which corresponds approximately to our general or documented real competence and any additional requirements. The Ministry of Knowledge has previously considered proposals for the introduction of a higher education admission test. The conclusion has been that such a recording test is not required today in addition to the Norwegian rules on real and Y-way competence, which complements general study competence. The introduction of an alternative uptake test in Norway will require considerable resources, both for development and for implementation. At the same time, we may risk reducing incentives for higher education efforts if such a test is established as an alternative to the results of higher education, on which our system is based. Nor can I say that I have met someone in the sector who wanted this way to copy the Swedish system. My impression is that most applicants for higher education are satisfied with common recording rules that include common recording requirements and common rules for ranking qualified applicants. It is a simple and transparent system, and universities and colleges have not proposed admission tests as a general scheme. I therefore do not consider it appropriate to introduce an alternative admission test here in the country according to the pattern of the Swedish «high school test», nor does the majority of the committee agree. The representatives Tenden and Skei Grande also propose to ask the government to propose that universities and colleges be given the freedom to make their own demands for knowledge, to place emphasis on relevant subjects and to arrange the examination or interview. Today, the scheme is that institutions themselves lay down admission rules for master’s studies and continuing education based on the Bachelor’s degree, while admission rules for primary education at universities and higher education institutions are laid down in a common regulation. Simple and predictable requirements for the admission to higher education and the ranking of qualified applicants are, in our view, a prerequisite for students in higher education to make the right choices for higher education. Over the past 20 years, the Ministry of Knowledge has stressed that both recording requirements and ranking rules should be predictable and as simple as possible. Approximate studies shall have the same recording requirements. In the past, higher education institutions themselves set admission requirements and ranking rules also in basic education, while the department provided for this for higher education. About 1990, the then rules were surveyed, and the mapping showed that there were twelve alternative recording requirements, which have now been replaced by general study competence. There were 50 different ways of adding points and 34 different terms of ranking. The principles behind the different rules were both contradictory. It was difficult for applicants to obtain overviews and advisers to give proper advice. The government has ambitions for a simpler Norway, and we may have to scrape that goal if we introduce such a bouquet of different ways of getting into higher education. In my opinion, it is difficult enough for applicants to find out what is going on in a simple system. We have many pathways into higher education and special admission requirements for some studies that require specific skills or skills in specific areas, such as: the grades in mathematics and Norwegian for teacher training and the passing of the test of admission to art training. But we have one common rule for admission to primary education at all universities and colleges, and it is based on results from secondary education. In addition, we have real competence. The information has been collected in one location. It's a system that I initially want to keep. The question of Y-ways and how to move on to higher education if you have a different type of background than general study competence will include: be a topic in the mainstreaming message of the initial training that we are to provide before Easter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e936	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e950	At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to four lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e959	First, thank the proposers for addressing professional issues and the need to improve these training programmes. Following the evaluations of the promise of knowledge, it appears that the reform has not had a particularly positive impact, particularly on the professions. It is therefore important that the Storing Message, which is presented this spring, should pay particular attention to these disciplines. We have a cross-political desire to improve the professions, and it is therefore good that the government is already doing well. All well-informed measures in primary and secondary schools provide a basis for this. Provision is made for the professional correction of the common subjects. Several municipalities have working groups and focal schools working in the field of vocational training in the various programme areas. In Oppland, for example, it is Gjøvik secondary who has this node function. In this setting, it will be pointed out that some of the educational programmes are too wide. The Centre Party agrees, but as regards the professional correction of the common subjects, we must not forget the challenges faced by many schools by bringing together students from different programme areas in the common subjects. In schools there, for example, have only one construction class of 12 students, these can be combined with students from other programme areas. For example, students from the health and social sciences can then be put together with students from the construction sector. This means that one in the same class is to be professionally employed for both health and social subjects and construction subjects at the same time. In our opinion, this is perhaps a more demanding task than professionally pursuing within the same programme area, as referred to in the setting. The proposal also calls for public authorities to increase their targets for the admission of apprentices, but it is not said what this target should be. The centre party believes that all municipalities should aim at employing two apprentices per 1000 inhabitants. We already know there are municipalities that get to this, and it's not necessarily the largest municipalities or those with the widest programme offering that can do it. There is also not necessarily an increase in apprenticeship grants, but there is absolutely a grip that should be discussed. I would like to stress that it is in the municipality's own interest to offer apprenticeships. It must be as important for the public as for the private to provide for future recruitment. Vg3 build-up is already under assessment. This offer should be limited but not removed. There may be a way to go on for some, but what we really need is more flexibility in the education system itself. The development we have seen in Vg3 implementation is, in the opinion of the Centre Party, a result of the fact that young people will have a more active, more practical and more flexible school. We've been working on that for years. Students seek to find a way of combining the theory and practice at sea in the framework of the three years of continuous entitlement to higher education available to them. We need to solve the students' needs. In order to give the students more flexibility, we believe that the students must be given the right to be added after a professional test. In any case, such an offer will not be used by all professionals. We also believe that not only the TAF is to be offered in the counties, but that several models need to be tested where one combines a profession with a general profession. We know that several counties also offer HAF, health and general subjects, and in the agricultural and food reports, the government also announced the possibility to try out NAF, nature use and general subjects. Some states are already offering this today. The Centre Party has on several occasions suggested that it is important to avoid a school system that leads young people into a social security system. One such measure is that the county councils follow the example of Uppland County and remove the requirement for continuous withdrawal of the three-year youth right within the five-year period. Many of the measures put forward by the proposers have already been initiated or under consideration. In addition, I have shown that there are several measures that need to be seen in the context in order to strengthen the professions in total. It is important for young people, schools and the labour market that we now do not do simple steps that are not seen in connection with others, just to show that something has to be done. We have to do this in a good way for the students. Therefore, the vote of the majority of the committee is that the proposals are annexed to the protocol in order to involve them in the overall process of strengthening the professions in the main communication submitted to the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e991	We in the Progress Party welcome the debate on the professional subjects. Absence in secondary education is a matter of concern to us, and when one knows that the majority of this is from professional education, it is clear that we need a review of this. I have to say that we are disappointed with the government's total statement in this debate in the consideration of this proposal. We understand that it may be problematic to accept individual proposals before the big message, but that they have not even proved willing to discuss or evaluate the various proposals that have been put forward here, testify that they have either not understood the seriousness of the current situation, or lack of respect for the desire of the other parties to improve the situation through shared ideas and discussion. The representative's proposal takes up nine proposals, and we're going for seven of these nine. We believe that these are good and feasible and will contribute to a clear improvement in today's situation. I'm going to assume that the Right is going to put forward arguments that speak for each of the proposals, and we're therefore choosing to explain why we're going to go against the two we're doing. With regard to the first proposal in the document, we agree with the need to adapt the course of study to the direction of study chosen by the student, so that teaching is perceived as interesting and relevant, but this poses practical challenges. As the representative, Wøien, there are several places where different courses of study have to be merged in order to obtain theoretical knowledge instruction. At the same time, there's also a lot of variation within the same line. Among other things: There are students who want to be anything from carnivores to pastries, waitress, cooks, etc., and then it goes without saying that a clear practical correction of the theory given here can be very difficult. That is precisely why we in the Progress Party have previously proposed a tipping of the Vg1 offer. At the same time, we are committed to raising the status of the professions. We must not look at the professional subjects as an alternative to 'theoretical weak' students, as we refer to it as, but rather let it be a career path that is equivalent to preparatory studies. Then it is important to recognise the importance of theory also in professional training courses and also not to talk about reducing theory or having a simpler theory, but rather about where the level of abstraction in theoretical knowledge education should lie. The five proposals in the document have also not been accepted, as we consider this to be a weakening of the existing offer for students. We share the concern that not all professional students are given apprenticeships, and that is why we in the Progress Party have previously proposed both to increase the apprenticeship grant and to remove the employer’s fee on apprentices, just to ensure that several of the apprentices who are qualified to do so are given apprenticeships. The goal is that all those who want it have the opportunity to do it, but the reality is now that this is not the case today. It is then important that there are alternative offers for those who do not have apprenticeship space. If we don't have it, it could lead to further increases in secondary retirement. At the same time, freedom of choice is important in the education cycle and ensuring that students who choose vocational education for the first two years are given the opportunity to take general education, just to qualify for higher education later. We know that, among other things: those who wish to work in the health sector may choose to take two years of vocational training at school and then to embark on higher education in order to become, for example: Nursing, nurturing, etc. Then we must ensure that they are not deprived of the opportunity to choose such an approach with both two years of practice and later. As I said, we are very pleased that the Right is raising this debate. Although we are receiving a big message in this area, it is important to see the need to have as broad a debate as possible on how to increase the level of implementation in the professions as well. We know, as I said, that this is where most of the dropout is, and then the main focus must also be on what changes we can make in order for more students actually to be able to complete the secondary education. We are pleased that the debate is going on, but we are disappointed with the government's announcement here. We are therefore looking forward to what the government can contribute to the debate here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1010	Does the President assume that the representative should make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1013	I will deal with those proposals where the Progress Party is a co-sponsor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1018	The representative Mette Hanekamhaug has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1021	In the 2004 debate on the Knowledge Commitment, the SV criticised the reform in order to go too far in creating a clearer distinction between vocational training and preparatory education. But the truth is that the Bondevik II government should already go further at that time in order to ensure the specific nature of the professions, and that the content of vocational training could even more reflect the labour market to which young people are to be trained. Three years ago, in January 2010, the Right presented proposals for a professional career because the challenges were in line: The drop-out remained constantly high in a number of professions, the professional organisations complained that several of the professional study programmes had become too general, the apprentices no longer put as well prepared as desirable, and many apprentices felt that the school had imposed on them a greater training burden. The need for skilled labour in society is increasing. This means that, in particular, the professions have tried to teach young people. It may, unfortunately, seem that the specialisation of studies has a higher performance than the professional path of a professional letter. The right-hand proposal is at the heart of the problem when we now — once again — propose a series of measures aimed at raising the status and performance of professionals. The right is fundamentally in disagreement with the proposal of the LO and the Ap circles to grant general study competence after vocational training, for what does such a proposal communicate to young people? Well, that the letter is not equivalent, and that it is primarily study competence that counts. If it is not considered that the requirements for study competence should be lowered, it goes without saying that this proposal will help to undermine the position of professionals rather than facilitate more professional correction and better care for the specific nature of the professions. The right-hand proposal meets both pupils and working life. More and better professional correction shall ensure that the apprentices are well prepared on the day on which they are required to apply for a contract of apprenticeship. For the Right, it is also important that vocational training is put into a new perspective, and that the vocational guidance needs to highlight possible career paths even after a professional letter. The letter may be a stoppage for a shorter or longer period of time, but it can also act as a springboard for example. technical or engineering training through a Y-road, or through new Y-roads – such as from childhood and youth workers and into kindergarten teacher training. In industry, the ‘black’ engineers are now torn apart – understandably those who have had dirt on their fingers, who have mastered and mastered it, and who are in adulthood taking engineering training. The proposal of the Minister of Knowledge to extend the supplementary year in secondary school does not flash. The right notes that many of those who end up on the ground do not do it of their own free will, but are forced to do so because of a great lack of learning places. So this is where the effort has to be put, and this is where the effort has to be stepped up. There is a lack of skilled labour, and then it must be an important objective to bring as many professionals as possible to a vocational letter by stimulating more places of learning – not by the year of completion. At this point, the Right is fully in line with the Student Organisation, which is clear that students do not demand more school and theory, but more training in the company earlier and more practical learning. But let me stress here that the Right will give skilled workers a lifelong right to build on for study competence, which was also the subject of the representative Tingelstad Wøien, and we will facilitate real-time assessment if you want to apply for higher education later. Here, too, the Right and the Student Organization are all in line. It has now been three years since the Right promoted the first proposals to strengthen the professions, and it is sad to note that one youth school goes out of the profession after another without being able to complete it into a professional letter – because the lack of professional correction seems discouraging, because there is no room for concentration on the subject of professional letters, and because thousands of apprenticeships are still lacking each harvest, which will continue to be done because the ambitions of the concluded ‘social contract’ do not meet the objectives. When the Minister of Knowledge and the Government have failed to take all the necessary steps and refer to a coming big message, it means lost opportunities for thousands of young people and is a lean comfort to all the young people who in the meantime end up as new fates in non-response statistics. For the autumn, it's a choice. It increases the potential for a rapid shift in the implementation of long-term demand for measures by students, teachers and the labour market. It is not up to believers – with all the experience we have, and with all the recordings we get – that there is a need for new flashing messages in order to make quite reasonable approaches and adjustments in vocational training. Then I'll take up the remaining suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1044	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker then addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1047	This proposal by the representatives of the Right is a rather strange proposal. One is because most of the proposals that are being promoted here are far less ambitious than the policies that the government already implements when it comes to strengthening the profession. And some of the proposals are proposals that should be promoted in the big message that comes in a few weeks, which the representatives are well aware of. The truth is that there has been little attention and so much effort around the professions in very, very many years. I also have to say that when I hear Mr Aspaker's comments, there are many significant updates in relation to making reasonable changes to the structure of secondary education that the representative Aspaker and Right have not received, and I am pleased to present a big message that can just update in this area. This is because we need many more skilled workers in the future than what is being trained today, and there are many more of the young people who start by choosing a profession, who do not complete and take a professional letter. So here we have a lot to achieve. I have signed a historic agreement with the social partners on a social contract to increase the number of apprenticeships. We have committed ourselves to working together to get 20 pst. more apprenticeship places by 2015 than we had in 2011. And we're on a very good path: already six months after signing that agreement, we have an increase of almost 700 new apprenticeship places. But we need a lot more. There is a great transition from those who start in the professional field to those who choose to build up, and the representative Aspaker is completely wrong when she believes that the main reason for this is that they do not have apprenticeship space. We need more apprenticeship places for more people to complete. One of the eye-catching research in the context of the review of the Knowledge Promise is that less than 10 pst. Of the students who choose to build, they say they're going on because they don't get a place to learn. A lot of those who are on the ground are going there because they want to study skills and admission to higher education, and this is a very important recognition when we're going to go through and see how we're going to make a good set-up for vocational training. It is now working very systematically in all states, and this has been going on for a long time – we don't need suggestions here in Stortinget to get to it. It concerns the professional correction of the common and professional professions in the field of vocational training. Node schools have been established in each state, which are resource centres just to get such a professional correction, so this work is very well going on. This is part of the effort we have in connection with the New GIV, which is an essential part of our programme to get more people to complete higher education. In addition to what I have already said about professional correction, we also have a comprehensive update of vocational teachers, considering how it is possible to get hospitated and fill up in order to work systematically to get more people to implement. There hasn't been so much about the profession in many years that it's done in recent years. I am pleased to come back to Stortinget in just a few weeks’ time and present a big message where the vocational training professions have a significant place, but the message must be based on the updated basis we now have for how this is actually implemented. There is no doubt that the counties have set up too many places of study in the field of building — almost half of those who choose to build up, cancel. Half of those leaving high school choose professional subjects, but a large part of them go to secondary school during the course. Many of them have planned to do so before taking up the profession because they want a less theoretical and more practical approach to taking study preparation. In addition, when the counties offer the supplemental year, which is the toughest year of the entire secondary education, to students who have completed a course or two on Vg1 and Vg2, and 80 pst. [[President clubs]] by which they delete
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1068	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1071	The Council of State points to the forthcoming communication for the professions. We are extremely pleased that this message is coming, precisely because we believe it is important to focus on the professions ahead. But at the same time, as I also mentioned in my speech, it is very disappointing that the government parties do not choose to discuss or contribute to the debate and discussion of some of the proposals promoted in the proposal for a representative. Whether or not there will be a big message later, we in the Progress Party believe that it is important to have a constructive debate and exchange of views between the parties, precisely in order to find the best possible solutions. My question to the Council of State is simply: why do the Government parties not want to contribute to this debate? Is it simply because it is believed that none of the opposition parties has anything constructive to contribute to this debate in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1078	It is the opposition's privilege to make proposals in the Storting on big shots that they know the government is finishing for submission, and this is just one example. I don't criticize the Right for that – I have done it myself many times when I was in opposition. I'm going to review these proposals very quickly: Point 1 is implemented much more ambitious than what the Right is doing. Point 2 is implemented much more ambitious than what the Right is doing. Point 3 is far more ambitious than ever. Point 4: Trials are ongoing in cooperation with the County of Trom. Point 5 is a structural question that we'll come back to in our big message. Point 6 is also a structural issue, which the whole Storting now knows is being treated. Point 7: This is quite possible to do today – go ahead, just hold on! Point 8 is also a matter that we've been to before. [[President clubs]] [[The President clubs.]] Point 9 about tools I think maybe I can fix locally...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1113	The President requests that the Council of State respect the measured speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1116	I note that there is no willingness here either to listen to or to engage in real discussions on the proposals put on the table. I remind the Council of State that the first time we promoted several of these proposals was in January 2010, and since then three–four have gone out of high school and have been struggling with major problems because they have not had the choices they would like to make. I also think the Council of State is now contradicting itself. On the one hand, she says that the county councils have set up too many addendum classes, and then to use as an argument against the Right's proposal that there are not so many people who choose to build, because they don't have to. So I don't fully understand the context here. But I want to challenge the Council of State on this with state apprentices. So today, the state has 800 apprentices and 145 000 employees in the state sector. Then you have to get 20 pst. more apprentices in two years, i.e. 960 apprentices. Is there a contribution to providing apprenticeship places for the 5000-8000 missing each harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1125	I am delighted to bring more clarity to the Right and the representative of Aspaker in the situation of advanced education. What I think the representative of Aspaker and the Right had stood on is to be a little bit more up-to-date about what is actually going on around School-Norway in terms of the effort and professional correction of vocational training. This is a very extensive work. I am happy to be part of it, but the job is done primarily by those who work in higher education. It is a comprehensive cooperation, based on the New GIV, in the country's own commitment and in cooperation with the labour market. We have concluded an agreement with the social partners. That's very interesting, because we have new, updated knowledge also from the Fafo about the difference between private companies that take in apprentices, and those that don't. There's a lot of people who don't take in apprentices today, who, to be confused, are similar to those who actually take in apprentices, so we have a much bigger potential. [[The President clubs.]] And, of course, the public interest must also be maintained. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1134	The President shall chair this meeting within the Rules of Procedure adopted by the Stortinget. This also applies to the State Council of Halvorsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1137	I note that the Council of State believes that 960 apprentices in the state sector are “golden good” when there are thousands of apprenticeship places missing each harvest. But I want to go back to this with professional correction. Last spring, the Education Directorate carried out a survey of county municipalities and secondary schools. It looked at how to follow up the change in regulations that came, where it was required to pursue both the common and the professional professions more professionally. A large proportion of the county municipalities and a large proportion of the schools had not complied with this regulation. The right has also proposed allowing locally awarded examinations at the other end, because according to the teachers, it means a great deal in getting real professional corrections in both the Community and the programme subjects. The question is: is there not a proposal that the Council of State believes is in place to consider as an important measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1146	In the case of apprenticeships in the state sector, my colleague, Rigmor Aasrud and I will set up a separate training office – i.e. it is done – to follow-up the work of apprentices in the country. I want to draw attention to another thing, and that is that public procurement can demand that you deal with apprentice companies, and that is also an important part of the country's ability to influence apprenticeships. So here we have full pressure all the way. With regard to vocational correction, a systematic work has now been carried out in all the counties – sponsored by the state, by the red-green government – in order to provide the professional common subjects and otherwise to help to obtain training that is not only that the students in the profession are motivated, but that they also gain the knowledge they need, which is on a more general basis. So there's an incredible amount going on here that the Right doesn't know about. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1153	I'll go into a little bit of what the council replied to the previous line, among other things. on point 7 of the proposal, that we want the government to take the initiative for more effective dissemination, and where the answer was: Yes, it is possible – let us get started! The problem is that this is not done today. That is precisely what you want us to take the initiative to do. With regard to point 8, the TAF scheme, there has been a discussion of regulatory changes that could weaken the TAF scheme and, in the worst case, would lapse, as it actually is today. Governments could rather go further into what they want for the TAF system in the future, as we know it is now under threat. With regard to item 9, the Council of State stated that this is the responsibility of the municipalities. No, first of all, it is the responsibility of the county councils. Secondly, we see that the economy of county councils is largely not good enough, and that the equipment park, as referred to here, is not good enough. Then the question becomes to the Council of State: how are these proposals to be dealt with that she so non-jealantly rejects?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1164	Point 8 of the proposal is a very clear part of the structure. Point 7: This is happening between states, and I hope that everyone can use the contacts they have with their state politicians, just to get better cooperation in this area. With regard to point 9, there were probably some students who were not allowed to use a Spike Gun, and not the other point that Hanekamhaug raised, namely that there are some challenges to the high school equipment park. But when it comes to the use of the exact nail gun, I think it's really important that professionals who are in close contact with apprentices and students use sense and understanding. The competence of the size in the case of nail guns may be slightly limited.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1174	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1177	Vocational training is a very important part of a comprehensive education policy. Good competence from secondary education greatly increases the likelihood of participation in higher education or in professional life. Demand for highly skilled skilled workers is increasing in most industries. Business today, and also in the future, has a great need for competent employees. The high dropout rate in today’s school is therefore a major problem for individual students and for society as a whole. The main challenge is the high drop-out in the profession and transition from school to apprenticeship. Here, the Right believes that a more targeted effort is required to allow far more students than today to complete the education cycle. Good access to apprenticeships is essential in the fight against apostasy. Therefore, the right has proposed to increase the apprenticeship grant of enterprises taking in new apprentices. We want more professional correction of the common subjects of professional study programmes, and we believe it is important that students who do not receive a course can be given a good alternative offer, so that they have good prerequisites for taking the course. Competitive teachers are a very important part of lifting the professions, and many different professionals possess valuable skills that they want to share with students at school. In order to improve the preparation of the pupils for the job that awaits them, it is important to reduce the barriers between working life and school. One way to do this is to recruit teachers from business. The school must be more aware of the link between skilled workers and people with a good network with businesses and businesses. In order to succeed in recruiting skilled professionals from enterprises in the community, it is also necessary to facilitate good decentralised training provision. The message is clear: one must link school education closer to the business community. Better provision is needed to enable experienced professionals to gain access to additional pedagogical skills in order to become teachers in a professional field. This was actually the message we received when the Right Party and the Advance Party, by the undersigned and Mette Hanekamhaug, visited Stranda's continuing school, where Ole Bjørn Hjellegerde, a founder with broad business experience, taught entrepreneurship. He told me that he was in the job, but that it needs to be much better arranged for those working in the business world to have the opportunity to come out and be in school as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1200	It is striking that the largest party of the Storting, the Labour Party, is not taking part in this debate. In the right, at least we're busy doing something for the professions. Unfortunately, there is too much time between each time something happens. The red-green government has, as you know, been running for almost eight years. The proposal we are debating now contains nine concrete proposals to strengthen the professions. The working party, SV and the approach angle of the centre party are waiting for a staging message. A big message is good when it comes to this field, but the professions need action first and foremost. It is clear that we are going to need more skilled labour in the future, and the basis for having enough skilled labour in the future is now being laid. We have taken this into account in the Right, and that is why we are once again promoting a proposal that we call professionalism. I wish that, when we promote such a proposal for the Storting, we would have met with something other than an arrogant attitude – I would call it – on the part of the Council of State. From this pulpit I myself have raised the question several times about the situation of boys in school today. We know that boys are overrepresented in a number of negative statistics, among other things. in the non-response statistics. It is also relevant to this debate. We know that a lot of boys are applying for a profession. Often this is in the hope of meeting a different school day than the one they had in high school. Then, by all probability, it's the opposite that happens. They meet more of the day-to-day school they had problems with in high school, in other words more theory. This is not suitable for lifting their motivation for further education. It is therefore proposed by the Right to ensure that the changes in the rules on the professional correction of the common subjects in vocational training programmes are followed up are important. We need to ensure that education is trained to a far greater extent than what is happening today, so that students get a better understanding of how the subjects they are learning are practiced in practice, and thus get more motivation to complete the education. Nor do we get away with the fact that, in order to give the professions a boost, we need to make sure that more people get apprenticeship space. Here I think the government's efforts are too weak. The councils have referred to the social contract that was signed with the social partners in the spring of 2012, but I do not believe that the contract's objectives for the admission of apprentices by state enterprises are ambitious enough. Finally, some of what I started with: this debate shows a lack of interest in professional subjects. We need to raise the status of the professions and revisit what we used to call professional pride.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1219	In fact, I had not thought that it was basically the Right that was going to have the word in this matter. I would also like to say that I do not perceive the debate we have had today as some cooperation. I think that the Council of State has dismissed the proposals from the Right with a ease that you rarely experience in this room, and I regret that. It's serious that so many students drop out of high school. It's serious when we know where the shoe prints. It's serious that in three years we don't have things to pair our legs and get more apprenticeship places when we know that there's a lot of it where we have a lot, a lot to pick up. The right has challenged the government to increase the apprentice grant. We have challenged the government to motivate and provide more apprenticeships. So we have repeatedly pointed out that the state has a great responsibility by going ahead as a good example. There are 145 000 annual works in the state sector, all over the country. Even in smaller municipalities, where you might wish you had a greater width of apprenticeship places to offer your youth, the state could be involved in creating that breadth in the supply of apprenticeships. I find that a press release was sent out, or what it was, on 24 October. It was then time to set up the State apprenticeship office. But what are you offering? Well, you're offering an apprenticeship to teach government places in Oslo and Akershus. What about the rest of the country? When should the State set up and help young people to gain access to learning places in the State sector? The only person doing the job is the Defense. The road sector does not. The hospital sector does not. The Nav sector does not. The equation sector does not. That's how I could keep listing big government units that have a lot of room to be good potential apprentices. It is easy to say that county councils need to cooperate on apprenticeship places. But it's the students that get lost when we see that it doesn't happen. There is a regional imbalance in the location of the apprenticeships and the location of the labour market. In this respect, the Right considers that national authorities should assume coordination responsibilities and ensure that systems are put in place to ensure that students become winners in the system and not lose their way in the system, as at present. Then I'd like to say finally when the Council of State raids this nail gun and says that there's no way the Storting can decide. That's not the point of the right. The point to the Right is that here the Labour Inspectorate has agreed to a ban, and we have not been able to get into a dialogue. It is clear that the school needs to provide training in the use of this type of tool. But then you have to have a reasonable dialogue that makes it impossible to deprive students of the opportunity to receive training in a tool that is perfectly normal to use in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1240	This is really a bit of a strange debate, I think. It seems that those who are proposing here are angry because the committee has not chosen to write pages up and down and comment on their proposals. Warloe says we need action. That's just the point. There are things happening all the time, and then it's not necessary to comment on this up and down. What is to be assessed is to be found in the big message that comes. The recordings that have now come from the proposers will, of course, also be assessed against such a big message. I have to say that many of the proposals that have been put forward here, I think I really don't want to comment very much – I think they are simply not good enough. I think they show – as the Council of State says – partial lack of insight into what the professions actually are. When it's talking about you being insulted because we don't have enough professional rights, it's a little weird for me. It's in order. Node schools have been introduced in all counties. They have their own working groups. Obviously, it'll be better, but it won't help if we decide again. It is the responsibility of the county councils to follow this up now. In terms of taking in labour from working life to school education: of course it is possible. We also have the Lektor 2 system, that's an option. There is a possibility of hospitation today. No one today refuses to do this to schools. In this case with apprentices, maybe it's not the apprentice grant we should think about the most. The representative Aspaker is very concerned – I think we all are – that we need to have more apprenticeships in the state sector. But we also need the jam in the municipalities, just like that. These are not the big municipalities – like Oslo, for example. – which has the largest number of apprentices per 1000 inhabitants. Of course, many of our party colleagues around do a much better job in taking in apprentices. In the case of Vg3, the Right proposes to remove Vg3 build-up. I disagree with that, I don't think it's wise to do it. The progress party agrees with the position in that respect. I think it's wise to keep Vg3, because we have to have such an offer. But then we also have to be aware of what the Council of State said in its statement: Under 10 pst. it is chosen by those who choose to build it because they have not been given apprenticeship space. It's not this that's the main reason. The main reason is that we haven't created a system that's flexible enough, a system that allows students to choose both a little theory and a little practice. The system's blocking them. We're trying to get this done within the three years they're entitled to higher education. Then they cancel – they do not have a diploma, nor do they have a study qualification. Then we have to change the system. The proposal that has been promoted here is not an answer to how we are going to change the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1255	The proposals that have been discussed here today have not been the subject of the government parties 'threw around the neck'. This is not because they are overly offensive or ambitious, it is because of the opposite. This is because the government, together with the counties, has been working for several years to provide vocational training, has worked to increase the number of apprenticeships. From 2010 to 2011, the number of apprenticeship places increased by 20 pst. We are now in the process of re-acceleration until 2015. There has not been such a systematic job in many years to increase efforts and attention to the professions. That is the main problem with the proposals made by the Right. It is relatively rare to find in the Storting that the opposition promotes in an area that is less ambitious than the government itself implements. That is the case for the first proposals here. As far as structure is concerned, I have to say that I am delighted to present the message that gives us new, up-to-date and systematized knowledge about the implementation of higher education. Almost a quarter of those leaving high school have opted for completion. Half of these students cancel out. What we see very clearly is that high school students have tried to make a kind of a third path, where they want both to gain study competence and to get more practical training. Then it's not just useful to patch a little bit around here and there in what's the structure – we have to go through and look very clearly at how we can get a better run between professional/practical training and getting a study qualification. This is one of the very exciting issues that we come back to in the message. The whole Stortinget knows that we have been working on this for a very long time – which was also the case rapporteur. But there's nothing we do in a vacuum, we do it in close dialogue and discussion with the different industries and industries. Some of the things that have been the challenge here is that the letter and the letter are quite different, and that we have to think a little bit more tailor-made around them as well. I am happy to come back and update the Storting regarding the knowledge base that is necessary to take the discussion about what is a sensible way forward for, among other things. higher education and for the professions. It's interesting research that should be at the bottom when we're discussing a new structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1270	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1273	Eighteen proposals have been put forward on the right – nine proposals three years ago and nine new proposals last autumn. I find that no matter what the Council of State says here today, the student organisation is as impatient as the Right to see results. It's possible you talk a lot and think a lot, but it's about the famous implementation ability. No matter how often you say you cooperate with the county councils, it's the actual results out there that count. The feedback from the industries and from the students is that you don’t get it done – you don’t manage as well with your professional correction as you should. The last thing I'm going to say is Vg3 addition. Vocational education must lead to a letter of formal education, or rivers must start to specialise in studies — if that is what they have thought. That is why the Right proposes a two-year run of theory and practice, so that students who do not receive a course can also take a letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1280	I just want to have a little comment at the end. It does not help if you have 18 proposals, 40 proposals, 90 proposals or 1 proposal – if the proposals are bad. It doesn't help. That's the exact same thing as saying, either it doesn't help to have 50 hours in high school math if those 50 hours have a bad content. I'm burning for the trades. I'm very concerned that the professions are going to be the best possible, but I now heard the representative Aspaker say: you are going to be a tradesman, you are going to choose a purely professional line when you're 16, or you are going to choose specialization. That's not what the youth wants today. Today, young people want the opportunity to take a professional career and become an engineer. That's what we encourage when we talk about the y-direction, and so on. Then I don't understand why we're going to have a system that facilitates that we can't get through the students who want it. That's what this big message is going to grab hold of, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1289	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1305	First, I have to say that I was wondering if I should draw on the list of speakers in the previous case when it was about competence in nail guns – it might be bigger in the hall than the council is aware of, both in good and bad. Now we're going to turn to another topic, where at least the signed competence is empty, but it's an exciting debate. I am pleased with this opportunity to raise a debate on the content of nursing training. Of course, I am not as pleased with the background that I am now raising this debate, namely the NIFU report and the press headlines in the autumn that point to major challenges with differences in the knowledge base of the nursing students both in the course of the studies and after completed studies. When such statements reach us, it's important that we take it seriously. I have to start by stating that I am very pleased with all those who choose to take a training course in health care. This is the labour force we need, and let me say that we appreciate the many good teachers who daily make an effort to train new, good nurses, and all the students who work hard to become skilled employees in our health care. It is vital for a good health service that citizens are safe and confident about the help they receive, and it is our task as politicians to facilitate such trust. The challenge, however, is given to us through the feedback we have received through the report. First, I want to address the need for a common platform in view of the basic skills that nurses should have. We're talking about basic skills in primary school, and in this profession, we quickly see that it's the same skills that are needed. I myself knew the uncertainty gripping me, despite good health experience, as we could read about all the students who were in the course of the study did not do the task of calculating the dosage of medicine. In a profession that, brutally enough, has no special room for testing and failure, it goes without saying that basic skills have to be based, and that skills have to be put in place in such a way that everyone knows that no matter where you have taken your education, you can quickly and correctly calculate how patients are to be medicated. The nurses’ association believes that a character requirement in math, English and Norwegian in 3 or better needs to be put in place. In our opinion, we need to take this seriously and put in place clear admission requirements that ensure the basis for proper solutions to theoretical tasks in the profession. Another clear feedback in the NIFU report is that there are considerable differences in the practical adaptation of teaching. This points primarily to the lack of follow-up system for nurse training. The need to maintain their own experience of practice and to gain experience in new tools and treatment methods is essential in order to provide students with good help and security in carrying out their tasks. Good arrangements for updating professional staff who teach seem to be a major challenge, and in this respect the report must be a clear reminder to educational institutions to take this seriously and to put in place better solutions. Nursing is not the only education that points to an increasing number of students seeking help from the same number of professional staff. The scope for action in the sector has been reduced, and this obviously affects the quality of the study. Our desire to maintain a well-being offer and a high-quality healthcare system must be followed up with the necessary resources to ensure the quality of study in health education. Very different application bases at the 28 different training places, and thus varying thresholds for admission to the nursing study, in combination with varying practical adaptations and varying access to professional staff during the studies, therefore clearly create differences in the knowledge base and skills of the graduates. The last point I want to follow up is what this can lead to for those who have taken the studies. When professional managers with employment responsibilities in health institutions in the East clearly report that students from some schools are not assessed by employment, it shows that these students have been kept for fools. No one has told them that it will be difficult to get a job, in a profession there is a great need, because they chose the wrong place to teach. Of course it shouldn't be like that. It can't go on like that. Several actors need to contribute to improving this situation, and several measures need to be taken. There's something that the colleges can grab. The responsibility for updating their own employees is their responsibility, and they need to find good solutions to this problem together with health services in their region. The action space for the apprenticeships needs to be improved. This is done in the annual allocations in the budget, in letters of allocation and in the allocation of study places. The government must take this seriously both in the revised budget and in the next budgetary procedure. The basic knowledge of the candidates starting the studies needs to be built up through a series of actions throughout the course of Norwegian education, and character requirements must be one of these measures. In the interview provided to the knowledge minister, I have particularly taken a step in which to build confidence in nursing training, and not least to give all those who complete the studies the same opportunity for jobs in the sector. There is a need to provide evidence that competence is in place, at the same level, among the candidates from the various universities. The nurses’ association has called for a national test at the end of the study in order to document this. We think that in the Right is a good idea. Such a test may be used to confirm the necessary knowledge and may be used in conjunction with a test in areas which individual training places will document beyond this minimum. Where such a test can demonstrate that basic knowledge is in place and candidates are safe from the tasks they are required to perform in everyday life, it should be possible to do so on the basis of the fact that all are relevant applicants for health services. I therefore call on the Council of State today to take the initiative for such a test and exam solution, and hope she will follow it up. I need to finish with something that I started with: We have a lot of good health professionals today. They're making a formidable effort in a hectic everyday life. I think that's an experience most of us have. My commitment on the basis of the NIFU report and headlines in the media is that we should still feel it this way, and that it should be attractive and good to have work in the healthcare community. In this way, we can ensure the necessary recruitment for the profession. We have a common interest in that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1341	It is an important and interesting problem that Svein Harberg travels in this interview. Based on nurse training, we might also be able to raise some slightly more fundamental debates about how to manage higher education. I hope I can get this far in the post – if not, we have a chance later. I am, of course, familiar with that report from NIFU as it is, among other things. refer to here, which highlights different aspects affecting the quality of nursing training. The study covers, inter alia: recording requirements, assessment methods and quality of nursing training and concludes that possible differences in quality and differences in requirements for the students may be concealed. However, there are no very clear answers as to whether this is the case or not. Universities and colleges are responsible for the quality of education and candidates achieve the expected learning outcomes. Universities and higher education institutions have quality assurance systems to identify quality deviations and problems and to ensure that they are corrected. As is known, the quality assurance systems are accredited by the supervisory body NOCUT. Now some efforts are being made to develop the supervision of higher education in order to become more effective and targeted. The responsibility for the quality of education also implies that universities and colleges have professional powers to choose how they will organise the education and a responsibility to assess the forms of learning and the number of teachers per student. This means that there will be differences between institutions. Variations do not necessarily give rise to concern. The study from NIFU also points to a trend of lower characteristics in admission to nurse training. This is part of a general trend for many vocational training courses. The reason for this is stated in the survey that the recording figures have increased more than the number of first-choice applicants in recent years. On the government side, it has been a deliberate strategy to increase the number of places of study to meet the needs of society, not least health care. However, this does not mean that the quality of nursing training is to be reduced. Look-ups in the media, such as a high percentage in disease education at the Oslo and Akershus College last week, are to be taken seriously and lead the educational institution to carry out a thorough analysis of the educational system in order to identify what may be the cause and action that needs to be taken to prevent the same happening again. This is an important part of quality assurance work carried out by educational institutions. In addition, concerns have been expressed by several teams about the percentage of drug withdrawals on several occasions. In response to this, the Right Party and the Advance Party have proposed to strengthen the requirements for admission to nurse training. In this case, there will be dramatic consequences for admission to nurse training at individual training institutions in the districts, and in particular that we will have problems recruiting nurses in many district municipalities. However, when students have come in, very high demands are made. On the medication bill, they have to have 100 pst. right to pass. Lack of mathematics is a significant national challenge, which is not so easy to solve with some simple character requirements in mathematics. That is why I have put in place measures to enhance the competence of mathematics in primary and secondary education. Fortunately, we now have very positive results from international comparisons in recent years, which means that we are now working very well around School-Norway to increase our competence in mathematics. The NIFU report also mentions the absence of nursing training. I think we have little cause for concern here. Absence is significantly lower than in most other studies and lower than in the other professional training courses. And we have to bear in mind that there are some people who choose different professional educations that really don't belong there, so a certain disqualification is healthy to have. The report asks whether differences between apprenticeships may mask differences in quality and whether the national standard described in the framework plan for nursing training is not sufficiently met. The follow-up for the Report. St. 13 for 2011–2012, Education for Welfare, as the Stortinge were treated in ours, I believe that I become very important in the light of this question. The perspective of the Communication is how education should respond to the needs of welfare services in the future. The communication gives clear signals about the government's preferred direction for the further development of health and social education and research, including nursing training. My starting point is that education should be of high quality and based on research and experience-based knowledge. I would like to pay particular attention to some important measures in the communication relating to nursing training. The Ministry, in cooperation with relevant sectoral ministries, shall examine the framework conditions for practical studies and implement a project to develop the quality of practical studies. As half of nurse training is practical studies, this will be a very important measure. Work shall also be undertaken to develop a common content for all basic education and training courses in the field of health and social education and training, which shall contribute to strengthening cooperation between the various professions. Several measures have been taken to strengthen professional research. The Communication also introduced a system of competence requirements. This implies that health and welfare services need to assess the skills needs of their own sector and communicate them to educational institutions. The point is that health and welfare services need to understand their own skills needs and address them directly with universities and colleges without going through the Ministry of Knowledge. A system for setting skills requirements will help to enhance the quality and relevance of nursing training. Councils for cooperation with the labour market, which all higher education institutions must have in place, are also a suitable venue for discussing such issues. The representative Harberg asked if I would like to take the initiative to conduct a final exam for nursing education. I would like to say that the educational institutions have opportunities within the framework plan to develop a profile of nursing training, among others. in dialogue with the labour market. This creates a diversity that we need. Therefore, we will have a challenge with a complete final exam, which will not necessarily guarantee the common basic competence requirements of the candidates, nor will it be able to address the variation that it is desirable to have. The Qualification Framework describes the learning outcomes for all candidates who have completed the nursing training after the training. The work of educational institutions on learning outcomes will focus more on whether the candidate is well prepared to work as a nurse. The learning outcomes for nursing training are complex and will require continuous follow-up and assessment of the students throughout the course to ensure that the final qualification is met. A single examination may not cover the entire learning outcomes of a nurse. The learning outcomes, which now all education has defined, are very important to follow throughout the training process. But I believe that in some areas, such as within medication billing, there shall be a common standard. So I'm going to be open to assess a national medical examination if it turns out to be necessary. I have initiated a Nordic comparative study to analyse the learning outcomes of selected welfare education to describe similarities and inequalities across the Nordic countries. This study will be an important contribution to our efforts to develop the quality of nursing training. Finally, I have to say that we have now started the long-term transformation of health and social education in line with the Stortinget treatment of Meld. St. 13, Welfare Education. But to me, this is also an important debate in the slightly wider context of how to increase the quality of all higher education institutions. That's why this was an important topic at the last contact committee meeting with the sector – I think I saw the representative Harberg there too – and something that I myself was concerned about and that I experienced had broad support across the sector. It is now ten years since the introduction of the Quality Reform. We need to sum up how far we've come, and what we consider to be the definition of what is good quality in education. We're going to set up a system for regular evaluations of education programmes and define quality indicators. NOKUT has been commissioned to conduct an annual student survey. It will come for the first time in the winter of 2013/2014. So we're doing a broader review than this interpellation is starting from.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1377	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. It's obvious that we have some common concerns. That is, as the Council of State said, not all of this report provides clear answers – that is correct. But there's reason for concern when the nurses' union clearly says it's a challenge. There are several parameters that show that there are too many differences between places of education, says the head of the Nursing Association, Eli Gunhild City. It's a concrete feedback from those who work on it, and we're going to take it seriously. As I mentioned, the most scary of all is perhaps when the nurse at the Glitra Clinic says clearly that there are students from some institutions who are not assessed when they are going to hire people. Then we've bombed in some way. Then I think it is very nice that the Council of State discusses this with dialogue between the users of the competence, in this case the health services and educational institutions, for the development of the offer, and that it must be both the further development of the teachers who are to teach in this, and the offer given to the students. For the right, it is important that this debate is about ensuring a minimum. I was a little unsure whether we had the same idea about it, because such a common test must only be used to confirm a minimum. It must not restrict the individual institution's ability to diversity and its freedom to increase its competence beyond this minimum. However, the safety of both employment and health care users needs to be well documented. Then I fully agree – as far as we have been in previous discussions today – that this can well be a principleal debate involving more education. This balance between ensuring that skills are in place at the same time as creating diversity and adapting to the needs of business while at the same time educating for the future is a balance that will be a challenge all the time. But, as I said, the minimum competence we have to somehow ensure, and I perceive that the Council of State was willing to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1390	I think the representative Harberg actually describes in a very good way the balance that should be in higher education institutions. It must always be a ‘drive’ to ensure as high a level of competence and quality in education as possible – it must be constantly excited and wanted to improve. At the same time, in close dialogue with – in this case – hospitals and, in particular, the municipalities, they must ensure that they are relevant to education and are able to discuss what is relevant. At the same time, one must also be able to get a good practice, which is a very large part of these courses, and ensure that there are also perceptions of the quality of education at different institutions and that they all meet professional objectives. If you imagine a common exam to cover all areas of nursing education, the dilemma is that we do not achieve that balance. If we imagine that we have a special concern about medication billing, and that it's a test where we expect nurses to have 100 pst. It may be a starting point for a better understanding of how the quality of education from one institution to another matches. I also believe that much of the work being done by some institutions now by having contact with educational institutions in other countries also contributes to the discussion of quality at each place of education, and that it is interesting. I think we must now try to raise the debate on quality in higher education in many different areas. I am absolutely sure that the representative Harberg also sees the dilemma by introducing character requirements when recording, namely that we – at least at first – will lose many applicants that we need today. And when you're through a multi-annual education cycle, you also have to look at what you can achieve through the education cycle in order for the benefits of education to become stronger, even though there may be some people who have some knowledge gaps in mathematics and real science that are an important challenge. So I'm absolutely concerned that we continue to have dialogue with the Stortinget and other things about how we're going to increase quality – not just in nursing school, but in all education.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1399	First, I have to be allowed to fix something that the Council of State said. She said that it is the Progress Party and the Right that go in order to increase the requirement to get into the study. It's completely wrong. Because that's the right and the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1404	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1409	The party of progress actually shares the concern and probably also wrote it in its comment when it comes to the matter, because we are afraid it weakens the basis for recruitment to education. On the other hand, the progress party is very much to introduce advanced courses in subjects where there are weak students. I would like to thank the representative for raising this important debate on the differences in nursing training. I would also like to make it clear that this article is not an attack on or criticism of students and teachers in education. The NIFU report reveals considerable differences between apprenticeships, and there is much evidence that there are considerable differences in quality. Among the findings is that two universities took in all those who applied, while others had recording limits that varied. Authorisation as a nurse shall ensure that the holder is well qualified to exercise the profession. When applicants from some schools are not even assessed when applying for a job, this suggests that something is serious wrong, although the NIFU report will not draw clear conclusions on this. The nurses have literally a vital job, and patients must be able to rely on caregivers to do their job. The progressing party believes that the major differences in education give cause for concern. High quality differences have dramatic consequences for patient safety. So we have to make sure that those who pass the nurse's study have learned what to do and that everyone has common basic skills. Norwegian Nursing Associations are concerned and indicate that behind the differences there may be potential differences in quality and differences in requirements for students. As a result, students from different schools come out with different backgrounds for their professional activity. It's not that easy to define what makes a nurse a nurse. Is this about specific skills, something that no one else can do? Is it about a clear identity, which makes you feel completely different from others? Or is it the education itself that is the basis for a common understanding of what it is to be a nurse? These questions are asked by the Norwegian NSF. Today we can risk that a student who goes to one place of study can do something different than one who goes to another place of study, even though both are nurses after passing the exam. In view of the wide differences identified by the report in the scope of admission, the number of students per admitted, grade, disqualification and assessment at the various higher education institutions, it must be legitimate to ask what a trained nurse really can do. The NSF points out that one of the reasons for the inequality is that schools have had a high degree of freedom of action to make their own curricula. So now the NSF wants a new debate on the content of today's bachelor's education. They sincerely want a more firm approach with a defined minimum of knowledge and skills in education. The health sector needs highly qualified nurses. We simply can't afford to have an education that raises doubts about the competence of those who have completed their education. The interpellant asks whether the Council of State will take the initiative to conduct the examination at the end of nursing training so that evidence can be provided that the students in question have learned what they should and have a common basic competence that creates security for health care and employment. The Progress Party clearly believes that such a change of examination will strengthen nursing training. And I find it strange that the Council of State suggests that if it did, it would weaken the freedom of the various institutions. However, national responsibility for basic competences need not be at the expense of the institutions if they are involved in the preparation of educational and examination tasks for the common basic competence of the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1441	It's a very important issue the interpellant addresses. We have many skilled and good nurses in the health and care sector, but they need to increase, and education needs to improve. It is serious, as the interpellant pointed out, that some educational institutions are considered so poor that newly-trained nurses are not assessed when looking for a job. Of course, it is serious for the individual nurse, and not least for those who need good care. In an SSB report, it is estimated that Norway will need 85 000 health workers by 2035, of which 28 000 must be highly qualified nurses. These figures are, of course, not exact — new ideas and new solutions may reduce the need in some areas, while in other areas there will be a need to escalate. The right has developed a plan to get more and better health and care workers. There we outlined four main objectives: to recruit more skilled employees, to increase the proportion of skilled workers and the proportion of university graduates, to retain skilled staff by providing opportunities for career and professional development, and to do things in new ways and to think new to make the best use of personnel. Competence is the key to quality in healthcare services. A report from Telemarksforskning for KS concluded that it pays off: the better educated those in the community health service are, the fewer they need. It could be a problem that can meet us pretty quickly. So much of the key is to make sure that the nursing profession is attractive, and then we have to value those who are there, invest in their skills and secure good career paths. The right has also proposed State grants for special training for nurses, which will allow more opportunities to become specialised nurses, for which there is a great need. Public services must also be a good employer, so that health and care services attract staff, retain them and reduce absences. We have also proposed a pool of skills to cater for the public sector educational groups. Being able to give a paylift to groups like nurses. We also believe it is important to ensure the quality of education with transparency as an instrument, which has been discussed by many. I myself have trained both nurse and midwife, and I know how important it is to have a good relationship between theory and practice, between school and professional practice in nursing. There must be a closer link between the place of learning and the field of practice, and there is probably one of the most important measures to reduce the distance between what nurses need and what they actually learn from education. We are facing new major challenges in healthcare. I mention the interaction reform, the national health and care plan and the new health and care laws. This poses major challenges for nursing practice, but it also opens up too many new opportunities. In recent years, education has been under intense pressure, not least because of the major changes that have taken place in healthcare and the need for more qualified nurses in both local and specialist health services. It also affects the professional content of the training. In my opinion, it is serious when the students experience that the education does not prepare them well enough for the profession they are going to meet, when we think about the demands that are made when they come out in practice and out in real life. They feel that there is insufficient consistency between what they need to learn and what they have learned from the study site. The absence of nursing training is also too high, as has been the case in several countries. Too many people don't finish. In 2010 there were two out of three nursing students who passed the compulsory examination for medical treatment at the Oslo University of Applied Sciences. It plays a role, in fact, it is important that we know how to handle medicines in order to ensure good quality and avoid abuses in health and care services. That is why we agree with the Nurses' Association and their Student Association that greater demands must be made on basic education when admission takes place. Motivation is not enough, we have to look at the content of education. We need to ensure not only enough places of study, but also enough places of practice. This is how they can develop their practical skills. Both municipalities and companies can do a better job here. But, of course, the places of practice must be qualitatively good. Nurses must not only have good basic knowledge and theoretical knowledge, they must also be good practitioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1464	The interpellant addresses important questions about the quality of nursing training. Good health workers, like nurses, are the very foundation of our health care system. Every day they meet sick people and make their day a little better. They are professional carers and skilled skilled workers. I guess the problem is that we have a little too few of them for the future. When the interpellant points out that there are differences between apprenticeships and thus wants a device with a final exam to show that the students have a common starting point when they are going to work, it seems to me that he is not just questioning the quality, but also the independence of the educational institutions. As the Minister of Knowledge refers to, there is not necessarily reason to do so. Nor is there any reason to believe that a joint final exam is the best and only solution. Educational institutions are already focusing on what awaits completion of education and on the requirements of nurses in working life. It is precisely to train safe nurses who can be in their profession, which are essential in this training, not that everyone has a joint final exam. Rather, as the Minister of Knowledge also points out, one can assess a joint examination in some specific subjects, for example: medication bill. Interpellant refers to variations in education. Variation in itself is not a problem. It can be very positive that, for example: there are different recording requirements around the country. The fact that you had a bad day at the Norwegian exam, or that you are not a runner in German, should not prevent young people from reaching their goals. That's not what the students can do when they start, but what the completed nurses can do when they finish their education, which is the central one. Nevertheless, it has to be mentioned that the Ministry of Knowledge has worked systematically to improve the basic skills of today’s students in primary school, so that they can do enough and have good enough knowledge within, among other things. math, Norwegian, English and digital skills in starting their further studies. When some educational institutions specialise in close follow-up and high teacher density, there may also be an important variation that can be very fortunate. Some students want to work independently, others need more follow-up. Then it is positive that different colleges have different advantages, so that students can make a conscious choice. In addition, there is an advantage to nurse training across the country, so that smaller colleges can have a closer follow-up and close contact with local health services. As the Minister of Knowledge also refers to, she already has a focus on quality in education, in particular welfare education, because in the future we will need far more nurses, help nurses and other professionals in the health sector. But what we in SV are also concerned about is that these people should not only get the best possible education, but that they should also get a good working life. Therefore, it is important to address the fight against involuntary part-time. Full time must become a right, and part time an opportunity. And we have to take care of a human work life where nurses don't run off to reach around everything they're going to do, but where they also have time to be caregivers and do their job in a proper and good way. The goal must be for today's nurses to become safe, qualified and competent nurses of tomorrow, because there are few things we need in the future as much as that. That's why it's our job to create a safe and predictable working life that they can live with, while at the same time we have a nurse training that enables the newly educated to do the job they're burning for. That is why I am pleased that the interpellant from the Right has just focused on quality in education, and I am not least pleased that the Minister of Knowledge has such a good and clear response to the challenges he is facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1481	Thank you for the debate and for those who took part. I must admit that I wish it had been a longer debate – not because it was going to be long, but because I expected a greater commitment. I think it's strange that the biggest party on Stortinget is absent in such a debate, but that's the way it is now. Then I was a little surprised at the last post, from Mari Lund Arnem, who thought that I doubted the quality of those who study, or those who are out of work. My whole post went on the opposite side, and I'm pointing out that there's a report, a nurse's union, and those who work at the institutions, who address this problem. That's why I bring it into the main hall. I have no personal reason to doubt the qualities, and I have no bad experiences. But those signals we have to take seriously, it's our job as big-time politicians to follow it up. Then at least it is completely misunderstood when it is said that I doubt it. Otherwise I think it was nice to get as much support from SV to the diversity that we want. That was precisely what I realized that both the Council of State and I were in – that we should not make arrangements that prevent sharpness, stronger skills building and slightly different directions at the various educational institutions. I'm a representative of Agder. There we have a university that has invested a lot in eHealth. It is clear that they should continue to be good at eHealth, and anyone taking some health education there should be good at eHealth. It's still going to be like that. But that's the minimum knowledge to do important, central tasks we're talking about. So a little comment on character requirements. Yes, many share the concern about what a doer does if one suddenly introduces character requirements for a study, for one might imagine that there will be a stay, or a gap in the recruitment. The right-hand side believes that quality has to go first. The second thing we think is that by raising the quality requirement, raising the status of the profession, and recruiting from new groups. I'm going to realize that it can be an experiment in a transition, and it can be exciting to see how one solves it. But we have to do something to increase the quality of nursing training. Unskilled are at least an unfathomablely poor alternative. The commitment in this matter was to ensure our safety and security for those who are going to hire new graduates. I feel that we've got the focus on. The second thing that was important was the student’s – I had almost said – right to be considered a good candidate when looking for a job after education. It's an important element. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1499	I want to thank you for an interesting interpellation and a nuanced and important discussion. Because there are none of these issues that have been raised here, which it is possible to adopt once and for all, and then the Storting can only go home. It's just about the balance that several of us have been into right now. We're earned to have autonomous institutions that demand themselves, and that put their honor in developing to be of very good quality. We've also earned them specializing in different areas. At the same time, we want to ensure that there is good quality for all those who are educated — in the nursing home, but also in teacher training, in engineering and other professional training, and in various studies in the university sector. In this waters we must be able to proceed wisely. In particular, if there are rumors about some institutions and candidates from some institutions, against which those institutions really have no way of defending themselves, there is a system that is not too transparent and where there is too little expression of the quality you have in different areas. I think there's only one thing to do with it: take the different considerations and the dilemmas that we have here. We have to look at whether there may be a need for central tests in some areas, or make sure that we have some definitions of quality and some quality studies where we compare institutions. It could give us a clue. I am concerned that the management of the various higher education institutions that have ambitions to be ahead of educational institutions currently has too little tools to assess the quality of their own offerings to students towards other national and international programmes. So this is a very exciting debate. So I would like to offer an unreserved apology to the Progress Party for saying that I was wrong. I didn't mean to – I'm sorry so much. Because I share the starting point of the Advancement Party, and I understand that the Advancement Party shares us, that we must have the greatest attention about what is the learning outcomes of the graduates who have passed. Here, young people come in -- they're 20, 21, 22 years old -- and many people can have complexes in some subjects, which you can actually fix during the period you're a student, or by way of an advanced course. That's what's so great about learning -- it's actually possible to learn all your life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1510	That being the case, it is no. 6 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1516	Then we go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1526	During the debate Bente Thorsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to present its own report on a reinforced maritime education following proposals by the Aasen Committee, a working group set up by the Maritime Development Foundation. [[MARUT]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1553	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to provide funds for the creation of several centres of excellence, with 20 centres by 2020’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1581	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with a stepping-up plan for the establishment of centres of excellence in several areas of education in order to increase the quality of study provision.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1601	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce alternative higher education admission test, using the Swedish ‘secondary’ test model.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose that educational institutions be given the freedom to make their own demands for knowledge, to give emphasis to relevant subjects and to organise the admission test or interview.’ Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals of the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1635	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–6, from Mette Hanekamhaug on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 7, by Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 8, by Elisabeth Aspaker, on behalf of the Right and Left proposal No. 9, from Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to wind up the Vg3 scheme in school as an alternative to apprenticeship, and to replace it with a two-year run with a combination of school and business placement for those who do not receive a course. Freedom is granted to county councils to design local alternatives to this model.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1665	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to engage in dialogue with the county councils in order to reduce the number of places of study during the Vg3 extension year, to assess admission requirements and to parallelly step up efforts to provide adequate learning places.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1680	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to ensure that the change in the regulation on the vocational correction of the common subjects in vocational education and training programmes is followed up by the schools and the school owners so that the students are given more vocational education in the common subjects.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1699	Alternatively, between the setting and the proposals No. 1–6, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to enable experienced professionals to acquire additional pedagogical skills and to train as teachers in the professional field.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in setting more ambitious targets for the admission of apprentices by public enterprises and to step up the grant to apprenticeships.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to facilitate previous re-examination of all secondary education courses throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take initiatives to improve the efficiency of the provision of apprenticeships across county boundaries.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The government is asking for incentives to offer technical and general subjects to students throughout the country [[TAF]] Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the students in professional programmes receive training in the use of relevant tools.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1743	In Case No. 6 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-22.ana.ud110e1755	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
