ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e95	Honourable co-representatives! Former mayor Karen Sogn has passed away – 82 years old. Karen Sogn was born on 28 April 1931 in Oslo. After graduating artium and secretarial courses, she worked for a number of years in the family business, before moving to Lardal in Westfold in the early 1960s. Here she combined her role as a housewife with a broad commitment to the community. Among other things, Sogn had a job in the peasantry and the maid. In addition to being part-time libraries at the local public library, she quickly became involved in local politics. In 1967 she was elected to Lardal City Council for the Right. Here she sat for three periods and was vice-president from 1975 to 1977. At the 1973 elections, Karen Sogn was elected alternate to Stortinget, and in 1977 as permanent representative from Vestfold. In the course of time at Stortinget she was given the opportunity to work on matters which she personally was very concerned about. In the Church and Education Committee, she was involved in school issues and cultural and church issues. In the Agriculture Committee she also got to work with an industry she knew from the inside. Sogn was also a member of the Right Group Board and of the Storting delegation to the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly. After leaving Stortinget in 1985, Karen Sogn continued to work on a number of the issues she had been involved in in national politics. Among other things, she was Vice-Chairman of the Adult Education Council, a member of the Board of Directors of the Norwegian Agricultural Research Council and Vice-Chairman of the County Agriculture Board of Vestfold. She also went back into the management of the Lardal Right. The most important thing, however, was the work she made for church and church life in Lardal. She was for a number of years head of the parish council and head of the Church Council in Lardal. In the memory words of Lardal Right it says that «Karen Sogn was a real lady, with good sense». It's a characteristic of everyone who had the joy of working with Karen Sogn on the Stortinget, can join with full heart. She was highly respected and well liked by both representatives and employees. We remember Karen Sogn for her work on the Stortinget and brighten the peace of her memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e110	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative of Gunvor Eldegard from 12 December until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Varare representative Are Health is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e128	Are Health is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e134	The President will propose the election of the President-in-Office of the European Parliament today. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will propose Hans Andreas Limi. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Andreas Limi is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e152	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, 10 minutes are allocated to the government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines, with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to six lines, with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e163	The budget adopted by the Stortinget today is, with some exceptions, a good budget for the knowledge sector. The budget follows in general what Mr Stoltenberg presented, a budget based on what has been our line for eight years with a red-green government: putting school ahead of tax cuts, focusing on knowledge and quality, and putting efforts into a good common school for all, where all children are seen and given the opportunity to realise their potential. The bet has given results. Although the PISA study of the 10th grade in 2012 did not give the promise that many had hoped for, we see that the students are getting more and more proficient and learning more and more. Several hours, several years' work, early work, clear learning goals and better systematic follow-up, together with learning-support tests, state aid for further training of teachers, better school building, homework and clear learning goals have produced results. Of course, we see it among the youngest students, those who have benefited most from the knowledge promise of the red-green government. We see that the ten-year-olds have a success equal to a full school year, and together with Finland now the best rains in the Nordic region in their year-olds. We're not on target, but we're on the right track, and that's why we give Norwegian teachers and students credit. Our task is to lay the groundwork for a good school to be even better. But we should never forget that it's the students, the teachers and the parents who do the main job. We must never forget to tell about the great and good job done in very many classrooms. The PISA study also shows progress in some areas. There is more serenity in classrooms, the possibility of concentrated learning is greater, a lot of students give credit for the cooperation between students and teachers, and Norwegian school is better able than the school in most other countries to balance for different social backgrounds among students. There has been broad agreement on many of the efforts in the Knowledge Lift. It started when I, as Minister of Education, dropped the Sögnen Committee in 2001. My successor extended the mandate and changed something on the composition. Luckily, the extra job that the sample was given to do in primary school from 10 to 9 years was never followed up by the Bondevik government. A whole school year less had hardly contributed to any level of knowledge. In 2004, the big message came, and with the 2006 budget, a red-green government was able to start implementing the Knowledge promise. However, there are some important differences, although perhaps in many ways now there is a broader consensus on the educational issues in school than for a long time. The most important thing is that you have to have a recognition that quality costs. In some of the budget debates here this fall, the Right Party and the Advance Party have spent a lot of time saying that there are other things than the size of the budget that count. And that's true. Organisation and the efficient use of money are important, but we also see that resources are crucial. It costs money to hire more teachers. It costs to have a school day that is attractive for young people to want as a career path. It'll cost you to expand your education by more hours. It costs to clean up school buildings and invest in ICT, or to provide adapted education to those who are struggling. In particular, it costs to provide continuing training to teachers. We national politicians therefore have a great responsibility, and it is to put children and young people's growth and education ahead of other good wishes that we must have – in front of the removal of tolls, the removal of inheritance fees or large tax cuts to those who have the most. Here the red-green parts and the right-hand and front-facing layers are separated. When the Right Party and the Advance Party use four billion more oil, we see that there is no knowledge that is put first. Overall, increased use of oil money goes to tax cuts. New efforts on knowledge are paid in full by cut in the same sector. Efforts to continue training for teachers are paid by cut in the cultural school hour. Professional bets are paid by cut in the students' food. And research is paid to drop the eleventh month of study funding. This is also evident in answers from the Ministry of Education, via finance, to the financial fraction of the Workers' Party. After first of all having calculated errors in the budgetary impact in 2015 – it is not only in the PISA study that mathematical knowledge may be a little disappointing – we finally got a corrected table that shows that the effects of the changes made in the supplementary proposition, at best in 2015 on the knowledge sector, are going to go to zero, probably a little less. So it's the reality of the change of pace that was announced in the press releases about the additional proposition. I think it's an unwise way to go. Torbjørn Røe Isaksen is the first Minister of Education – after what we have been able to figure out – who actually starts a reduction in the hours available to students. So you say yes, it's just the cultural school hour. Well – first, it’s important enough in itself, but if it was the device you disagreed with, the resources, the money, could have been used for other things. We should be open to a discussion about it. We know that so far many municipalities have spent this money on other things: increasing teacher's density, special education or other things. Now the money's gone. Then, of course, the possibility of using them also disappears. The question is, what will be the next year's bet? Now, once you have removed the cultural school lesson, once you have removed fruit and vegetables, what are the next offers to students who are going to pay for the further steps in the common goals we have, for example: to invest in continuing and continuing training of teachers? The red-green parties have a different strategy. Even without using one extra crown of oil, we're involved in many of the increases, without at the same time being involved in the cuts. We are involved in strengthening the professions, as we have been doing for many years in government. We're in on increased bets against bullying. We are involved in more money for the science centres, and we are united – the entire committee – in continuing to step up State aid for the further training of teachers. It was the red-green government that introduced such a solid contribution from the state to further training for teachers that the Workers' Party opted for that effort to be doubled during the current period. When the government in its supplementary proposition increases this, it's good, and we're in. But I have a piece of advice, I think, to all of us – not least to the Minister of Knowledge – and it is to recognize that it is neither the Right Party nor the Workers' Party, nor anyone else here in the Chamber, who has invented further training of teachers. That's what the school owners have been doing for years. What we have introduced is an ear-marked state grant for further training for teachers. At the end of the day, however, it is the school owner’s economy – it is the municipalities and county municipalities that employ teachers, who provide temporary workers and who facilitate further education – that will be crucial. That is why the fundamental choice is: how well do we finance the basic wall in the school sector, namely the municipalities and county councils that own the schools? Higher education and research have seen strong growth under the red-green government, a much stronger growth than the budget as a whole. That's right. We don't live by being the cheapest, we live by being the smartest. I think we have a lot to pick up on increasing the commercialization of the research we're doing, making sure that business-academia contacts get stronger, make the candidates get faster through, and make sure that we focus on the research environments that are world-class. I am happy to work closely with the sector in these areas in the years to come. The problem, however, is that the majority, together with the students, do not provide for the eleventh month of study. We have very good quotations from, among other things, The party's Tord Lien, who says that this is self-financing, because investing in study funding, increases the level of implementation, which is left with the money. It is a pity then, when Tord Lien and the Progress Party finally joined the government, that this is adding to the long list as enough a breach of promise from the Progress Party. We are also largely in agreement with the church budget. The reform of education, which was adopted by the Bondevik government, but which is once again implemented by the red-green government – we are the ones who have provided so to speak every single penny of the budgets we have submitted – is now on target. And then we might have slightly different opinions about what this goal is, but it's a huge bet. Finally, let me thank the Committee on Good Cooperation and the Committee Secretary for an excellent work. I look forward to a good debate on an important budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e201	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e204	In order to succeed in maintaining our welfare society, we depend on strengthening our competitiveness by developing a knowledge-based business. In this budget, research investment is increased by nearly 0.5 billion. kr in relation to the original proposal of the Stoltenberg Government. For me, it is a paradox that the outgoing government has not used the economic space to prioritise research higher. Public consumption has increased sharply, while oil money has not been used as a precondition for action: investment in infrastructure, research and development and growth-promoting tax relief. When Stoltenberg announced an increase in the research effort in January 2013, it stated in the Newspaper: ‘In 2007 the red-greens took a ‘sleeve cutting’ in the research appropriations, according to former Minister of Knowledge Djupedal [[SV]] So my challenge to Giske is: Is the representative satisfied with the Workers' Party's research policy after this sentence from the Newspaper?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e218	I don't think I'll ever be satisfied. I think we're going to work every day to increase both the investment in research and higher education, and not least the link between the sector and all the other social sectors that benefit from it. But as I said in my main post, the research budgets in Norway have grown much faster than the other budget. We are about 1 pst., which is the goal of public research, while private research is slowing down as compared to many other countries with which we compete. Now I don't have these numbers completely in my head, but nominally, the research budget is almost doubled. Actually, I think it's increased by over 30 pst. under the red-green government. And then you add it after the government change. But it's probably barely a penny of every tenkronage of oil money going to research, so to the extent that oil money is used incorrectly, the increased use of oil money from the new government in its entirety is channelled against tax cuts, and not against education and research.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e227	As the representative Geske said, the results of the PISA survey came last week in 2012. Those results were not very uplifting, especially in the field of science, and especially in mathematics – the real subjects. The representative Giske and several other representatives from the Workers' Party have in the election campaign and on occasions before and after travelling around and said that Norwegian students do the best in math, and that we have the greatest success among all countries. The new PISA results, on the other hand, are being taken with a shattering calmness, because it is now called that the Knowledge Promise has not turned on completely – and that can be very good. But then I think it is time to ask questions about the promise of knowledge had turned into the results to which it was referred in the campaign, and which it was boasted about. What, then, has changed? Why aren't the results better now, after eight years of red-green control?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e234	When looking at these studies, it is important to be aware of what is being measured. The students measured in the PISA survey started at school in 2002, the first year Clemet was Minister of Education. They were already in the fifth grade, halfway in primary school, the year we started the implementation of the Knowledge promise, in 2006, and they were examined in the 10th grade in 2012. It is clear that they have not been given the increased hours, for example: in math, at the dorm, because this came after they had finished the dorm. They have not been taught by a single teacher who has passed through the teacher's school after the new and more pointed teacher training, so many of these measures have not been effective for these children. On the other hand, we see that for those who are the youngest, the 10 year olds who were measured in 2011 and 2012, we are moving strongly forward. It is a bit funny that the Right – especially – was to take credit for the students who started in 2007, but not for those who started in 2002. I think we're gonna have to take a joint responsibility for all our kids, and then we're gonna have to make sure they do it even better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e241	High school dropout is one of the biggest challenges in Norwegian school today. There are too many people who do not complete secondary education. In the evening post today we can read that there are also great variations between the counties both in terms of professional performance and non-response. I would like to take the opportunity to praise the New GIV initiative. Through this, the red-green government showed a willingness to do something about this problem, but the results have unfortunately been absent. The goal was to increase the implementation rate from 69 pst. to 75 pst. by 2015. In recent years the arrows have been pointing in the wrong direction, and today the implementation rate is 69.3 pst. I would like to know if the representative Giske has made some reflections about what has gone wrong. Why has this project not worked after the intention, and what should be done differently?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e250	I am pleased with the question and share the representative's view on how important it is to do something about the high school dropout. I think a better primary school also helps in high school. I think a lot of the problems that students experience in high school start at primary school – already in childhood and definitely in childhood. Strengthening the teaching there will help many. I think, and it's gone a little unattended, that what the Storting is doing now together, namely introducing an opportunity to take general education after completion of vocational training, is going to work. We have the greatest disqualification for those who start a professional course and jump into a general continuance year in the middle of vocational training. A great many of them should rather complete a vocational training course. I think they're going to discover that they don't need that general year, but they can bet on a professional career. That's some of the things I think work. Then we need to continue our efforts to raise the status of professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e257	We've been in the left for a long time that we have to red tape the teacher's role and let the teacher have time to be a teacher. I also understand that the Labour Party and the representative Giske say the same thing as the Left. It is even on the Workers' Party's webpages during school action in the future. The feedback we get from teachers is that bureaucracy has increased in recent years under the red-green government. What I want to ask the representative about is what he sees us doing about concrete measures to red tape the teacher’s role – which has not been achieved in the last eight years when the Workers’ Party has been in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e265	Firstly, many forms to be completed have been removed under our government. But I agree that there is still too much bureaucracy. One thing we can do is build good support functions around the teacher. The effort contained in our proposal for a State budget, for example. The school health service is just such a system that relieves the teacher and allows the teacher to be a teacher. Secondly, I think we should be the good guys when we introduce new tests – whether they are learning-supporting, measuring or what they are. This takes a lot of time from teaching. We have to be the reason for documentation requirements. We're going to be very clear, and I'm glad that the Left Party and the Workers' Party agree to say no to grades in high school. It would be a new bureaucrat. I also think we should work closely with the local government sector, because I believe that part of the bureaucracy that teachers experience comes from the local level – from local government and school administration, which also needs documentation and papers, but which then imposes more documentary burden on teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e274	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e277	When I was a kid, I was going to be a teacher. For me, it was a dream for many years, and through the studies, I acquired full teaching skills in real-life higher education. To me, there were coincidences that didn't make me a teacher, but it's no coincidence that I'm now committed to strengthening the school by just investing in the teaching profession. It is also not accidental that I get involved in the Right. Right went to the choice of realising the knowledge society, and in this budget we see a clear turn in the right direction for increased investment in knowledge. School is one of the most important institutions in society, and a good teacher is the most important single factor and one that matters most to the quality of school. The red-green government did not regain the confidence of the voters in the fall’s growing choice. It may have fallen red-green politicians heavy on the chest. One of the reasons for the elections may have been that the voters no longer had confidence in the government’s knowledge policy. Eight years of red-green governance leave behind measures such as proposals for the legalisation of cultural school hours, centralized child-care facilities and earmarked funds for fruit and vegetables. The right priority is to use the forces of targeted action for teachers. The knowledge gap, which was rolled out in 2006, gave a new one at school, improved somewhat, but the efficiency over time has been too poor. The recent results of PISA 2012 show that Norway has major challenges, especially in math and real science. It is particularly worrying that the results in mathematics have been reduced and that the location is worse than in 2009. Therefore, it is good that the government will now turn the school through a large-scale effort on the most important thing for learning, namely the teacher. The government will create new career paths for Norwegian teachers, so that the best teachers remain in the classroom. We want to increase the performance and strengthen teacher training, so that the best students apply to this profession. In the 2014 state budget, we give special priority to continuing education in mathematics and natural sciences. It's good when we know that we have a problem with the real subjects. The government’s draft budget for 2014 provides students with more annual support of 3.65 pst., or NOK 3 450. The government will bet on the students, they are important for the future, and they can look forward to better times with a blue government. The last time students had a real increase in student support was in 2002, where aid increased by NOK 10 500. Eight years in the Ministry of Knowledge has been no boost to research policy, and although the Workers' Party boasts of its own efforts, those who have been involved in research policy know that it is necessary to invest more targetedly and far heavier than what we have seen in recent years. Public consumption in general has grown enormously, and only two out of ten oil crowns have been used for what was the premise when the rule of action was established, namely investment in the future – investment in infrastructure, research and development and growth-promoting taxes. Many countries invest more than twice as much annually as Norway in research as a share of GDP, and have world-class educational institutions that train an annual surplus of highly educated relevant labour. The government's increase in research investment, increased freedom for institutions through increased basic appropriations and a binding long-term policy is a major step in the right direction. For me, it is also important to stress that the government believes that freedom of religion and belief is a fundamental human right and a prerequisite for a free society. The anchoring of the government will lie in the Christian and humanistic cultural heritage. The government emphasises that the Norwegian Church is of great importance to many Nordics, and will pursue a policy that ensures that the Church maintains the status of a people's church for all. I would particularly like to highlight increased appropriations for the pastoral service and the Seaman's Church. Finally, I would like to say a few words about Oslo. At the latest in the evening post today, we can read that the Oslo School is doing the best in the country. In Oslo, for many years, we have been working hard on monitoring and transparency on how the school performs. We have put in place targeted actions for better learning for all. In Oslo, fewer students belong to them with the lowest professional level than on a national basis, and the drop-out is lower than in the rest of the country. In addition, we know that children with low-skilled parents do better in Oslo than in the rest of the country. It shows that the Higher Education Policy, as practiced in Oslo, not only creates the best results, but also contributes to the creation of social mobility. A clear and clear prioritisation of knowledge in the 2014 budget shows that the government is serious when it says that the knowledge nation is now to be realised. Concrete growth in student funding — in addition to enhanced teacher training — and increased investment in research and innovation are good news for all those who are committed to strengthening our competitiveness in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e311	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e314	There is a broad consensus on research, but the objective of 3 pst. of gross domestic product for research, however, we are far from it. Our neighbouring country has reached the 3pst. goal, while we are on more than 1pst. If you look at the numbers more closely, they are due, among other things, to: research in the oil and gas industry is excluded – Statoil does not count. But Nokia's counting, Volvo's counting, Ericsson's counting, and they're delivering the main share of business research in our neighboring country. We don't have any such research locomotives. Right, this means the level of 3 pst. shall be fixed by 2030. In the setting of the research notification, it proposes, inter alia: And you also have to make a plan for this. My question is therefore: What are the cards in the right sleeve that will revolutionize business research in Norway to be close to the 3pst target, and when will we see such a plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e323	Right has sky-high ambitions on behalf of the nation, and we have sky-high ambitions to realize the knowledge society. Then it demands that we research more intensively than we do now. The plans will be aimed at targeting research efforts in such a way that we also ensure that we stimulate the development of a knowledge-based business. We already see in this budget that the government has strengthened, for example. user-driven programmes through the Research Council, precisely in order to stimulate business to research more. We will also create excellent university environments, which we know are the basis for the development of a knowledge-based business, and the government will return to the United Kingdom with a long-term research plan – they have said that. So the government has high ambitions and wants to do a series of actions to strengthen the knowledge nation through a more powerful and focused effort on research.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e330	The representative Vinje says she has high ambitions on behalf of realising a knowledge-based society. What amazes me a little bit is that one then cuts in the research of food and food production, where one had ambitions. I wonder if this is how agriculture should not be included as part of the knowledge-based business in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e335	In that case, the representative may have misunderstood, for it is also necessary to invest in knowledge in order to develop sustainable agriculture in the future. I have understood to the Minister of Agriculture that there are major plans to put more emphasis on knowledge in order to create a better nutrient base in agriculture. So it's absolute that agriculture is also part of the knowledge-based society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e340	I have understood the budget in such a way that the new places devoted to continuing education and training for teachers are planned to go to the subjects of mathematics and natural sciences. In the Left, we have long argued that all teachers must have a duty and a right to further education, because the formal competence of the teacher is important in all subjects, and all students need a breadth in what they are taught, in what they are given the skills and in what they feel mastery in. My question to the representative is: Does she agree that the teacher's formal competence is important in all subjects, not just in math and natural sciences, and that students are whole people who need learning and mastering in a wide range of areas, not just math and science?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e347	I fully agree that all teachers should, of course, strengthen their skills in order to do a good job in school, and that is what I said in my article. The basis for empowerment is a strategy and it supports the government. But this draft budget has strengthened further education for teachers in particular, at the top of what is already there, and some of it is given greater priority to just mathematics and the real subjects. It's because you see – most recently in the PISA results – that we actually have a real subject problem. So the government wants to prioritize it for a period of time, but in addition, there's a great deal at the bottom of it that applies to all teachers. I fully agree that the teacher is a very important factor, that's the most important factor in success in school. Therefore, it is important to focus on competence for all teachers. But I'm also very pleased that you actually manage to give extra priority to what we need most now, that's real science.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e356	When the PISA results were recently published, the Minister and representatives from the Right made it a big point that this proved that better teachers were more important than fruit and green – as if there were something in the PISA report on fruit and green. Research in Norway shows that food at the school and fruit and green have positive results for learning. The same is true of the cultural sculety. My question to the representative is: How does Right address knowledge in the field of knowledge when it turns out that something has meaning for learning? Is that important? Would it mean something for the party if it now proves massive that fruit and green have a good meaning for learning and support the learning that the teachers are working with? Will the Right consider again introducing fruit and green into the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e364	I don't doubt that fruit and green are positive for learning. It's probably very positive. This is about what you want to give the most priority, and what we know about knowledge, is that a good teacher is definitely the very best thing you can do to give the students to ensure good learning. Policy is about prioritising, and therefore the government prioritises targeted measures to strengthen the teacher rather than providing free supplies of fruit and greenery. It's easy for parents to contribute fruit and green; it's not that easy for parents to contribute with good teachers. I'm pleased that we prioritise as we do. But if we had watered in money, you could of course also prioritize fruit and green. It's a positive thing. But in the sign of priority, it's strengthening the teachers that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e371	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e374	The Committee has had a short period of time in its budgetary work, and I would first like to thank you for good cooperation, which has enabled us to achieve good budgetary objectives. The right-wing Party government is betting on school and education, thus facilitating the development and growth of the welfare society of today and the future. "Education is the cheap defense of nations," said Edmund Burke – and with this government's offensive commitment to education, we are building a good defence for future generations in Norway. Norway is a high-cost country and in a global context, we cannot compete on price, but on quality and smart ways to work. The government aims to create a robust and diverse business and to make the Norwegian economy less oil dependent. Human capital is Norway's largest resource and accounts for about half of it. 80 pst. of our national wealth. We need to exploit this resource even better and put human capital into more valuable innovation. Bill Gates has said: I believe in innovation, and the way you get innovation is by investing in research and learning basic knowledge. This government is doing just that; it is clearly giving priority to basic knowledge and real science, and research is increasing by nearly half a billion dollars in relation to the budget of the Stoltenberg government. In order for us to make the best possible use of our greatest wealth, we need a good education offer at all levels – from kindergarten and primary school to adult education. Norway, as a knowledge society, is fully dependent on students from primary school to acquire knowledge to master the challenges they face in vocational education, study and working life. Last week the PISA study was presented. There we keep some reading skills, but unfortunately the students are making things worse in math and natural sciences, and we are thus at the level of what was called the PISA-shock year. This is not good enough. I want to say it so strongly that the value creation that we depend on stands and falls on real science. We're taking the PlSA results seriously. What PISA measures is the level of knowledge in mathematics, science and reading, and Norwegian students score poorly. Norwegian students are roughly on the OECD average in science and mathematics, and scores lower in mathematics now than ten years ago. These results are not proportionate to the use of resources. The evening post recently wrote on the front page: ‘After 10 years, 66 per cent more expensive school and 43 measures, the results of PlSA remain medium-sized.’ This underlines the need for a comprehensive real-time response and must be met in an offensive manner. We must have the will to put the most important thing first – that is what is to be given priority. For this government, real science is fortunately a priority area, which clearly bears the mark of the budget. The Progress Party has great ambitions on behalf of the students and is proud that the government parties, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, promote a budget that contains a lot of concrete proposals that will make the school better and that are fully funded. Aristotle said that the foremost characteristic of having real knowledge is the ability to learn away. It is important for this government to facilitate the real knowledge of teachers. In the government’s teacher’s vow, continuing training is increased by 300 million. kr, which will allow 750 more teachers to improve their skills than the budget of the Stoltenberg government provided. Several have pointed out that many teachers who teach math and science do not have the necessary professional immersion in the subjects. That is why we give priority to continuing training in these subjects. Real science bets take place on a broad front. We are pleased that the government is clear, offensive and practical in its efforts to bring real science up to a level that the world's richest country can be familiar with: continuing education will pay particular attention to teachers in mathematics and the natural sciences; the good teachers will be even better; an offensive real science strategy will be developed; the national centres in real science will receive increased funding and we will receive a strengthening of science centres. The virtual mathematics school and the ability to take higher education courses will also be central. Closer contact with industry will be developed through the National Forum for Real Science, and we will receive a strengthening of professional requirements for teachers in school from 2014. In addition, there will be an increase in the number of doctoral degrees in real science and a notable increase in business-related research. Among a lot of good measures to strengthen the school and the teachers, I would also like to mention the commitment to the mentoring system for newly educated teachers. Today, in fact, one of three newly educated teachers quit the profession, and a better mentality could give them a better follow-up and damper practice as many newly educated teachers experience. Norway needs more competent professionals in different professions. We know that many drop out of school because of lack of apprenticeship and because the theory is perceived as too little professionally relevant. In order to improve education and to get more people to complete the government's vocational training: improving continuing education and training for teachers in secondary school, professional correcting the theory subjects, increasing apprenticeship grants and an incentive grant of DKK 50000 for new enterprises taking in apprentices. We are also very pleased that the government is providing additional grants to enterprises that include apprentices with special needs. The government will expand the practical letter-of-mortgage scheme and increase the appropriation by 10 million. kr. These are good measures, which will both prevent non-response and ensure more areas of learning. I would also like to stress the need for holistic thinking in school policy, and it is an ongoing approach in the government's budget: real-time education, teacher mobility and other quality promotions, flexible exchange schemes, better apprenticeship arrangements, increased dialogue and cooperation with business and practice-setting – all of this contributes to increasing quality in school. We will get less disqualification, more qualified students who are motivated to become skilled professionals, academics and researchers. This is reflected in the government’s increased focus on research and higher education and in the specific focus on engineering and real-life studies, innovation and industrial research. Innovation is a prerequisite for future value-creating activities. Norway’s value-generating industries are competence-based, and this will be even stronger in the future. Oil and gas, renewable energy, maritime/offshore and marine, finance and ICT are value drivers to safeguard the welfare society of the future. These are different industries, but everyone has one thing in common – they're based on real science. This government prioritizes: The government proposes 50 million. for the modernisation of the equipment park in engineering training. It is necessary in order to ensure high-quality and relevant engineering training for employment and business. The government grants money for teachers' vows instead of cultural school hours in the school leisure system. The government spends half a billion more on research than the Stoltenberg government. The government has clear leadership in its allocations and rates in the real subjects. This shows the will and ability of a policy for sustainability and value creation. The red-green Kuf budget contains only good wishes – and no concrete amendments – and the reason for this may be that they are satisfied with the budget submitted. At least the Progress Party thinks that there are a lot of good reasons to be! I see that my speaking time runs out, so I have to come back to the church budget in a separate post.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e415	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e418	The former member of that committee, Mr. Tord Lien, the current representative of the Grand Duchy, wrote in his blog in 2011 that ‘it is neither too expensive nor ‘very expensive’ to raise the study aid’. He also said in the summer the following to the student newspaper Under Dusken: «I can also promise 11 months of student support within the four-year period is over.» And he took no reservations about 16.3 p.m. digestion. Does the representative Thorsen agree with Lien's description of the costs of study support, and does she agree with his guarantee of 11 months of study support?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e425	I am as concerned as Tord Lien and the representative Henriksen that the students should have good study conditions and tolerably good finances during the studies. It is also worth noting that the last time the students got as much growth as they do this year, the Progress Party was actually also with and took care of it. This shows that the Progress Party is eager and is in charge of the students. That being said, there is a new record for the students, which is far beyond what the red-greens have proposed in their annual budgets for the students. With that in mind, we're on our way, and we're going to make sure that the students get better relationships now. The increase is 3.7 pst. And that's the biggest increase in the last ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e436	The representative of Thorsen says that the government is betting on knowledge, but I think I got a little bad response from the representative Vinje from the Right in place. They had ‘high ambitions’ for a ‘knowledge-based business’. The representative of Thorsen talks about both competence-based business and innovation, and yesterday we heard the Minister of Agriculture who had great ambitions for increased production, increased profitability and increased consumer focus on food and food production. Then we have the climate challenges on top. Nevertheless, the government's proposals, which were partly fought back by the Christian People's Party and the Left, came with great cuts in agricultural research. Can the representative Thorsen assure me that it is cut that will not be repeated in next year's budget? I also wonder if she can say whether agriculture is an area that does not fall within the definition of ‘knowledge-based business’ and that they must then deal with the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e449	Research in the agricultural and food sectors is very important for the Progress Party. It is important in both national and global contexts. The reason why we're getting a change now, a cut compared to the budget proposals of the Stoltenberg government, is that we want to have a review and sharpen the research funds against what works. This year, there is an increase of 11.9 million. Compared to the 2013 balanced budget. The total research and development budget is 437.8 million. kr. With regard to the EU Framework Programme, Horizon 2020, food research is actually one of the most important areas of activity, so we expect agriculture to have the opportunity to seize that opportunity to apply for funding from this programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e460	In the Progress Party’s programme, there will be a boost in knowledge that has an unmistakable belief in competition as a means of promoting learning. The party goes a long way in sketching its future Norwegian school as inspired by the Swedish school. It shall be carried out through extensive student tests, increased use of competition, the publication of test results, in order to allow competition between schools and, in addition, with more private balls, in order to increase competition further. The party of progress has formed a government with the Right, and we've got a minister of knowledge that slows down program formulations from both parties. There should be not so much testing, not so many private balls, etc. This strategy that one goes quite so far away from the Progress Party's original policy – how is he perceived by the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e469	That was a very comprehensive question. I wonder if the representative has misunderstood a bit of the Advance Party's policy in this area. We are very comfortable with the policy we are now running in the government, we are absolutely. We are in order that there should be a diversity of schools — not private schools — that have good content and that provide students with a good education. It is the most important thing when it comes to setting up private schools. Children actually like to compete, and we're not going to put a damper on children's natural development, which shows that they might like to compete both in physical activities and in other competitions, for example. guessing contests. That joy must also bring the children into school and develop. Sometimes you win, and sometimes you lose. It can be a good ballast for children to take with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e480	My question to the representative Thorsen is a follow-up to what Mr Tingelstad Wøien asked for. Thorsen could assure that the Progress Party was very concerned with agricultural research. Then I wonder why there was a suggestion from the government, in which the Progress Party sits, to cut almost 20 million. kr for agricultural research.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e488	It is as I said: instead of lubricating thinly in research in many areas, we will have a review and make sure that the research is fed into what is most relevant. We also focus on opportunities to participate in Horizon 2020 for agriculture. Now the new government has to have the opportunity and time to look at how to tackle this in the future. It will happen in cooperation with the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e497	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e500	A week and a half ago, the results of the PISA study were published, and some people were somewhat disappointed. Norwegian school students perform slightly below the average in the OECD countries in math and natural sciences and something above the average in reading and writing. We all have high ambitions for the Norwegian school, and then we would like to see Norwegian students do it even a little bit better. We need to recognise that we have a real science challenge in Norwegian school, and we need to find the right means to raise the level. I believe that raising the level of competence among teachers is one of the tools that need to be done, and I believe that the teachers' commitment to which it is now being put up, with a systematic commitment to the continuing training of teachers, is a step in the right direction. But we also have to help the teachers succeed. The Christian People's Party has long wanted to make the mentoring system compulsory for newly educated teachers. Then you get help and guidance early in your career to find out what works and what does not work in your class. I believe that competence in just class management and the dissemination of knowledge is as important as the sound expertise of the teachers. I also think it's a little about attitudes among students and parents. We've seen it materially very well in this country. The few need to wear for their daily bread. We might quickly get a sense that things are going to work out anyway. Then we all have a responsibility to cultivate motivation and good attitudes in our children by speaking positively about learning, school and teachers. But even though many people were a little disappointed with the PISA results, it's important that we can keep our heads cold. The solution is not a comprehensive commitment to more testing, more requirements and more reporting. It can quickly do more damage than good, and we can risk destroying what is actually positive in the PISA study, because the picture is not just black. There are also points of light. Students report less trouble than before, better learning environment and better interaction between teacher and student. It's great, and a good learning environment is crucial for students to be able to perform well. But it is essential, above all, that our children should have a safe and healthy everyday life at school. The PISA study also does not provide a full picture of the school and the challenges we face. We must not just focus on the somewhat weak math results. We know that more than 40,000 children are bullied regularly. For many, it means a day-to-day with discomfort and insecurity. For some it means a broken childhood. In the period 2001–2005, bullying was documented to be reduced by 30 pst. At that time, the country's prime minister lifted the fight against bullying as an important asset. In recent years, this work has not been given the same obvious priority, and now bullying has again become a major problem. The Stoltenberg government put down correctly, just before the elections, a sample to investigate measures to improve the school environment and combat bullying, and I look forward to this investigation being presented in June 2015. Now I hope that the country's new Prime Minister and Minister of Knowledge will once again raise this issue. It's about the dignity and quality of life of our children. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) in the negotiations with the government parties and the Left was able to make 10 million. kr to a pot for which schools, municipalities and county councils can apply for support from concrete measures to improve the learning environment. This is a good opportunity to test out which actions work, and what we can continue to do. This could be done, for example, by: be an opportunity to test out a mob representative scheme in one or more counties. Another major challenge in the Norwegian school is the great dropout. Too many people do not complete secondary education, and too many do not complete higher education. An important key to bringing down the dropout is to ensure that more people choose the right course of education. I'd like to point out in particular at the colleges, which is a good alternative for many. I'm glad that the majority of the committee will give students with general study competence the opportunity to enter the vocational schools and make it easier to move on from a vocational school education to, for example. an engineering training. To get more students to complete their education, we also need to make it easier to be a full-time student. The increase in student support in this budget is the largest in many years, but the Christian People's Party will work to further increase student support. It is a good investment in knowledge and competence. Schools are about more than just knowledge. It's not just education, it's education. It's education. It's about developing as a human being. Some schools differ slightly from other schools, and then I think about the high schools. This is a valuable, but often a little underestimated, supplement to the other educational provision. Many people say that the year of high school is the year that has helped most to shape them as human beings. Now there hasn't been a single new high school in Norway in the last ten years, and I'm glad that in negotiations with the government parties and the Left, we found room to provide start-up grants to Kristiansand high school with start-up in 2015. This is going to be a folk high school that's going to give an offer to lonely young mothers, and I'm sure this very high school will mean way too many. It's the public school that makes up the support bar in the Norwegian school system, and that's how I think it must be in the future as well. However, it is important to provide private schools that provide a real alternative to public schools, either because they offer alternative pedagogics, or because they provide an alternative based on faith. Such schools are necessary to ensure parents’ right to choose a different type of school for their children from that offered by the public, and this is a right enshrined in international conventions. There has to be maximum economic equality between public and private schools, and I am therefore pleased that the Christian People's Party has been able to put in place a capital grant for these 10 million free schools. kr. This is a beginning, and the Christian People's Party will work to raise this amount in future budgets. Private actors also represent an important complement in higher education, and private universities contribute not least to increasing the breadth and diversity of the study offer. In higher education too, there is a need for a greater level of non-discrimination between private and public actors. We have to make sure that the private universities get funding for their infrastructure so that they don't push the bill over to the students. The private study offer should not only be an offer for students with a good economy. We also need to ensure that private actors get their share of new study places and scholarship positions. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee agreed on an opinion that the approximately 100 new scholarship positions put in place after the negotiations should be allocated to both private and public institutions. I will end by pointing out that for several years the Christian People's Party has called for a stronger commitment to knowledge, education and research. I think we all agree that this is necessary to ensure the country's well-being in the coming years. The budget now adopted is an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e540	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e543	Thank you for a very interesting and good post from the representative. The government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has entered for the introduction of a KRLE course in the school. The government platform clearly states that there should be at least 55 pst. Christianity in teaching time. SV finds it problematic for several reasons. Firstly, the former CRL subject has been condemned as being contrary to human rights in the European Court of Human Rights. In addition, it will also weaken teaching in a number of other areas that are important in a multicultural society. My question to the representative is, when one is going to increase the part of Christianity to 55 pst., what part of the KRLE subject is it going to cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e552	I thank you for that question, and I have to make it clear that we are not going back to the old CRL subject. The changes that are now being made will not conflict with the judgment of the Human Rights Court. Christianity is not to be given a qualitative priority, but it is right that we want to increase the proportion of Christianity in the profession. I believe that it is natural for us to learn more about the religion that is, first of all, the largest religion in the world. Second, it's the largest religion in Norway, and thirdly, it's the religion that has influenced our society most invariably, both historically and today. I believe that knowledge of Christianity is a crucial key to understanding the society in which we live.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e557	The cord shift is over. I have understood that perhaps Mr Tyvand's representative had a proposal that was to be addressed? We have reason to believe that he has a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e562	I will address the proposal that the Christian People's Party has promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e567	Excellent. Then the representative Anders Tyvand mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e570	The Minister of Knowledge has made it a point on several occasions that the government has gone to work by giving a strong priority. It seems to me to be relatively sound and sensible, and many of the measures, or priorities, that have been adjusted in this budget are also fully agreed in this Chamber. There is therefore reason to congratulate the Minister of Knowledge on the impact of good proposals, and for his well-being through what was certainly demanding government negotiations at the Chamber. The so-called teacher vow contains many elements that the Centre Party supports, for the further training of teachers and the co-financing of state allowances, there is no innovation that the Right Party and the Advance Party stand alone. It's a continuation of what the red-green government put on rails already through, among other things. the Quality Competence strategy. Before the red-green era, there was no state strategic commitment to this. With the red-green government, this was systematised and given priority in cooperation with school owners and teachers, with state leadership on professional equipment, etc. – a targeted job that takes time. So, as already mentioned, it's great that the government parties and opposition can stand together to raise further education in 2014, so that even more teachers can become safer in their trades and better to learn away. But there's never any free lunch, or dugurd, as we say. This bet will not be billed, and the receiver is the students. To be a party claiming to invest in knowledge, the Minister of Knowledge's own party seems to deviate from this when it comes to practical policy. The knowledge base is clear: research shows that good school results depend on a good teacher, but also on activity and nutrition. It will be a little cheap and simple rhetoric to say that one should give priority to the most important first and focus on further education at the expense of fruit and vegetables. As mentioned above, we do not disagree with the priority of quality in education in the form of continuing education, and we have given it priority, but we have done so in balance with other good purposes which also have a bearing on how well young people benefit from education. When the government first leaves its own mantra of holding back the use of oil money, it really seems a little shaky, but perhaps a little bit petty, to pluck the apples out of the hands of the students. It's not healthy. I said from this pulpit in the debate on the throne that the education chapter in the government statement reminds me a lot of H.C. Andersen's fairy tale about the emperor's new clothes. Not surprisingly, this is followed up by the additional proposition, with ‘clothing’ as a teacher lift and professional lift. I'm glad the emperor is so wise that he wears heirloom. I would like to remind you that there was broad cross-political support for the reform of the Knowledge Charter, and the main lines of school policy have been very much in agreement. In particular, early efforts and efforts to strengthen literacy, writing and computing skills – which governments have already strengthened. This is good. Then I have also assumed that the recently submitted PISA results would receive some attention here today, and that is natural enough. There's no reason to construct an image that the Norwegian school has now dumped in math. Yes then, we should all wish that the progress from 2009 had kept going, and that Norway had advanced on the ranking. But I think we do well to listen more to those who have analyzed results than those who make headlines, and let me add – those who want to use this test to pass a political judgment on national knowledge policies in recent years. These are, after all, marginal differences, and the main trend is that the results are stable over time. Stable bad, someone will claim. Well, not exactly the league we should have wanted, but we can't take a true verdict on the learning outcomes of Norwegian students based on this test. We can't look at it all alone. We also have to count with other assessments and studies. PISA is testing something, but not everything, and the positive with PISA we haven't heard too much about. There is no reason to be satisfied with the PISA results in isolation, but there is no need to make declarations of war either. Let it go that the government feels the need to create a good starting point for its mision – and for the post of the Council of State – by declaring crisis situations, but let us not waste good work in school with the bath water and arrange the teaching so that it can be taken up by international and national test regimes. It would be wise if we could now listen to those who have actually dived into the test results, and to what the results actually tell. First of all, adjusted for error margins, PISA shows that we haven't done a steep dip in the curve, but we're stable over time. Swallow if we wish that the curve had pointed upwards, the good sign of improvement at the lower step. It shows the results of the TIMSS and PIRLS studies. In our neighbouring countries, the trend is the opposite. There is no one, neither school politicians nor teachers, who disagrees that we as a nation have a real science challenge. There's no news, and it's actually taken care of already. But we can do more than that. The real science strategy is known and put on the rails of the red-green government, and we have to build it on. Much more important than focusing on ranking is looking at what researchers point to as improvement potential, and concrete tips on what teachers and students together should do better. Keywords are: application of knowledge or, in other words, math in practice and more practical science. The content of hours and variation in education are much more important than the number of hours. I am very pleased that the government parties and an overall opposition can stand together on important measures to raise the professions – both to make it easier to get more apprenticeships and to increase the quality of education – so that we prevent non-response. The evaluation of the promise of knowledge showed that this reform had little or no impact on the professions. When the government launches a so-called professional profession, it is more self-reliant than new policies. I remind you again that the so-called promise was initiated by the red-green government, with changes first in high school, by, among other things. to introduce the electoral profession and to experiment with the labour market. The evaluation of the professional subjects was then presented in a communication to the Stortinget which was adopted in this Chamber in June this year. It's not just in the National Assembly that we bank budgets a day. The country's 428 primary school owners and 19 secondary school owners also play with the budget for next year. I notice with concern that six out of ten municipalities have proposed cuts in the school budget. Of those who respond to the proposed cut, seven out of ten report that there is a proposed cut in teacher’s year. The reason for the cuts is essentially a weak economy in the municipalities. Therefore, on behalf of students, teachers and parents, I would like to send a statement of concern to the Minister of Knowledge. The whole thing is really simple math: if the municipalities as school owners are not put in a financial position to meet the expectations set for a good school, it will not be a quality level and a teacher's level – on the contrary. There is no need for municipal freedom of action to take substantial action in the distribution of teacher density, educational organisation and quality development due to the need to balance the budget. Cuts in school budgets will in practice mean, among other things, even more pupils in larger classes, less time to follow-up of students, less practical education, fewer temporary workers, more pooling of classes and fewer teachers of continuing education – contrary to what we know, it is important to ensure that all students have the opportunity to be seen, to be motivated and to develop themselves professionally and socially. Finally, to me, it is a paradox, and quite incomprehensible, that a government that says that they are betting on knowledge and research, is committed to cutting research efforts in the agricultural and food sectors. It is totally incomprehensible that a government council which in this Chamber last night said that the aim of the government was both to increase food production and to increase profitability and to be the Council of State for the consumer, does not see that the development of Norwegian agricultural products should be on a knowledge-based basis. The Minister of Agriculture talked yesterday about everything she had seen from new technology in agriculture after she became a minister. It's very fine, and I hope she also gets a little insight into what, for example. research on plants and animals has led to agricultural research. Cuts in agricultural and food research funds will not contribute to increased innovation and more robust agriculture, nor to increased consumer safety, but on the contrary. It's a mystery for me and the Center Party, so I hope the Minister of Knowledge can give a good explanation of that in his speech today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e596	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e600	One of the greatest challenges of our time is the dropout in high school. Half of our annual budgets choose vocational training, and the rate of drop-out is highest here – in fact, it is only about 15 pst. completing with professional competence. This year, 1,400 young people were missing, or as much as 8 pst. by those applying for Vg2 grades in two or more subjects. These are students who will face challenges in completing an ordinary vocational training course and who will need specific arrangements to complete it. The right-hand party government has therefore raised 10 million. kr to help the apprentices who need it. But despite the fact that the red-greens have jumped behind in our bet, we have not received support from the red-greens for this action. Why does the representative Tingelstad Wøien think that these young people do not deserve this promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e607	I think it is very nice that the government parties have gone in to grant more money for this. We have not prioritised it in our budget. What I think we need to be very aware of is the decision that was made in Stortingen the last time, about the conversion of the professions. We've been trying out the 2+2 race for many years. Now we're going to have more exchange models. We're going to have more TAF races. As the representative Giske said before, we have an addition: after two years in the profession and two years as an apprentice, we have an opportunity to take a general education in the end. I think it's good. I also think it's very good what the red-green government did. It entered into tripartite cooperation where one, together with municipalities and the business community, committed to providing more apprenticeship places. I believe that this will also work positively in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e616	The Progress Party is committed to ensuring the working conditions of students and teachers. I guess that's what the Center Party is, too. The Training Act is to be regarded as the Work Environment Act of the students. It has clear health, environmental and safety requirements — for the benefit of both students and teachers. Interest-free loans to school buildings and swimming pools have been successful and in line with the objective. Many schools have been refurbished as a result of the scheme. This has given better employment to employees and students throughout the country. However, we still receive many enquiries and reports about poor indoor climate and poor sanitary conditions in schools. The entire committee says they are satisfied with the continuation of the interest-rate compensation scheme. What is the reason why the red-greens do not continue to do so in their budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e625	I think the best thing we can do to help students get better employment in their schools is to provide a good community economy. It is the basis for the ability of municipalities to provide good employment for students. We see examples of municipalities that have prioritised spending money on cleaning up school buildings, but are facing challenges in their operation and content. I think we have to be aware that a good community economy is a prerequisite for all good schooling.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e630	Over eight years with the Central Party in government, the CRL subject was replaced by RLE. The share of Christianity in the trade was reduced from 55 p.m. to about a third. School services and tables suddenly became somewhat controversial and were removed in several places. The use of religious symbols was also discussed as a problem. Value neutrality has been raised as an ideal. I would like to ask the representative of the Central Party whether this development has been in line with the wishes and policies of the Central Party, or whether she and the Party would have preferred a different administration of the Christian cultural heritage in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e637	I do not agree with the proposal that the Christian People's Party has been fighting through with the government parties, that we should have a greater emphasis on Christianity. I think it's very important that we in our society have a broad approach. I also believe that the main emphasis as it is today will be that we build on the Christian heritage even when we teach in these subjects. In the case of school gods, I – and my party – am very much in favour of having school gods in Norway. A discussion of this must be tolerated, but we are based on the Christian cultural heritage. We're going to keep doing that, so school gods are the center party for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e646	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e649	Training the growing generation is one of the most important things a society can do. It's not oil we're going to live off in the future -- it's our wise heads. It's these heads that make up our greatest national wealth. As politicians responsible for the field of education and research, it is our prime task to manage this wealth in the best possible way. Knowledge and research are one of the main priorities of the alternative government budget of the Left. Research and education are important prerequisites for future jobs and well-being. Not least, it is crucial for us to be able to take the step into the knowledge society. The Right-wing Party Government has chosen to strengthen the education sector in relation to the proposal promoted by the Red-Green Government. The left still believes that this field should be lifted even more. This is our ability to take advantage of our unique base of competence as a nation and with the economic assumptions we have, to help move the world forward. There are many who can agree that the teacher is the most important single factor in Norwegian school, and that it is the teacher we have to bet on if we want to raise our students. But not everyone is willing to prioritize the teacher as much as what we in the left have done. In our alternative state budget, we added 550 million. kr more than the red-green for teacher empowerment measures. Of course, we are pleased that one in the budget that will be adopted has strengthened this area, but we are concerned that empowerment is something that all teachers have both the right and the duty to take, not just those who teach mathematics and science. Kids are whole people, who have the benefit and joy of mastering in every subject. The formal competence of the teacher is also important for the teaching of subjects other than mathematics and natural sciences. The left will therefore work to ensure that subsequent increases in the number of continuing training places are not only reserved for these two subjects. The left is also occupied with the approx. 10 000 non-qualified teachers working in Norwegian school today. These are people who have chosen to work at school because they like to work with children and young people, and because they have a lot to contribute here. Then we have to have a plan for how we can best organise that this group, which is very complex, gets the skills that are necessary. In the left, we are very pleased with the point in the budgetary agreement with the government parties, where it appears that the government has to work out a modified scheme for teaching aid, so that today's statutory system can be terminated and the individual school or school owner can organise the homework according to their needs. We are looking forward to this investigation being presented in connection with next year's government budget. Wherever I meet school leaders and teachers, the feedback is that today's system is too rigid, and that they themselves want to dispose of these funds to provide homework to those who need it the most. They themselves know how to organise this in the best possible way. We are also pleased with the government's signals that it will be easier to make your career in the classroom. This must be an essential part of the teacher's lift. We made proposals on this in the previous period. We meet the further work on this. In our alternative state budget, we also strengthened the study federations by 5 million. kr. After a re-priority in the committee, this pot was strengthened by 1 million. kr within the framework. By strengthening the study associations, we are facilitating people to acquire skills throughout their lives in different ways outside the traditional education system. As we in the Left see it, learning something new is a value both for individuals and for society, regardless of whether it follows the study score. Here we differ a little from the Right Party and the Advance Party, which, through the comment in the committee's position, places great emphasis on the study points. Let me be quite clear that the left is for eleven months' study support. We're going to keep working for this. The red-green government was also for eleven months' study support, but this was not added until they had lost the election and had not had to take the bill. Nevertheless, we are pleased that we have included the government parties in a budget agreement stating that the government is to investigate the student's living conditions, with a view to realising the full-time student. The agreement clearly states that such an investigation should involve a plan to increase the support for the study and the length of the study aid. As we in the left understand this, that means that we're going to get a study grant beyond the ten months it is today, and that therefore we're going to move towards the eleventh month. There are also a number of other things that are important to improve student welfare. In particular, the construction of student housing is important in this context. The left added to its alternative budget an increase of 700 new student homes, a total of 2,000 student homes, which we also promised in our programming. The report ‘Questionnaire for and offer of scholarship positions in Norway by 2020’ estimates the need for up to 400 new scholarship positions annually in the period up to 2020. To fill this need, it's time for a power cap. The left added 500 new scholarship positions to its alternative budget. In the budget agreement with the government, we had the advantage of a strengthening of about 100 scholarship positions. It's a step in the right direction, but it's something we have to bet on in the future, and we have clear expectations for the government that there will be a more offensive bet on scholarship positions in the future. We are also pleased that we received a majority for a comment in the Committee where it is clear that the new universities should be given priority in the award of the new scholarships. If you want to bet on research and higher education, you don't just have more scholarship positions. The left has also wanted to increase the basic compensation of universities and colleges, we have added 2,000 more places of study, and we have contributed funds to 100 new postdoc jobs in our alternative state budget. So a little about tuition. I think a lot of people were surprised when the government added a point about the tuition fee for students outside the EEA. This is contrary to long tradition in Norway that all education should be free of charge for all, and many are afraid that such a tuition fee will in the long term lead to a study fee for all. I am therefore pleased that the bulk of the population has so clearly said no to the tuition fee. The Church and other religious and life-view societies are important social institutions, and the Left believes that we should pursue a holistic and active belief and life-view policy. The left is therefore satisfied with the budgetary agreement with the government parties where both religious training and ICT in the Church were strengthened. As far as church buildings are concerned, these have an important role to play in many communities. In several places, church buildings are also cultural memories that we have to take care of. In the alternative budget of the Left, we found room for a grant to start the refurbishment of the Stavanger cathedral. This is an important work, and I hope there is something the Minister of Culture will look at in the coming time. I am also pleased that in the committee we found room for a small allocation to the Church's resource centre against violence and sexual abuse. There is an important work done here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e690	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e693	The representative of Nybø's party leader said to his own government after the government negotiations: ‘We are sitting on the sidewalk in Stortinget and have a decisive influence on power in Norway.’ And on the other hand, ‘We shall remove power from the enclosed spaces. We will revitalise Stortinget as the power-holders in Norwegian politics." [[...]] My question to the representative Nybø is therefore: What is the Left's argument not to exploit its decisive influence already now, so that we, together with the Christian People's Party, can have a majority of students' wishes for eleven months' student support? Can the representative Nybø guarantee that she will be with us on this next round?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e709	The quotations that were reproduced are definitely what my party leader has said, and in which she is, of course, quite right. It is a responsibility we take very seriously, the role we have in Stortinget. As far as 11 months of study support is concerned, we have put it into our alternative state budget, just as the red-green government did before they left. We've been very clear that this is something we're in for and are going to work for the next four years. Then, of course, we work with everyone who agrees with us on that. I'm of the opinion that we're using our power and influence to get through for eleven months of study support. Now we have reached an agreement with the government on this budget where, in our opinion, it clearly states that study support should be increased – also in length. For us, that means that we're going beyond today's ten months, and that we're going to move in the direction of eleven months' student support.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e718	I just want to say to the representative Nybø that I think it is nice that she is promoting the strengthening of the training of faith, despite the fact that the Left in its alternative budget chose to cut the faith training by 68 million. kr or something of that magnitude. I just want to express satisfaction at the fact that the Left has clearly turned its attention to the importance of the reform of faith and that they will now be strengthening this work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e723	It's the way in budgetary negotiations that you get an impact on something, and then it's the other thing that gets an impact on its things. Some of the breakthroughs you're very happy with, and others you're not so happy with. We in the Left are very pleased to have this budget agreement, together with the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party. That is absolutely something we are satisfied with in this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e728	In the Question Time on 27 November, the representative, Nybø, said that there was a majority in the Stortingen for eleven months of study support, and that this was a very important matter for the Left. Nevertheless, the Left has chosen to give up the fight to increase student support in the budget negotiations this year. Now the left is satisfied that the student's living conditions are to be investigated. I wonder two things: what is the left now does not know about the student's living conditions, which makes a new investigation necessary? Will it be a repetition in the future of the ageing period that the Left will present its losses through its alternative budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e735	That's the majority in the United Kingdom for eleven months of student support, as I see it. But it was also in the last period a majority for eleven months' student support. Then, among other things, the truth was true. The centre party of a majority government and had all the opportunities to implement and implement it during the eight years of the majority government. There is still a majority for eleven months of study support, and the Left is in that majority. We're going to work hard to get it done. The important thing about today's budgetary agreement with the government is not necessarily the investigation; it is that there is to be a plan for increasing student support and the length of study support. Of course, we should have wished that we had already implemented 11 months of study support in this budget agreement. We couldn't, but we're taking a step – a real step – on the way, which I think is longer than that, among other things. The center party came in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e742	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e745	First I just want to say that there have been several very good posts. This draws to be a good discussion. It's important to get some temperature, because this is an area that has enormous significance for Norway. It's really about what society we're going to have in the future. As the only out-of-the-box philosopher, a kind of product of decisions historically grasped in this room, I have been working on researching how new ideas arise, on creativity, on how new knowledge becomes. It's been my field of interest. It's this, creativity, we're going to live off in the future too. It's creativity that decides if we can find answers to the questions that future questions ask us. How do we transform our society to avoid dangerous climate change? How do we ensure work, well-being and security for everyone in the future? Creativity is what's going to be the answer to these challenges. The working life of the future needs and wants creative, independent people. Kindergartens, schools, colleges and universities shall contribute to this. The ideal of good people is both self-development and social development. Creative, independent elephants are better equipped for both work and social life — yes, for life itself. Creativity is the foundation of learning, pedagogics and research. Learning is about understanding something that was previously unknown – it's discovering something new. For SV, the aim is to facilitate creativity and to remove closures that prevent, weaken or directly destroy creativity and learning. The research on creativity is clear – creativity is driven by curiosity. It is the internal motivation that drives the acquisition of new knowledge, the application of knowledge in new ways and the creation of new ideas. Our task as knowledge policy makers is therefore to facilitate a school that creates independent, creative and critical elephants. Basic skills have to lie down, but if we make school too narrow, we'll never be happy to light up the inner motivation of all the elephants. Since students are different, we need to prioritise many different types of actions at the same time. For this reason, SV in the government – and now I mention something – has made a significant contribution to continuing education and training, established new teacher training and increased recruitment. From 2011 to 2012, the number of continuing education increases by 20 pst. We have increased the number of teachers by about 6,000 between 2005 and 2013, 600 extra only in the fall. We've reoriented the school by focusing on previous efforts, so that elephants with challenges get help before, and have increased efforts at school health services and health centres. We have introduced free homework on 1–4. steps. Families with low income and low education and families with a minority background are those who have used this scheme most. We have introduced fruit and green and cultural school hours, which the right side now rejects. We have stood for a varied, practical, aesthetic and theoretical school term, which can trigger different types of people with different types of skills, background and needs. When a person discusses knowledge, a person must stick to knowledge. When the research shows that we get positive learning effects from fruit and vegetables, and when teachers report that there is a positive impact on calm, order and learning, knowledge politicians should stick to it and not rail. The government's going down. State Councillor Røe Isaksen and representative Asheim even used the PISA investigation as a cover to ridicule an important and knowledge-based action in the Norwegian school. In the same way, it's about the cultural school class. Here, too, the countries that add up to cultural and aesthetic outcomes are the ones that do the best in math. Yes, knowledge is difficult to understand, but it must be done by knowledge policy makers. There are many ways to know, or to say it in another way: the brain is not alone. The body needs nourishment and activity and must be stimulated theoretical, practical and aesthetic. The brain is part of an organism and can not only be fed as a computer — instrumentally introduce some knowledge here and there. One has to work with him. Therefore, knowledge policy must give priority to several actions at the same time, not just one or two actions, but several at the same time. Teachers’ competence and the responsibilities and spaces of teachers have much to say about the teaching of the elephants. Unlike the government, SV will increase the number of teachers, give entitlement to continuing education and training, increase the scope for action of the educational profession in the school. There's an important difference here. The commitment to continuing education of teachers is a commitment of the whole Stortinget, and is a continuation of the work that SV started early in the Red-Green Government. We reduced the part of the municipalities from 40 pst. until 25 pst. by agreement with the parties. The new funding has led municipalities to search for more, but not for as many as they want. Now, Stortinget increases the permissions and changes the distribution between state and municipality and teachers again. But a challenge will still be whether the municipalities do with their share, no matter how small it is. An important challenge for municipalities will be to find tutors for teachers who are in further education. There are often unskilled temporary workers and poorer provision for students while the permanent teacher is continuing to train. It will be important for us to ensure that the focus on continuing education is as effective as possible for both teachers and students. Some of the most important thing the red-green government did in school policy was to bet on stronger early efforts. The first years of school are crucial to acquire the skills needed to master the school. But much of the foundation will be laid before the first day of school. Elevane's home situation means a lot. Therefore, it is with concern that I look at the conversion of kindergarten policy on the right. Right, the Advance Party Christian People's Party and Left increase kindergarten prices and cash support at the same time. The result will be that some of the children who would have liked most of the important offers as kindergarten would not be able to participate. That's when the school has to do the rest of the job, etc. with children who meet the first day of school with Norwegian skills that make them tired of being involved in teaching. Good, even feedback where students get feedback about how they are, and what level they are at, has a lot to say in school. Ratings are a narrower feedback, which research rejects as a learning promoter. They are mainly useful in determining access to secondary and higher education. Here the right-hand side goes its own way and assumes that characters enhance the teaching of the elephants. They can't detect it. On the contrary, the countries that do the best in the PISA investigation are the countries that are least involved in testing. External motivation, such as competition, is home to learning — especially among the youngest students. If learning is the goal, it is the internal motivation that needs to be stimulated, the inner drive of each individual student to discover a little more, be curious and use knowledge in creative ways. The right side has itself found that extensive use of student tests stimulates the learner to learn more, that teachers teach better, that the publication of the results enhances learning, and that commercial private schools are the tip of the i. There is no hold point for this. So I'm going to use the last minute to comment on some of the things that have emerged in the debate. It's a big field we're discussing here. Firstly, the right-hand side might say that it's a priority they've done by not choosing fruit and green and culture school hours. That's a good thing. The red-green priority of continuing education and school, etc. plus fruit and green and culture school hours. There's a marked difference. One can't mess it up in the priority. One simply has less stakes in the school. So, for eleven months of college. This was a line match for the center and government. Here everyone except Right has promised it, and yet they're jumping off it. It will weaken the possibilities for students to study and to qualify in their studies. Then it's made as if the government didn't bet on research. We have increased the research by 32 pst from 2005 to today. - a real growth. That's 7 billion. Norwegian Krone. It's gone from 0.79 pst. of GDP to 0.92 pst. GDP. It has been a marked increase, which the government party or others should not underestimate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e787	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e790	The representative Knag Fylkesnes spoke warmly about SV's teacher's lift, and it is so good that we can now stand together on this. But it hasn't been like this that we've been together about it either in the years they put in government, or this fall when they put out their budget. Former SV director and state council member of the red-green government, Erik Solheim, has published a very good book, where he writes about, among other things. This, and where he says, ‘When I fought for the idea of the great teacher’s promise in internal debates in SV, it was argued that driving the teacher is no good because there will be no conflict with the Right.’ If you look at the alternative budgets put forward by the Right and the budgets by the Red-Green Government, and at the latest this autumn the budget by the Red-Green Government presented, and how the red-green then followed the Right and Advance Party, I would just ask the County: why didn't you give priority to the teacher so high?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e802	First of all, the learning lift for SV – as opposed to for Right – is a set of several things. The teacher's promise is to strengthen the competence of the teacher, but also to increase the number of teachers in school. There is a close link between the number of teachers and the learning effect. In addition, what Asheim's representative has to say, is that the Right is concerned with the issue of teacher's lift, and that is the issue of empowerment. From the time Clamet was in government, and to this day it has been an enormous increase in continuing education. First of all, we got a permanent state system that went from 25 pst. State part for 40 pst. State part. It still does not get the big effect we are after, but it has meant that all the municipalities that have applied for social benefits have received it in 2012 and 2013. But we want several municipalities to search, so we want to introduce a right to further education.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e809	Today, in the evening, a new Norwegian school survey is being presented. It says that the schools in Finnmark are doing a very good job. Finnmark is the worst out of the counties of the study, but County Council for Education – Elisabeth Isaksen of SV – believes it's about the student base: ‘I don’t think that is necessarily bad quality. In Finland, 50 percent does not complete and exist or end in five years, and with such a barometer it is clear that we are the worst in the country. But we've worked a lot to raise the quality. It is my hypothesis that schools do a very good job, and that the result could be much worse." Then my question is, is it to understand that there are students there is something wrong with, or is it what this SV means by creating creative and knowledgeable students?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e820	Thank you for the question. This gives you an opportunity to say a little about the decline in the northernmost states – especially Finnmark. When it comes to the statement of Isaac, its starting point is probably a little different from what it is to understand in the Evening Post, and as I know it, it's a good politician in Finnmark. Hennar's starting point is that people live very widely in Finnmark. This is about secondary school. People live very widely, it's long travel distances, people have to live on shelter. We know that hybelbuars are a very exposed group of school dropouts. Studs include: Finnmark just shows that there are 50 pst. higher chances of hubbubs falling out of secondary schools than those living in the city. So when you talk about the student base, it's probably more likely that Finnmark has very special challenges, big distances, which means that you have to work a little bit differently to get down the drop-off there than anywhere else in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e827	Both SV and the Christian People's Party want eleven months of study support, and the representative of the Fylkesnes expresses some disappointment that the centre parties did not take the care of the red-green government further. After all, I have to be allowed to ask why the red-green government and SV chose to send a passport to us rather than score themselves. Now they've had open targets for eight years, but they haven't done anything about it. I just want to hear if the representative of Fylkesnes is satisfied with the red-green government and SV's efforts to raise the student support in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e836	First of all, when it comes to scored goals: if we're all a few that we're going to score goals, it's very strange that not the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government just put their feet forward and kick the ball in when they had the possibility. But to get back to the question: we have prioritised housing in our period. It has been a priority which the student organisations have also been in. The construction of buildings has been at a rather low level – especially after the previous civil government. We've traveled it, so that for the last four years we've averaged about 1,000 dwellings each year, with a very high proportion – almost 2,000 – in the last few years. That work must continue, it is very important. Then we were able, and it has been a dream for me as a former student politician for a long time – since the end of the 1990s – to get student support for eleven months. We got it, but of course the bill will have an effect on the budget in the next few years. But I think we have to put it aside and just try to get it done anyway, and then it doesn't help to blame each other, one just has to work together to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e843	It is the representative's party, the Socialist Left Party, who has had the Minister of Knowledge for the last eight years. During this government period, a sample was set up to look at the need for scholarship positions by 2020. It concluded that there is a major need and an annual need for up to 400 scholarship positions by 2020. So my question is whether the representative is satisfied with the efforts of the red-green government in this area, given that the last budget it presented contained only 60 new scholarship positions, and that it was probably the first time since 2009 that new scholarship positions were given.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e850	I may never think I'm going to be -- or never, it's going to be hard on -- but I'm not going to be happy for a long time when it comes to investing in research and higher education. I think of it as an area where we really need to get to a whole new level in Norway. We've also worked for that in the government, and we've had an impact on a number of bets. But there's a lot of things that are important in a government budget, there's a lot of things that are important in a plural government, so we've come a little bit on the way. What has made higher education and research a growth area — perhaps the large growth area — in the state budget over the last eight years has been that we have increased the investment by 7 billion. kr from 2005 to today. With a real growth of 32 pst. I don't think there is any other sector that has had the same growth as research. This has led to many scholarship positions also at the universities. In addition, we have received about 1000 new scholarship and postdoc settings in our government in the years. However, as I believe it is necessary for new scholarships, but also in general in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e857	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e860	There is a lot that is good in Norway, and that also means that there is a lot that is good in school. But we're not in politics just to boast of everything that's good. We are also in the policy of trying to do something about what can get better. There are two starting points I think we should have when we are going to further manage this society on behalf of both this generation – people who have chosen us – and future generations. One is that we have to rust Norway for the future. We have now been through a good period in the Norwegian economy. Now we see that it may start to creep a little bit the other way, but there has been a good period – a good decade – in the Norwegian economy. But it's not that international competition is going to stop. It's not that the workplaces are going to be safer by themselves. It's not that research and development is going to go by itself. All this must be invested in. And this government has done as Jens Stoltenberg once said, when he introduced the rule of action and unanimously agreed to it, namely that we should use oil revenues for future investments in knowledge and research, in transport and in growth-promoting tax reliefs. The second reason why we can't be satisfied, among other things. based on the PISA results, we as a society have high ideals. We've said it very simply. If you distill it down, we've said to every first class that starts at school: after you finish your basic education, you should have gotten the tools you need for the rest of your life. You should have learned to read and write. You should have learned math and math, and you should have learned the other things you need to become a good citizen of society and go into work. When that promise is not fulfilled for all, when too many people don't feel that promise becomes a reality, we still have a way to go. This is the starting point for the government to believe that there is both a need for a teacher's vow, for a professional lift, for a shift in the pace of research and higher education policy, and that we want to take a new impetus against bullying. The teacher's vow is the main initiative of this government. I think it is very good that it now turns out that there is a great deal of support for this government's policy in Stortinget. That's very good. But it's worth mentioning that it hasn't always been like this. We took over a budget in which the appropriations for the major State Programme of Quality Competence, which was properly established by the previous government, were continued in 2014. We didn't think that was good enough, and that's why we did something about it. We believed that it did not just keep pointing a finger at the municipalities and saying that you have to send more teachers to continue training. We did something about it. We increased the share of all – the state’s share – to 60 pst, and an additional power cap of 75 pst. State share for math and science teachers. We did something about it. Corresponding to professionalism: it is important that we bet on good trade union workers. It is important that we take a boost to bring down unnecessary theorization of the professions. That's why this government did something that wasn't in the budget: we're increasing the apprentice's grant. Then we put in place a new scheme of $50,000 in reward for new apprentice companies. This government did it, it wasn't inside what we took over. In research, we said we wanted a change of pace. Half a billion, almost — all in all — more for research in this budget. The half billion was not in prison two months ago – this government took hold, we did. In study welfare, many could have wanted more. I understand that students in particular could wish for more, but after all, this government has put forward, with the support of the majority in Stortinget, the greatest promise in the student economy since the Quality Reform was introduced – i.e. over ten years. Finally, I would like to say something about bullying. Because in school it's not just about having good teachers, it's also about being able to feel safe. This government is going to go through bullying policy, not because it doesn't work, but because we see that it doesn't work well enough. Unfortunately, bullying in this country does not go down. There's too many kids going to school with a black little lump in their stomach, and then it's very hard to concentrate on mathematics. We're also going to realize what's on our platform, that the starting point for bullying is that if it's put on the top -- we hope it doesn't -- and someone has to switch schools, the more sunny rule is that it's the bully that's going to switch schools, not the one that's been bullied.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e883	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e886	When you hear the Minister of Knowledge posts, it's almost as if you should think that he has a kind of year 0 for investing in education, and that's when he himself entered those offices. I think we're going to leave to others to set the starting point for year 0 – we're going to discuss that budget today as well. As for the change of pace, we asked a question about the state budget, where we asked for an overall overview of the pluses and minuses that the budget entails in the field of knowledge. When you look at this, and then I didn't bring the babysitting kits, the impact of what you do in the field of knowledge in 2015 is a plus of about 940 million. NOK, but a minus of SEK 1,050 million. kr. According to PISA, it was going to be a minus together. I wonder if that's what you meant in the election campaign, that the change in pace was at a slightly slower pace.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e893	Let me first say that I'm too conservative to think there's any year 0. I just pointed out objectively what this government has put on, which the previous government did not. And the sum of that is over 300 million. kr extra, fresh funds for the knowledge field, which the red-green government had not put in. If you were to be a little strict and populistic, you could go through it and say that if we were to follow the budget of the red-green government, it would have been a cut of 300 million. SEK for further training of teachers, a cut of nearly 80 million. kr for improved and strengthened apprenticeships, etc. The working party has been with us on almost all things, except that one has not wanted to strengthen the scheme for apprentices with special needs. I think that's a shame. Then it's probably not the math skills, but the history skills that Giske has to do with, because it says a little bit about the Workers' Party when you have to look at a budget for 2015, which is not yet proposed, to show the differences between this government and the opposition. The truth is, the red-greens gave less, we give more because we're betting on knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e902	Of course you have to look at the effect of all the pluses and minuses. You can't close your eyes and say, "No, we're removing 11 months of study funding, but the impact doesn't come until 2015, so it's really not a cut." You cut with one hand, and you add with the other. And yes, more attention is paid to the continuing training of teachers. Now we started that escalation with state subsidies, so you still have one way to go to add to the same amount as we did. But okay, that's a good bet. But you take the money from the students. Yes, you're betting on research, on higher education, but you're taking the money from the students. You just don't come from that. When you're talking about a change of pace, you have to look at the sum of this. You're going to spend $4,000 million. kr more in oil money and has a net increase up to and including 2014 of less than 10 pst. of this to knowledge. Is there any proper use of oil money? I repeat my question: Was the change of pace meant to be a change of pace at a slower pace, or can you expect that you should actually spend more money net on education in the years ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e912	I expect the representative Giske to agree that it makes sense to deal with the effects of the 2014 budget. Just to see if I understand the representative Geske right: He believes that because it is estimated that 11 months of study support from 2015 has been removed, the effect of a potential budget that the government is going to present is like this in 2015. It is – with all due respect – a very strange way of counting, when we can deal with the budgetary effects in 2014. They show very clearly what are the priorities of this government compared to the previous one. The representative’s government – when you were sitting – compared to ours – would cut over 300 million. kr for further training of teachers, the representative’s government would cut out almost 80 million. kr in the apprenticeship grant and the opposition party of the representative will not participate in a small uplift in order to provide apprentices with an additional opportunity in 2014. The Workers' Party will have a cut of 10 million. kr. It is – with respect to reporting – quite strange.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e917	The story of two eight-year-olds who stayed alone on their birthday has moved many in the past week. Now we don't know the reason why there were no guests in this particular birthday, but the story has in any case helped to focus on the social environment in school and the fight against bullying. In the Bondevik II government, the fight against bullying was lifted as an important matter for the government, and the increased awareness brought results. On Tuesday we could read on the grounds that the fight against bullying is also a heart issue for our new Minister of Knowledge. We also heard in his posts today that this is something that concerns the Council of State. I would like to ask the Council of State what he wants to do to create a better learning environment in school beyond the 10 million. kr that the Christian People's Party was negotiated into next year's budget – whether we can expect to see a government council that will follow the ambitions of the Bondevik government in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e926	In this area, I think it's about ambitions at a completely different level than other political ambitions. Because I think our ambitions can't be anything but that as long as there's a single child in Norway and he's afraid to go to school because he or she's being bullied, we haven't reached our goal. Then you can discuss whether it's realistic or not, but we can't have lower ambitions than that. This is one thing where the macros don't match all the good stories out in the schools. It's doing a lot of good work, but the numbers show that bullying doesn't go down. Now a sample of the previous government – the Djupedal Committee – has been put down to go through sections of the bullying policy. The problem is that the sample will deliver in 2015, while it is part of the state-supported bullying programmes whose time runs out in 2014. There are things we have to do something about, so that we don't stay out of state-supported bullying programs, and then we have to go into the most important thing, namely principal management and school management, and strengthen the effort there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e933	I want to join the previous speech and say that it is good that the Council of State is such a clear champion against bullying. I think there's a lot of people who recognize going with a black lump in your stomach when you get to school. The right has become enthralled with both fruit and green, cultural and electoral lessons, etc. I've been a teacher at school for 13 years, and I know kids are very different. They have different assumptions, they learn different ways and they have different motivations. I am very happy that the Right has not touched the electoral professions, and I hope they do not. I also hope that they will put in place work when the evaluation of it shows good results. I want to challenge the Council of State to tell you a little bit about what he thinks about the school's system and content, and whether it matters to students' motivation and effort, or whether it's just the teacher, regardless of the subject, which is the best motivation factor for the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e942	It was a big and important question to answer in 1 minute. Let me just say first and foremost that I have never – I hope – have had a hunch on the fruit and vegetables system. I've never had a hustle and bustle with the cultural school class either. I even had six very good years as a cultural school student in Porsgrund. What I have said is that there is something more important to give priority to. When we include: sees that the results of the PISA study show that we have a real decline in mathematical results, we need to strengthen what is most important in school, and that's the teacher. It doesn't mean that a school class in the school leisure system can't be nice, it doesn't mean that fruit and green can't be fine, it just means that the most important thing is to spend money on the teacher. That's what this government is doing -- 300 million. kr more than the previous government. Now the previous government parties have come after, and I am pleased about that. So there's a lot of work going on for the students to learn at school. Bullying and irritating is one thing, the learning environment, where, fortunately, there are improvements now, is important, school management, the municipality as a school owner, early efforts – all these things are important, and we also prioritise a lot of it in the budget. But the greatest and most important priority is a new teacher's promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e955	Many have spoken in their speeches about the importance of teachers in school, and so have the Council of State on several occasions. We know that's approx. 10,000 non-qualified teachers in school today, and it's a very complex group. There are no simple steps that can be taken to enable them to become teachers. I wonder, what does the Council of State intend to do to enable these non-qualified teachers to carry out their jobs in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e964	The goal is to get more of them to want to become qualified teachers. Then I think we have to tackle the problem from multiple angles of incidence. First of all, it's an objective that we should increase the achievement of teacher education even more, so that we can get even more students to want to apply there. We should – and I know that Left has been busy – make a plan to see how to get those who have worked for a long time as interns in school to want to take the formal education they need to become teachers. It is very different – some may, for example: have an engineering education or a librarian education, and then they just need pedagogy and maybe depression in some subject or something in order to become teachers. So it's possible to work with. I also believe that the schools, the municipalities and the counties must be very aware that very much of this they might be able to solve by using teachers who are already at school. It's also an intrusive angle. The last one is that we know that many teachers don't work at school, so if we can lure more of them back, even if only as temporary teachers, it could fix the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e975	I'm sitting on a question that I've asked the Minister of Knowledge. It's about student support. I didn't get a real answer to that. The government and the centre have chosen to push the decision — if not decided — to increase to eleven months of study support because one needs to know more, one needs to figure out more. I'm going to try to be as specific as possible in my question, so I'm sure an answer: absolutely concrete: what is the minister's intention to find out about the student's living conditions that we don't already know today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e982	Now it's no secret that this government took out eleven months of student support, and then there was a decision in the Stortinget that said that we should both increase the scholarship, look at the increase in length and go through the student's living conditions. What we know about it is among other things. that in the last eight years, students have been slowing down compared to Norwegian employees every single year, simply because they have not received any greater increase than price increases. That means that while most people have received better advice, the students have relatively slowed down every year for the last eight years. That's the one. The second thing that we know a little bit less about is for example. the relationship between study quality and study funding. There's research on it, and there's Norwegian figures on it, but there's still a lot more that's interesting to know. The last is the total of the students’ financial situation – because a lot of students work a little side by side, and many get help from other teams as well. So it'll also be interesting to map. But the promise of a better funding for studies than that received in the previous eight years is solid.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e995	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e998	Knowledge is one of the pillars of a modern society. This is why research is gaining an increasingly central place in our society. We're getting more scientists, and there's more and more funding for research. In this budget, the bet we had under the red-green government continues, and it's basically good. Nevertheless, we should be able to defend the constant increase in money for research and the need for research to be applied. Of course, we should have curiosity-driven basic research as the basis, but the increased investment must have a purpose. The foreground has to be used. As a nation, we must become more attractive to it in almost all areas: companies, hospitals, municipalities, defence, police, welfare production, child protection and care for the elderly. Increased use of research-based knowledge combined with innovation and development will provide a better public sector and better value creation in our companies. Using research must also apply to our schools. Once upon a time, in practice in Norwegian school, a lot of faith was built on and little on research-based knowledge. As I experience it now, that's more like it should be -- the priests are working with faith, the teachers with documented knowledge. Not all research reports receive as much attention in the media as the PISA survey — not just in Norway but worldwide. This is probably the most well-known scientific work done, perhaps with the exception of the climate panel reports. If climate policy is demanding, the PISA report is all the more sensitive – to quote The Globe and Mail, a Canadian newspaper published in Toronto: ‘It’s PISA day, and the world is freaking out.’ A search in the world's newspapers shows that not everyone shows the accuracy that they should. Many people take up the PISA study badly, and this has led to a lot of concern. The fact that they take it seriously is both justified and unfounded. In Austria, there is great concern that they are well below the OECD average. In the United States, students also perform under the OECD section. In England, politicians owe each other poor results. The shots are concerned that the progress has stopped. Canada has a decline in mathematics, which worries them. Lithuania is alarmed and dislikes being after Estonia, Poland and Latvia. In Finland, they cling in their heads about what's happening to the big decline in mathematics. The Swedes are talking about setting up a school commission – they are deeply concerned. Malaysia is dissatisfied with being on the bottom part of the table, and wants to go up to the top third. And so we can keep going. We're also part of this ourselves, because we're dissatisfied with the mathematical results. In parentheses it can be noted that it is pure mathematics – the fact is that half must be below medium and half must be above medium. The goal for everyone must be something other than to climb up the table. It has to be better than the last time, that's progress. Being the best version of itself is an optimal goal for students and for a nation. A child who started school in Norway this fall will spend 7,800 hours on the school bench before finishing primary school. After that, from two to up to seven to eight years of education for the vast majority. It is clear that there is a great responsibility on us and the world's school owners to create safe, good schools, bully-free, self-developing, with the experience of mastering and increased self-esteem, the development of skills, the filling of knowledge – that everyone has the chance to develop the ability to acquire knowledge for the rest of their lives. We want all children in Norway to be able to do so, so that they will work well later. That's why the school is so important, so knowledge about the school is important, and so we have to bear in mind that we can be seen in the maps of a major international research project like PISA. But we're going to handle this research that we're dealing with all the other socio-scientific research, with caution. These studies also have methodological weaknesses and some reservations need to be made. And the NB, a lot that's important, is not being measured. Anyway, PISA gives us indications of what works. What makes you succeed? Countries that have invested in the teacher, including a better teacher training, do well. Countries that have introduced all-day schooling and that have gone away from level-sharing have made clear progress. Those who have cut out that students have to pass a certain professional level before the next step, i.e. Dump classes, do it better. In countries where parents follow their children closely, a clear positive effect is seen. An important finding is about competence in mathematics – whether you're going by skills or effort. In some countries that do well, typically Southeast Asia, they think that everyone can be good at math, only they work hard enough, because it's not about skills or inheritance, it's about attitudes. I believe that could be an inspiration to bring with me in the Norwegian math debate as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1023	In Norwegian school, we have a lot of good teachers who do one of the most important jobs in our society every day. They teach and engage the students, they take the job home and fix tests, prepare conference hours and do everything they can to see their students stretch a little longer every day. Norwegian school teachers have worked hard to implement the Knowledge Promise, which was adopted by the previous bourgeois government and was implemented under the Red-Green Government over recent years. An important part of this reform when it was adopted was to invest in continuing training of teachers. It was added to a continuing training plan that was ten times greater than in Reform 97, precisely because good teachers were to get even better. This was also followed up by the red-green government, which is all reason to praise them for. Unfortunately, however, the investment was not further expanded. Instead of continuing to increase the number of teachers to receive continuing education, the level stopped where the Knowledge promise originally did. The capacity for continuing education was not increased in higher education, and there was not enough money spent to allow municipalities to give sufficient priority to this. Slowly, but surely, the teacher’s promise had to give way to other proposals and measures in school as budgets increased. The promise of knowledge simply began to be traced off. Despite the fact that almost all parties agreed to bet on the teachers in the election campaign we have put behind us – and the Labour Party promised even to double the bet during this period – the truth came for a day when the Red-Green parties were to present their proposals for the 2014 government budget. It became clear that there was not a single new crown for continuing training of teachers beyond the level of the current year. When the Right-Fremskritsparte government presented its new school policy, they increased the budget for continuing education by more than 300 million. kr, compared to the red-green proposals. In retrospect, the red-green parts have also followed. It is good, but I record that the budget they had made themselves, and that would be adopted in this room if they won the election, did not prioritise money to increase. It's very positive that we in the committee now have a cross-political agreement to give teachers the promise they asked for, but the red-greens had to be in opposition before they could get that consensus in place. This year’s PISA survey showed that Norway has a real science problem. Although much is good in Norwegian school, it is such that we are hanging out in math performances. This is serious, not least because we know that the students' real-time skills are also linked to the drop-out statistics. The development of the group that scores 1 on the 10th stage exam has increased from 2.8 pst. Spring 2008 to 11.7 pst. Spring 2013. In higher education we know that 65 pst. by those who do not complete Vg1, delete in a math subject. This shows that mathematics is the main barrier to the implementation of higher education. That's why the new majority is doing something about it. In the public debate following the PISA survey, several have warned against having ‘PISA panic’. I agree, panic is never good, but it's just as dangerous if we get "PISA-pasifism", that we get so concerned not to talk about the problems in school that we don't take the signals and the results seriously either. That is why it is very positive that we are adopting a lot of measures today to lift the very real subjects, and especially math. The budget adopted today provides the municipalities with an additional incentive for continuing training of teachers in real-time. The state's share here increases to 75 p.m., so that even more real-time teachers get the continuing training they themselves say they want. The increased places for continuing training are designated as real subjects. This ear tag is still the red-green side. So they've joined us in several places, but they don't want to label the increase to what we know is the biggest challenge for the Norwegian school, the real subjects. In addition, national centres for real science are strengthened, and closer cooperation with industry is being developed through the National Real Science Forum. The right-wing Party government must therefore once again take the lead in school policy. Maybe the red-greens will come in a few years, as they did in the harvest budget process.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1051	Knowledge, innovation, technology, research and development is something we have always been good at exploiting in Norway. Yes, it has actually been absolutely essential for us to have the well-being and prosperity we have today. In a country with the highest costs and wages in the world, it is absolutely vital that this development continues, and that we become even better than we are today. As long as we're the most expensive, but the best, we'll be fine in the future as well. But then some of the signals we get and have received from tests, studies and also from employees and students in the education sector are dangerous. In fact, as the Minister of Knowledge said last week, so that we have a real subject problem in Norway, both in basic education and up the system. Both the Progress Party and the Right went to the choice of major ambitions for Norway. One of the issues that stood out in particular was the focus of the knowledge society. Where the Labour Party and the other socialist parties seemed to be a little set and satisfied, we had greater ambitions to realize the knowledge society. We still do, and this budget is a good start to that. The PISA results came last week. It wasn't very merry reading. Many of the countries that do it better than us are from Asia. But it's not that dangerous, say some red-green politicians and various interest groups. Exporting education systems is in any case difficult, it is said. I'm a little bit more worried than them. It is quite right that it is difficult to export systems from one country to another. Something that works in a country does not necessarily work in another country. But now Norway has one of the most internationally oriented economies in the world. What does that mean? Well, that means we're competing with the whole world, including East Asia. Everything we export has to be better than what the Asian countries produce, because we can't be cheaper. What's particularly worrying is that very few are able to solve the very most difficult problems in mathematics. This problem continues to flourish in the education system. We know that almost half of those who start engineering fall off, and we also know that the lack of technologists has increased dramatically. In 2005, we lacked 5,000 technologists, today we lack a place between 16 000 and 18 000. Universities and colleges are more internationally oriented than primary and secondary schools. And what's the UH sector saying is the problem? Well, those students who come in have too little knowledge in real science, especially in mathematics. It's serious, and that's among the main reasons why we're now betting heavily on that. It is, as I said, difficult to export education systems – that's okay. But it's probably a little bit about culture, too. What do other countries do to stimulate the very best? Fortunately, the Committee does not take too long to travel to Singapore. Maybe we'll see some of that right there. It's probably about far more than giving money to the state budget. Government rates on higher education. In fact, there has never been any more focus on higher education than what it does right now. There are many reasons why we do that, but the most important thing is, of course, that we should be the best equipped for the future and the competitive situation we are today and will be for a long time. Let me take an example -- maybe it's small, but it shows a direction: The government proposes to give 50 million. kr for the modernisation of the equipment park in engineering training in 2014. The government is taking seriously one of the most important advice from the NOCUT evaluation of education. If we are to make the wise heads even wiser, good access to functional laboratories and good workshops is required. Around one hundred scholarship positions, increased capacity in the UH sector to allow more teachers to take on- and on-the-job training, better and more support for students abroad and a strengthened NOCUT are other good and important examples. In relation to the government's budget, Stoltenberg's knowledge, school and education are one of the clear winners in our addition. The fact that the red-green parties are now coming running on proposals on proposals, I take as a great declaration of confidence to this government and, in particular, to this government's knowledge policy. Fortunately, there are many who also have the confidence: Hilde Wibe in Abelia says: ‘We have lighted with light and light after something negative, but we have rarely seen such a clear turn in the right direction towards more knowledge, research and innovation’. I would have liked to say it better myself, but I can't do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1080	During the launch of Horizon 2020 in Oslo last Friday, a point was made that Director-General Robert-Jan Smits in DG research had noticed the ‘sleep cut’ in Norway’s research effort. In his reply, the minister of knowledge pointed out that Robert-Jan Smits now had to forget this word, and the new word he had to learn was «change of pace». For now, the government announces a shift in pace in Norwegian research efforts, where efforts to develop Norway as a knowledge nation are intensified. Investment in research and development is central to the future competitiveness of industry. This applies not least in the marine sector. By means of the supplementary proposal, the government proposes to increase the investment for research by over 320 million. kr, compared to the draft budget of the Stoltenberg government. To succeed in the future, we must succeed in transferring research results to market results. The appropriations must be transformed into research and the results of the research must be transformed into new crowns. This is the government's recipe for meeting the Healthy Declaration's objective of increasing value creation in the mainland economy. The government therefore proposes a significant investment in nutrient research. To succeed in the future, we also need to invest in strategically important areas for Norway. The marine sector is just such an area. Research on technology, sustainability and new marine industries is essential to promote the growth potential of marine nutrition. This is pointed out in the SINTEF Report on Productive Sea-based Valuation in 2050. The report outlines the potential for a future six-fold increase in turnover in the marine sector, given that certain premises are in place. Increased investment in marine R & D is one such premise. In order to bring about changes in direction this government wants, we have in the budget for next year, among other things. reversed the Whitefish Industry Action Package. We want forward-looking measures to strengthen the profitability of the fishing industry. The Government considered that a number of measures in the Whitefish package weakened incentives for the conversion of the industry and helped to consolidate rather than alter the underlying factors affecting profitability. Quality, market research, live storage, technology development and sustainable aquaculture remain a priority in research appropriations. We're proud to propose a total of 55 million. kr more for marine research in 2014, compared to 2013. The funds shall include, inter alia: go to marine research, increased research on marine bioresources, technological development and market research through the Norwegian Research Councils. Through the Marine Research Institute and the Veterinary Institute, we strengthen the monitoring of the environmental impact of the aquaculture industry. And in addition, we're going to have a raise of $15 million. kr for increased monitoring of foreign matter in maritime food under the direction of the NIFES research institute. This strengthening is taking place at the same time as we are now carrying out the largest investment in marine research, namely the construction of a new ice-cream research vessel to 1.4 billion. kr. On November 29, I was delighted to see that the construction contract was signed. A new ice-going research vessel will be important both for environmental and polar research and for resource research in the northern regions. The vessel will be completed in 2016 and in regular operation from the beginning of 2017. There is no need to worry about resource research in Norway. The Marine Research Institute spends about 400 million dollars. kr annually for resource research and the evaluation of the Marine Research Institute in 2012 concluded that the Institute’s fisheries research is bottom-solid. Norway’s participation in Horizon 2020 will provide further opportunities to invest in research in the blue sector. At a meeting with the Portuguese Minister for Agriculture and the Sea in Lisbon on Monday this week, we discussed the possibility of Norwegian-Portuguese cooperation on marine research. Contact has already been established between the Marine Research Institute in Bergen and the corresponding organisation in Portugal. Like Norway, Portugal is a major port, and cooperation in this field will therefore be in the interests of both countries. The priorities set out in the budget for 2014 will contribute to increasing the profitability of the maritime food industry and to creating a greening for new important marine industries. Realising the ambition to make Norway the world’s leading maritime nation requires a long-term commitment to research. Marine research is continuing at a high level in 2014 but at the same time new research resources are now being deployed to help meet the challenges of further growth in the aquaculture industry. It surprises me that the opposition has criticised the government’s priority, and that it is not seen that this is the key to Norway becoming the world’s leading maritime nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1114	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1117	I would first like to thank the Minister of Fisheries for an article with many good points, and I also agree very much. She also has an involvement in the field. But it is possible that she now becomes historic, as the last Minister of Fisheries who takes part in the treatment of the research budget by Storting, because from the new year, the research budget and research and development departments are being transferred from the Minister of Fisheries to the Minister of Industry. It represents one third of the budget of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. Norwegian fisheries management has been identified as the world's best up to several consecutive times. The link between research and management has been crucial for us having the fish stocks we have and good management. The direct connection between resource management and resource research is now broken. I wonder why the government believes that the Minister for Fisheries is not the best fit to take care of this whole field – the link between resources and research, which has served Norway very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1124	I am very happy to get this question from the representative Martin Henriksen, because it gives me the opportunity to clarify what is obviously a misunderstanding. In the new Ministry of Industry and Fisheries from the New Year, we are two state councils, but we have one set of joint departments. That means I have the same access to and the same opportunity to be influenced and served by what is the new research and innovation department of the new Ministry of Industry and Fisheries. I believe it is a win-win situation that we are getting to this link now for a fishing industry that is becoming big, big industry in Norway, we are getting close to the instruments, we are getting a large and efficient research and innovation department, and we are not least getting close to trade policy, which is crucial for getting good market access and good trade agreements that are also building up under that industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1131	It seems that there has been no such link before and that former fisheries ministers have not been able to influence trade policy, innovation and innovation tools in Norway, etc. But, of course, you've done that. I have a comment and a question to the Minister for Fisheries regarding the commitment to research that she and other representatives here in the Chamber are making. At least as long as the Minister for Fisheries is the budget, there is an increase of 35 million. kr, e.g. Ten million. kr for technical effort in aquaculture. And it's made as an increase. At the same time, on the same budget, albeit in another committee, 34 million were cut. kr to marine value creation programme, which has been used, industrial technology development for a hard-wearing whitefish industry. While aquaculture is going well. Overall, we're going to get out with a net cut in this area. I wonder why the Minister for Fisheries believes that it is the nutritious measures of the industry that are struggling to participate in and pay for the research increase to an industry and an industry where the cash register is now hot.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1142	I give priority to research. We have also submitted a budget which means that the allocation to marine research has increased by 55 million. kr. It gives us a great and broad research effort in this field as it is today. White fish are being invested, they are being invested in aquaculture, and they are being targeted at environmental impacts. At all, research on the broad front is being invested so that this is an industry that we're going to do to raise it further. So, a six-fold increase in value creation in the marine sector does not come without a solid research effort. I really think it's quite bold that you stand here and criticize what's actually increased research budgets, while the previous government became most famous for granting a research rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1151	I hope we can stay too happy to stick to newspaper headlines when we're talking about the research efforts of previous governments. Let me repeat: the former government is increasing the research by 32 pst. real growth – 32 pst. That's 7 billion. kr more than when the previous civil government sat at the rudder. Just leave it to me. So for a follow-up of the representative Henriksen was in. One has to work widely for these exciting nutrients that the sea represents. Either it's breeding or fishing, the government tool is incredibly important. Then comes this budget, and one puts down the Ministry of Fisheries, one cuts heavily in the Directorate of Fisheries, and then comes a series of cuts on direct nutrition measures in the field, right enough from another committee, and then comes the small extra, which is happy, but which is taken from [[...]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1158	It's quite a good idea to merge the Ministry of Industry and the Ministry of Fisheries. It gives this industry new impetus, it gives it a close connection to a much larger innovation and research department and to a completely different device to analyse what are important basic assumptions for the industry further. There are no exceptions to the fact that there are additions to research in very many important areas. So this shows that it's cut -- a cut of 4 pst. in the appropriations for the Directorate-General for Fisheries. It is no more than one should expect that even in the state sector, one should be more efficient, working more effectively in their everyday lives. It will not affect what is the big, heavy stakes within the monitoring and within the control. We believe that we have made an arrangement for 2013 that takes care of the reasons that need to be taken care of if we want to build stone on stone – to build this industry six times as big as this house means, by 2050.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1166	When we're asked what we're going to live on after the oil, which is probably another time, then obviously seafood and the amazing marine biology are one of the answers. We see that this is an industry that has gone from being a traditional primary industry to a very research-intensive, very advanced industry, where this with new knowledge and the development of research results is absolutely essential. So we have a government that strips the Minister for Fisheries of the responsibility for research. My question is simply: does the Minister for Fisheries think that it is an advantage or a disadvantage to bet on this fantastic future industry that we now have a fisheries minister who is deprived of the entire research portfolio and who cannot make the perfectly logical link between research efforts, research development, research environments and the other fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1175	I must reassure the opposition and the representative Trond Giske once again that it is not the case that the Minister for Fisheries is being ‘stripped’ for research responsibility. In fact, the Minister for Fisheries is going to have the constitutional responsibility for research, for those institutes and for those bodies that are very central in the field of fisheries. So I don't understand where you get it from, that the Minister of Fisheries will also in future be equipped with the tools that are necessary to ensure that we have that focus and get it pressed on research and innovation in this area that are necessary to develop the industry further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1180	I thought I'd just hang on to representative Giske and ask the Minister for Fisheries if she thinks it is an advantage or a disadvantage not only to be deprived of responsibility for research funds, but that it is simply also cut off in research funds within the Agriculture Minister's field, and whether it will contribute to innovation and a robust and forward-looking agriculture in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1185	I understand that the representative Tingelstad Wøien and the opposition disagree with some of the arrangements made by the government in the research budgets and the arrangement for next year. Well, it's got to be. But I feel very confident that we both have a greater investment than the previous government, that we have an even better emphasis on nutrition research, that we are clear that we have important investments that we will realise in the years to come, and not least that we have a government platform that is far more ambitious than the one that the previous government had in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1190	How the cooperation is between the Minister for Industry and the Minister for Fisheries, I will not hide. However, when the Council of State just said that she could reassure the Stortinget that she was still constitutionally responsible for the research, I have to ask the Minister of Fisheries again whether it is the Minister of Industry or the Minister of Fisheries who will be responsible for what was previously the research department of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, and which must therefore be constitutionally responsible. The size can only relate to a state council at a time. How the Minister of Fisheries and the Minister of Industry chooses to cooperate, we should not interfere. However, as far as I have understood, it is quite clear that the Minister of Industry is now constitutionally responsible for the means of research and innovation, for example. maritime value creation programme, for which the former Minister for Fisheries was responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1199	It is, as I have already said, the Minister for Fisheries who is to be and who remains constitutionally responsible for the research institutes and for the research areas which are the key tools in the field of fisheries. So let there be no doubt that it is still the Minister for Fisheries who is going to have the full and the full responsibility to ensure that this industry gets the buoyancy it needs, and the amount of research it needs in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1204	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1207	Some have been reasonably tall and dark and have passed judgment on the school and the red-green school policy after eight years in government. This happened, among other things: a Tuesday last week. I agree that we are not on target. I agree that PISA shows that we have a potential to do it better, especially in the real world. We're going to take that seriously. That's why the red-green government has prepared the land after eight years in government. Because we know a lot about what's going on to make a good school. First of all, it's about the teacher. That is why we have put in place a permanent state system for the further training of teachers of almost 0.5 billion. kr. That is why we are also involved in the additions made to the supplementary proposal for continuing training. We've changed teacher training. The new teachers will be looking for a job next school year — teachers with more professional specialisation and more specialisation on a step-by-step basis. Teachers are the school's most important resource. Teachers shall be well trained and refilled. Here there's still a way to go and still a room to fill. So it's about starting early. That's why, after eight years of government, we've provided almost 63 000 more kindergartens. After eight years in government, there have been five extra hours in Norwegian, math and English at the first to fourth stages. Success in Finland has been a lot about starting early. However, the Finnish results are now falling. From research teams, it is explained that there was an economic decline in Finland in the 1990s, which meant that fewer children went to kindergarten than today. In Norway, we reached the target of full child-care coverage in the previous ageing period. This means that in future School Norway, significantly more children will have gone to kindergarten than before. Then it's about a good physical learning environment. For this reason, after a total of eight years in government, we have arranged for 1 300 schools to be refurbished using the interest-rate compensation scheme — a better working environment for teachers and students, a good prerequisite for learning. So it's about a lot more. That's why, after eight years in government, we've made sure that the students have been offered homework, introduced more physical activity in school, invested in the cultural school class, and at the top of the whole given students a pear sometimes. For a bulb, students do well – just like for example. employees of a department. We've been committed to the nursing care, we've signed Manifesto against bullying, we've set up emergency teams, and several teachers have been trained in classroom management. So we see from the PISA study that the learning environment has improved. There's been less anxiety, but there's still too many people who experience being bullied. Last week's public debate underlines a strong Community virtue for combating bullying. I think we've all been in a situation where we've known, but not done enough. That's what we have to end up with – as a friend, parents, aunt, neighbor or teacher. A tall and dark Right-man said Tuesday last week – and I'm not talking about the Minister of Knowledge – that the Right-Fremskrit party government has made a significant contribution to school policy. If the significant change is about taking away students' hours and benefits for the first time in order to finance school interventions, I agree that at least there can be a significant change in practice. However, there is little disagreement about the measures to which it is redistributed – worse is where the money has been taken away. We in the Workers' Party have other things than tax cuts on the wish list for Christmas. That is why we can afford pears, apprentice grants and math credits. For the school it actually becomes a positive bet, a bet that will produce results. But what worries me is if the parties are serious about the significant change in school policy that is actually in their party programmes – privatisation of the common school and grades from the fifth grade, to mention something. I'll wake this up like a hawk. Let's do what we agree on, what we know works. Norwegian school is too important to do anything else. We're on our way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1228	Recently, the Statistical Central Bureau presented the report «Forecasting demand and supply of laboratory by education». It shows demand and offers for 20 educational groups, where they are compared. Not surprisingly, we have a clear need for more skilled workers if we are to meet future growth and take advantage of the many opportunities offered by our long-term country. At the same time, the trend is confirmed that the number of people entering the labour market without completion of secondary education is decreasing. It therefore clearly shows the need for us as a society to succeed in the 13-year-old school cycle. One of the greatest challenges of our time, therefore, is to reduce the drop-out rate in higher education. It is regrettable to see that this year's implementation survey, for the second consecutive year, shows a decline in the number of young people completing secondary education within five years. With the last depressing results of the PISA study fresh in memory, in key subjects such as mathematics and natural sciences, there is a lot of evidence for a need for a new course in education policy, when we all know that the drop-off starts a lot earlier than in high school. One of the main objectives of the Right-Fremskrit party government is to realise the knowledge society. Then, as politicians, we must give priority to the most effective measures. We need to ensure that high school students gain the necessary basic skills from primary school. Early efforts and the teacher's promise to the government are crucial if we're to succeed in creating a school where more people complete and exist. But we also have to put into the measures where we know that they have the greatest effect. In secondary education, about half of our youth choose vocational education. There are many good young people, but still only complete 15 pst. of the annual coal with a professional competence. Every year there are 6,000 students without a place to study, while we know that every third enterprise is considering taking in a learning course. It is therefore very gratifying that we have finally received a government that takes action and starts a real bet on the professional subjects. In addition to the teacher's vow, which is also of great importance for higher education, we are now receiving an extension of the grant to companies that accept apprentices, while also receiving a start-up grant of NOK 50 000. It's an important contribution to getting more of the businesses off the fence and into learning businesses. In addition, the system for the professional correction of the common subjects is strengthened, so that we actually get 900 more teachers in the common subjects – with a follow-up and professional correction of them. The policy letter scheme will be strengthened by 10 million. kr – as a recognition that the ordinary course of training is not appropriate for all, while at the same time it is possible to take professional letters later along with the exchange model, which is reinforced by 5 million. kr. It allows more people to gain a more vocational and practice-related education and training cycle. And not enough: Strengthening the hosting system means that more teachers — and schools — can get their knowledge of the latest in the professions in which they teach. The budgetary process in the last few weeks must have been a demanding exercise for the red-green. Only after they have come to the opposition will they choose to jump after the bet on, for example. teachers and the professional lift of the Right Party Government. During the financial debate, they were irritating to tell us in which wrong direction this budget agreement takes the country and what cold society is being created, then jumping after exactly the same schooling, with one exception. It is very strange that what the red-greens do not choose to prioritise is just some of the measures that are aimed at those at the back of the queue to get a place to learn. Unfortunately, it shows how far it is between words and actions of some in this room. The right-wing Party government’s bet on apprentices in need of special organisation shows which lots see individuals and facilitate a school where more people are given the opportunity to complete and pass. We have a government that will build the trust society, a government that will build society from below and that has confidence in individuals and the community, and that will realise the potential along our long-range coast – a government that builds the knowledge society. Norway can never compete on wages, so we must build the trust society where things are solved at the lowest possible level. We need to become a knowledge society where everyone contributes with their professional skills, so that we solve things smarter, better and more forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1251	The size can look back on two major periods in which church questions have been central. That all the parties gathered around a church settlement in 2008, after Norway's largest group work, as former Church Minister Trond Giske has called it, is historic. It is therefore an overall committee that welcomes the fact that the government will continue to pursue a policy that is in line with the agreed church settlement. It is important that the Norwegian Church be maintained as an open, nationwide, democratic and inclusive people's church. Faith, religion and vision of life play an important role in Norwegian society, both for the community and for individuals. In an increasingly multicultural society, dialogue and fruitful coexistence across cultural and religious differences will be closely linked to individual knowledge of their own faith and religious identity. The Committee believes that the reform of religious education in the Norwegian Church is important, but the training of faith and life views in other religious and life views should also stimulate identity building and understanding of one's own culture and traditions. Knowledge and security in relation to one's own view of life are a prerequisite for tolerance and respect for the faith and outlook of others. Church buildings are among the most important cultural historical buildings in the country, and the demand for maintenance is high. In addition, fireproofing of buildings is important so that irreplaceable cultural values are not lost. Therefore, it is good that the proposal of the Stoltenberg II Government to provide commitments for interest compensation corresponding to an investment framework of SEK 500 million is continued and supported by the entire Committee. Over to something completely different – and I'm going to Hedmark. This is not a good budget for my home country. I could have raised a lot of issues in other budget areas, but let me just mention cutting funds for regional development, and that 31 state jobs in the Directorate of Economic Management in Hamar disappear to next year. The situation of a state like Gunnar Gundersen, the Right Representative of Hedmark, expresses great concern in all speeches and in the media, does not improve the budget we are discussing today. I refer to two issues: cutting agricultural research and stopping the start of the proposal from the Stoltenberg II government to establish a Bachelor's degree in archival studies at the University of Southern Trundelag, which was planned to be decentralised to Tynset, with the start of the 2014/2015 academic year. Nor does the matter get any better because the government is justifying the fact that the construction of the Norwegian health archive at Tynset does not start in 2014. This is a strange thing. First to the archive: this is a well-worked process that has been going on for many years, how important decisions have been taken along the way. The thinned municipality has had real costs, spent a lot of work on, among other things. land purchase, housing release, road design, regulatory plan, infrastructure, tendering processes, etc. Investigations are under way. KS2 is finished for Christmas. It is ready for construction start March 2014, ergo in four months. To quote from a meeting I had with politicians and business from the region: ‘Usageless and disrespectful to stop a process that has come so far. This should not be done by the State!’ So representatives of the Right and the Advance Party have said that this is about a mere postponement. But that's what I'm hurting to think, because why are you also cutting out 5.8 million? kr, which was proposed for archival training during the start-up phase? The establishment of the bachelor's study must be possible irrespective of the postponement of the construction project. We know that today it is undermining archival competence, both in the country and in the region we are talking about. We also know that it takes several years for the students to finish the study. It is therefore very unfortunate that the study is not currently being established in 2014. The only thing you can achieve is that everything is going to be more expensive, and there will be more costs for new investigations and processes. If that is not the case, as I strongly suspect, the government has simply planned to scrape the entire project. It is possible that I have poor memory, but I do not remember that at previous government changes it has been culture to start rematching on well-worked and close-up projects, as we see here. For Tynset and the mountain region north of Hedmark, there is talk of the creation of 80 state jobs – incredibly important for that part of the country. This is, to put it mildly, disappointing, and the fine words we have heard about the desired development also in the districts cannot possibly apply to the governmental parties and the cooperation partners of the Left and Christian People's Party. Finally, in the budget of the Stoltenberg II government, 1.2 million were earmarked. kr to the Nordic Association of Schools. This designation was unfortunately removed by the government, and it is supported by the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Norden Association, which is also led by the Olemic Thommessen High Court, was disappointed in the Committee’s budgetary hearing – in my opinion, rightly so. This is a pity for further Nordic cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1288	After eight years of red-green government, the change in course that we now see in education policy is high time. It is very satisfying to see that we have a prime minister who takes ownership of education policy and who is our foremost spokesman for quality in the school, education and research sector in everyday life as in election fighting. In a globalised world, knowledge, competence, students and workers often move across borders. This means that we need high ambitions to ensure that our children and young people are able to succeed in the future labour market and to ensure the labour market's necessary skills in the future. Anyone who knows the daily lives of our universities and colleges knows that if they are to succeed in future student recruitment, they must also compete with the best study offerings in our neighbouring countries, in Europe and elsewhere. This is what the education sector is today. I am pleased that this government is now presenting a very good draft budget for the education and research sector. The Right Party Government has been ready to support the development of world-class professional environments. That's a good ambition. Of course, a natural budgetary impact is a strong focus on participation in international knowledge development. The right-wing Party government strengthens universities and colleges by increasing the framework for the results-based redistribution of research funds by 100 million. kr. The increase will benefit those institutions which can show good results. I expect that this will also be positive for the best professional environments at our new universities. I also hope that the distribution of the 100 additional scholarship positions can help. The majority of the Church, Education and Research Committee has made it clear here that the new universities should be taken into account separately in the allocation of these posts. This will mean a great deal for the university and research environments, which have invested considerable resources and efforts to develop skills and guidance capacity without having been added to your two scholarship positions. I would like to highlight the promise that the government is now making to modernise the equipment park for universities and colleges offering engineering training. Here we've worked a poster after eight years of red-green rule. The right-wing Party government is now taking seriously the advice of the NOKUT educational evaluation. To ensure high quality engineering training, with relevance to working life, good access to functional laboratories, workshops and equipment at universities and colleges is required. Therefore, the appropriations in the year's budget for upgrades at NTNU are also particularly important. I also want to bet on the nutrition doctor. The extension of this scheme to public sector candidates is both long-term and well-forwarded. In this budget, the government will also strengthen the quality development of higher education, vocational education and recognition of foreign education and skills. Where the Stoltenberg II government put in $4.5 million. kr for the implementation of the ICT project in NOKUT, the civil government has proposed an intensification of this and has set aside an additional 9 million. kr in 2014. A new interaction solution for NOKUT will improve the efficiency of work and speed up the process. It will be useful for the whole UH sector. Finally, I would like to say that the students can actually look forward to better times with a bourgeois government. The last time the students had a real increase in student support – we have heard earlier in the debate – was under Kristin Clemet in 2002/2003. When our government now proposes to increase the student support by 3.65 pst. from August 2014, this is the largest increase of more than 10 years. During the eight years of red-green governance, the study support has been on-site rest and has only been adjusted with the price increase. Then I think in this budget round there's better one bird in hand than ten on the roof. This budget shows a clear and clear prioritisation of knowledge and shows that the government is serious when it says that the knowledge nation should be realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1312	Religion and outlook on life have an important place in Norwegian society and means a lot to many people. The government will pursue a belief and life-view policy that guarantees the right to free religious practice and equal treatment of religious and life-view societies. With its 3.8 million members, the Norwegian Church is clearly the largest religious community in Norway. The government emphasises a policy that allows the Norwegian Church to be maintained as a people's church with room for all. The relationship between the State and the Norwegian Church was fundamentally changed in the previous period of enlargement, when the Constitutional Law on the State Church Scheme of 1814 was repealed. With the constitutional changes, it is open to further independence for the church. The government believes that both society, church and state are best served with a clear distinction between state and church. Following the constitutional changes, there have been further reforms from the church to provide a clearer distinction between the church and the state. As part of this, the Church meeting in April adopted a recommendation to the Government and the Magnificent that ‘a national legal entity of the Norwegian Church shall be established as soon as possible’. The church meeting also asked for the transfer of the responsibilities of the priests and other members of the church so that they no longer belong to government agencies. In view of this, the Ministry has initiated an investigation into the transfer of employer responsibility for the priests and other church employees from the State to legally autonomous church bodies. In meeting the challenges facing a more independent church, I am very happy to be able to contribute to providing a historically good church budget. I am particularly pleased that in the 2014 state budget, we are completing the funding of the religious education reform in the Norwegian Church. With this year's budget increase of about 80 million. The total amount of funding for the training reform has risen to 315 million. kr. Ten years after the reform was launched, it was finally designed to enable all Norwegian churches to participate in this important reform. At the same time, there has been room for more appropriations to enable the Church to meet new challenges. The funding for the ICT church initiative has increased by 9 million. kr. The investment framework for government interest compensation for securing and refurbishment of church buildings is increased by 500 million. kr in 2014. It is also granted three million. SEK in grants for the creation of new slide shows and 2 million. kr in addition to the usual wage and price adjustment for the strengthening of the service. These increased appropriations for the church budget lead to similar increases in support for other religious and life-view societies and are in line with the principle of economic equality. New SSB figures show that the number of members and the number of religious communities outside the Norwegian Church is increasing, and now it now includes 550 000 members divided into more than 600 religious communities. From 20l2 to 20l3 was the increase of 8pst., the largest increase we have seen from one year to another since 2005. Now 2013: 1 Life-seeking society was presented in 2013 and has been at a wide consultation. The study discusses opportunities and challenges for an increasingly multi-religious society. The Ministry will follow up the investigation in the coming year. The development of a diverse society increases the need for dialogue. Being safe on one's own culture and knowing one's own religious traditions is becoming increasingly important in meeting a multicultural and multi-religious society. Dialogue promotes mutual understanding and respect for both common values and inequalities in society. As indicated in the budget, I will continue to support the dialogue work in the field of faith and life, both nationally and locally. As the Council of State in charge of the entire policy of faith and life, I would like to thank the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and not least for the thorough work done on the 2014 state budget. In this area, I would like to be concerned with finding common solutions that help to promote diversity, dialogue and fundamental respect for freedom of belief and life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1344	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1347	I'm going to ask a question about the Norwegian Church. It's about the Church being perhaps one of the most complicated organizations I've ever been away from. Employers' responsibility is shared, responsibility is shared between the state and the local authorities in many areas – both in ownership and accountability for many things, and also in budgets. In addition to this, we know that the Church has great challenges in that some congregations are getting smaller and smaller because of relocation, and some congregations are growing and growing larger and larger. This government – or the parties that have formed the government – has chosen to fight bureaucracy, to simplify it, to cut it here and there, and to make it more effective. What are the thoughts of the Council of State regarding the effectiveness of the Norwegian Church and its simplification in general? What thoughts has she had about sharing responsibilities with employers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1356	I think it's the first way to go through this great reform – the distinction between state and church – that there's a broad consensus in the Storting, I think it's very important that we trust that the church institutions, that is, the Church meeting, are also an essential part of the work to be done now. We're going to do our job considering the simplifications that are needed, and I'm going to be in a very good dialogue with the Church Council in that connection to get the signals that are important to bring. The fact that employers' responsibility for the priests and other church members is to be transferred to their own legal entity takes of course some time to investigate, but I think it is very important that this is done in cooperation with the church institutions we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1363	The training reform is described by the Stoltenberg government as fully funded in next year's budget. Now we heard the council repeat this. However, the allocation has only been adjusted for price growth in the period from 2003 to today, and not for wage growth, although the Christian People's Party in the negotiations has been able to make some compensation for the lack of wage adjustment. In my opinion, it is a bit artificial not to regulate salary growth when we know that the cost of training of faith is essentially compensation of employees. I wonder if the Council of State shares this view – whether she will propose in future budgets that the allocation be readjusted and that the lack of wage adjustment be compensated so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1372	I would like to thank you for this question, and not least for the fact that the work of the Stortingen in connection with the budget has also contributed to the fact that we have received more funding for the training of faith. Increases of 80 million. In 2014, it is precisely in the interests of contributing and facilitating the inclusion of all Norwegian churches in this reform. I think that's very positive. The question of further appropriations will be raised in the usual way and returned to the next budget. I want to stress that the government thinks it is very important to focus on this. In the government platform, we have said that we should continue support for religious training. I'm also going to contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1381	As I was in my post, many of our church buildings are important cultural memories that it is important to take care of for the future. Many of these buildings have quite a need for renovation, and it is difficult for municipalities to bear the financial burden alone. An example of this is Stavanger Cathedral, which dates from the first half of the 1100s and Norway's oldest existing cathedral buildings. To clean up this church, more good forces must be involved. The municipality must take its part – and the business community – and the state must be involved in this fissure layer as well. Can the Council of State tell how she sees that the state can contribute, so that we get a satisfactory renovation and refurbishment of such church buildings in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1390	First of all, I want to say that church buildings may belong to our most important cultural historical buildings. Of the country’s 1,620 church buildings, nearly 1,000 churches are identified as culturally valuable. I am very pleased that the government has said that we will contribute to a national pledge in the national security work of peaceful and protective church buildings. Which form this should be in, we'll have the opportunity to come back to. I also think it is very important to say that with the new interest-rate compensation scheme, the conditions are designed to improve the efforts in the repair and rehabilitation of church buildings. We hope that this can also help to ensure that the municipality of Stavanger, which has a particularly large responsibility for this, can help to ensure that the cathedral in Stavanger can also be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1397	I see that we have now been visited by many elephants, and this is a question about the elephants. The new government, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, has decided to introduce a new KRLE subject, i.e. a subject instead of RLE – KRLE – where Christianity should have 55 pst. of all education. This finding SV is problematic for many reasons, including: Is there a hopeless detailing of what to do in the hours that I am surprised at. But the second is that this will remove the teaching of other important things for which the minister is responsible. Then I would like to ask the Minister: Which area of the following would the Minister like to teach less in – respect, tolerance, family, children's dishes, bullying, racism, sex and sexuality, sickness, death or world religions such as Islam, Judaism, Buddhism and Hinduism?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1404	This with KRLE and what's going to be at school is the Minister of Knowledge who's responsible for and who's right to answer it. But then I must stress that where the Minister of Culture is responsible, there is a view of faith and life. At least we will ensure that the good dialogue with the different environments is maintained and strengthened in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1409	I'll continue a little bit where I left off on the previous theme, the Church. As you know, the period for the church settlement is over – it ended with the previous bigotry – so we are in a new situation as to how to deal with questions around the Church. What I'm asking is what kind of view the Council of State has on how, for example. this with its own legal entity and employer responsibility shall be dealt with against Stortinget. Is she looking for a dialogue with all parties here on the Stortinget, or is it just the Church and a very limited majority to decide whether to do what is about making the Church a legal entity and changing the employer's responsibility, and thus doing something that is contrary to the church settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1417	I'm familiar with the Church Meeting's decision to launch that investigation, and we're in the process of that investigation reform, that administrative reform, and investigating it. We are going to look at the consequences of the church meeting decision, and the matter is of such a nature that there are different instances to be heard before we can draw final conclusions in it. This applies not least to the church authorities themselves. But I will definitely come back to Stortinget with the matter when the time comes. It is very important to me that the broad majority who supported this decision are also informed, and that they are involved in the further process. That we're creating the consensus that has already been is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1424	I want to follow up on the question I started here instead. We live in an increasingly multicultural and multireligious society. Development is positive -- very positive. We're just getting a more complex society. But we have challenges when it comes to understanding each other and dialogue. This is an area in which the Minister has an important role, as responsible for the government's threat policy. In this way, what happens at the school on the side of the gun is very important and something I expect the minister to be deeply involved in, as it has been in the past, for example. The philosophy of religion and life was established. I can't free myself from that introduction of 55 pst. Christianity in this important subject will shift many areas in which it is important for students to get involved. Doesn't the Minister see the problem attached to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1431	As I said in my previous post, I believe that when it comes to following up the different views of life and religion, including what is involved in Christian understanding, it is the Minister of Knowledge who is responsible for it and will be able to answer that question since. But I would like to stress that the government is very concerned that we should, of course, facilitate the situation so that other beliefs than the Christian are given the opportunity to take place in the Norwegian community. I'm going to maintain good contacts with the different religious and life views at both national and local level in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1438	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1441	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and SV today propose that 11 months of study aid should be introduced during the ageing period, and I address this proposal. We believe that more investigations are not necessary – this can be carried out now. If the government decides that an average student will receive as much increased student support as one of Norway’s richest is receiving tax cuts, this debate will be over. But I want to talk about something other than student support today. If we're going to give the students quality and at the same time win the knowledge game, we have to be eaten. We have to offer our students an education that gives them the opportunity to be as good as they can be. It is the almost 250,000 students taking higher education in Norway today who will build the welfare community in the future, even after the oil well is one day dry. In order to ensure the diversity needed by students, employment, business and society, we need to have specialised schools, colleges, universities that together offer different educations with different methods and different educational pathways. Today it is largely up to the educational institutions themselves what they want to bet on. We now see, ten years after the quality reform, that a lot of people want to bet on the same thing. There is nothing wrong with it, but the question is whether we as national politicians should now consider giving a clearer, focused order from the state about what educational institutions should deliver. Our future prosperity depends on our success in creating industries and successful environments. We can't be the best at everything. We can't be the cheapest. But we can be smartest, and we can be world leaders in some areas. We already have companies and entrepreneurs who can take the step to the end of the world. Those companies do not aim to participate in the NM, they must win the World Cup — every single day. What we need to support them are more cooperation and environments that can build both width and tip. We as a nation are getting the best, and the students are getting the best quality, when the educational institutions work and agree on who should be the foremost in different directions of study. Then we have to ask ourselves how we distribute the resources. I believe that, as knowledge policy makers, we should discuss whether we should have a national plan for the best use of large, but limited, resources. It is a responsibility for all of us to approach this debate constructively and listening. I hope the Minister of Knowledge and the government parties are in on it, so we get to set a direction for Norwegian higher education that will stand in the future. Finally, to the debate: we knew that this debate was going to be a lot about mathlifting and training, but we may not have known that it was the Right Party and the Advance Party itself that needed both mathlifting and post-training. When it was said that there was no bet on quality under the red-green parts, it is proven to be wrong. In order to take one calculation that can even be understood by the Right Party and the Advance Party: In 2005, the State’s continued training effort was 20 million. kr. In 2012, it had increased to nearly 300 million. kr. A quick turn with the calculator shows a fifteen double. Overall, state support for skills development has increased to nearly 500 million. kr in 2013. In the Right World, this is no bet – up to 500 million. kr is not a bet. But from the first crown Right and Advance Party itself delivers, when they build on what the red-greens have come with, then all of a sudden they start to give quality. In the real world, it's not like that. In the real world, you can see that when Kristin Clemet left the State Council office, it was 20 million. kr for further training. When Torbjørn Røe Isaksen sat down, it was 500 million. for the development of competence. Teacher training is reformed, we have increased search for teacher training, there are 6 000 more teachers in school, there is an increase in hours in mathematics, Norwegian and English, 1 300 school buildings throughout the country are rusted up, etc., etc. It has not been a standstill! There has been a commitment to teachers, teacher training and school knowledge. It is not the red-green that comes after the Right and the Advance Party; it is the Right and Advance Party that is based on what the red-green government has presented over eight years – a promise of knowledge where we also stood together about a lot. The increase is joyous, and we're in most of it. But right-wing history and math skills are at a loss!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1462	The representative Martin Henriksen then mentioned the proposal he referred to. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1467	One of the major challenges facing us is the lack of advanced education and the challenge of recruiting more people for the professions. In the future, we will depend on even more skilled skilled workers who can build the country and improve our welfare state. Today, half of the students are applying for vocational education programmes, but there are only 15 pst. of the total amount of the student who completes the course with a certificate of formal qualifications or with a professional qualification. That's why it's good to increase the apprentice's grant, and I'm glad that a unanimous increase is in favour of it today, but we also need to facilitate motivation and mastering along the way and until the students go out into the apprenticeship period. For this reason, the Red-Green Government also presented its own big message focusing on vocational and vocational training. There would be more flexibility and more vocational training: we have a common vocational education system, we have a previous specialisation in the apprenticeships, and each country has a school to be a lighthouse for professional guidance. A new social contract has been signed with the social partners to provide more apprenticeships. The previous government launched the New GIV, which will be a national tool to increase implementation in higher education. In the last period, exchange models were set up to enable students to get out of the classroom in the past — and more often — to put theory and practice into context earlier in education. It will contribute to more learning and better motivation. In addition, we know that very many schools do not have the right equipment, so the previous government said that we need to start a national review of the equipment situation for the professions. I expect the new government to follow it up, and I am also happy to increase the equipment fee. I think it is very good that we have received a blue-blue government that continues our investment in professional and professional training, but the difference between us and the government is that we implement these efforts without cutting off other measures at school or increasing the use of oil money. The difference is that we can afford an overall effort in school. The representative Vinje from the Right said in the reply that politics is about priority. I think it's a little forward-looking to go to high school apple hoses and cut out the ambition of 11 months of study funding to finance billion-dollar tax cuts. I think it is a bad knowledge policy to do the right thing in kindergarten – because it is important for equality, the working line, freedom of choice and premature action. But choosing a tax cut is an honest priority. We just think it's a wrong priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1482	The Stoltenberg Government raised the issue of north-eastern policy as its main strategic area of foreign policy, and the Solberg Government underlines the importance of the north and the need to continue its efforts. From my perspective – call it a north-eastern perspective – north-eastern policy should be based on the first knowledge and competence building, second industrial development, then infrastructure and security and preparedness. Of course, these four elements are closely linked. The role of the competitive environment is particularly important in creating new activities in large sectors of growth, such as seafood, minerals, tourism, industry, energy and petroleum activities, as well as a more offensive climate policy. The government has indicated that during the autumn of 2014, a long-term research and higher education plan will be presented. It is essential that the northern regions are given a strong emphasis in such a notification. An overall commitment to knowledge, business development, infrastructure and security and preparedness is not a task for a single actor. If the Nordic perspective is to be respected, a North Norwegian stamp must be placed on the national Northern Region policy. Universities and colleges of the county must contribute to the setting of the Nordic footprint, and one element of this will be to ensure that the new universities have the same funding model as the existing ones. The concern I want to signal is that I fear that a bet in central areas in the north will be considered district policy. In that case, there would be an error from the government. What constitutes the potential of the nation is that the Nordic environments are given the opportunity to contribute to national policies. The alternative is to be the recipient of the common good. We from the north will instead be contributors – and preferably premiscuous suppliers. To achieve this, someone needs to think again – open up new ideas and open up to development and innovation. In this case, it is a political responsibility that rests on the government of Solberg. That's right now we have an opportunity. The contribution of North Norway to the nation must represent a political added value. Nord-Norway will deliver to the nation, and in order to achieve this, conditions need to be facilitated in the knowledge sector. The Nordic regions need to be considered as a knowledge base and political resource, and not just as a place of exploitable natural resources. This will downgrade differences between north and south, between north and west, and between east and west. It will bind the nation more together.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1498	This may be the last time that the Church, Education and Research Committee is responsible for the church budget. From next year there is a high probability that the Culture Committee has taken over this important responsibility. Much has happened in the church policy area in recent years. The church settlement has given the Church more freedom to govern itself, without political interference. The Advance Party believes that the Church and society are best served with a clear distinction between state and church, and we therefore look forward to the further work of giving the Church full freedom as a separate legal entity. It is the same freedom that other religious communities have. In a Danish saying, "It's better to sit on the inn and think about the church than to sit in the church and think about the inn." This is quite funny to say and really shows us that religion and the way of life have an important place in society and means a lot to many of us. It is therefore important for the Progress Party that the government's policy ensures the right to freedom of religion and equal treatment of religious and life-view societies. Even ten years have passed since the reform of faith training, not all communities have had the opportunity to offer this. The Progress Party is therefore very satisfied with the budget increase of about 80 million. Creed training kr. The ability of the churches to provide religious training is thus significantly strengthened. The Advance Party is also pleased with the other church appropriations that we have received together with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. ICT bet allocations are increased by 9 million. kr. The right-hand party government also provides 3 million. kr for the creation of new slide constellations. Furthermore, the majority has granted 2 million. In addition to the usual wage and price adjustment for the strengthening of the services, as we know is deficient in Norway today. The state grant for the important work done by the Seaman's Church, we've increased by 3 million. kr. Church buildings are among our finest and most important cultural memories. The Progress Party is therefore pleased that the interest compensation mechanism for securing and refurbishment of church buildings is in place again, increasing by 500 million. kr in 2014. The Progress Party is also pleased that the Government Platform makes it clear that the parties will contribute to a national commitment to the security work of peaceful and protected churches. We therefore look forward to the government coming back with a proposal to follow this up on a later occasion. That the K has entered the RLE subject, the Progress Party is very positive. Christianity is actually a major and important part of our cultural heritage. The majority of the population profess the Christian faith, and that's the most competenceal goal of Christian knowledge. It is natural and important that time use reflects this in the KRLE subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1515	The Church and other religious communities are important institutions in our society, and therefore it is important that these are given room to evolve, and that they get a good framework around their activities. Faith training is one of the Church's important tasks. The Stoltenberg Government states that the reform of faith training is fully financed by a grant of 302 million. kr. However, this allocation has only been adjusted for price growth in the period from 2003 to now, not for wage growth – despite the fact that the cost of training in faith is essentially compensation of employees. I am pleased that the Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) in negotiations with the government parties and the Left was able to compensate for some of this lack of wage adjustment, but there is still a gap that needs to be closed. I believe that we need to ensure that future appropriations for religious training are also adjusted in line with salary growth. I am also pleased that the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed to strengthen the performance service by 2 million. kr. The situation in the service is precarious in some places, and more resources are needed. This isn't very much money in this round, but it's a beginning of an escalation I hope we'll see. We have also agreed to increase the appropriations for the Church's ICT bet and the allocation to the Seaman's Church. We know that the Sjömann Church is doing a fabulous job among the Nordics who are staying abroad for short or longer periods, and this is a work I am pleased to be able to contribute increased funds to. The same applies to the Church's Resource Centre against Violence and Sexual Abuse, which receives an increase of 0.5 million. kr. Finally, I will mention a grant that I am particularly pleased with. We know that the Jews are one of the most discriminated against, violent and discriminated against peoples through history, and we know that there is still antisemitism in Norwegian society. In 2011, the Christian People's Party therefore proposed an action plan against antisemitism, among others. with awareness-raising work aimed at the school. I am pleased that in the negotiations with the Government Parties and the Left, the means were found to implement these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1532	The results of PISA show that Norway has major challenges, especially in mathematics and real science. Therefore, I am pleased that the government says that it will turn Norwegian school through a big effort on the most important thing for students' learning, namely the teacher. This is important at all levels — primary, secondary and higher education. But it's not just challenges in mathematics and real science. I think there is also a need for a change of mind and more knowledge among all teachers about entrepreneurship, and about how to get students and students to want to become entrepreneurs. Here Young Entrepreneurship is doing a good job, and that's how light is in the tunnel, and I'm glad there's cross-political consensus on this. But internationally, Norway is a lag in innovation, and fewer successful entrepreneurs, and few with higher education become entrepreneurs. We need to take a closer look at that. For example, at the Norwegian School of Economics, one of the leading universities in Norway, which educates civil economists; those who would like to become managing directors in their businesses, it is clear that it is only 1-2 pst. of those who leave school, who start their own business and become entrepreneurs. Are we satisfied with that? Looking at which education in Norway promotes most entrepreneurs, three professions stand out: hairdressers, dentists and veterinarians. A piece behind these comes therapists, lawyers, doctors and occupations in the construction sector. Master-level education, e.g. in economics, IT, psychology and science, promote few entrepreneurs. It's thought-provoking. But what is even more thought-provoking is the following hard facts: Norway is only medium-sized with a 17th place on Europe’s leading innovation index, Innovation Union Scoreboard for 2011. A whole seven out of ten new companies die before they become five years old, showing other statistics. In the Ernst & Young Growth Creator Programme, Entrepreneur Of The Year, the number of growth enterprises was halved from 2008 to 2011. This does not promise good for future jobs in Norway. Our neighbouring countries, on the other hand, are committed to the education and development of both entrepreneurs and growth businesses at the intersection of business and research and education environments. This may also help to explain why Sweden and Finland are at the top of this innovation index for Europe. Back to the teacher. I think it's a lot to pick up from the teacher's schools in mindmaking. Teachers and lecturers must signal that it is interesting to be a founder. There has to be a greater focus on innovation. The only innovative thing on, for example: Norway's School of Economics cannot be creative bookkeeping. This last one was jokingly meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1556	Student welfare has been brought up by several people here, and that's good. That the students are doing well while they are studying, and that they can study in a good environment and in a good professional environment, is very important to find motivation for further study, and to make it as good as possible. But the story of history told by the socialist politicians is not true. At best, it's unyanished. It is neither physically nor theoretically possible to reverse anything that has never been introduced. It is exactly zero – zero – crowns to 11 months of study funding in the 2014 budget from the red-greens. They've had eight years to implement an election vow all three parties agreed on. I've been bothering to see what they actually wrote in the government statements they made. In 2005, it stated: «Study loans and scholarships must be regulated in line with the price increase.» In 2009 there was nothing. Then it may not be so strange that the result after eight years of red-green policy is that the students have never had less in scholarships and loans when you adjust the purchasing power support. It may also explain that after eight years of red-green policy, the result is a real growth in study funding of 0.2 pst. It's pretty far away from 10 pst. It's actually 392 years away from the promise of 10 pst. We contribute the largest increase in student funding in ten years. Where the red-green budget had an increase of 1.7 pst, we have an increase of 3.65 pst. It's more than a double, and it's more than expected price and salary growth. We have also said this in the government statement that we will continue in the years to come. I think you have to go on your own and see what you've done or – rather – what you haven't done before you start attacking others. There's something about the famous glass house, the stone and the person sitting inside. That being said, there is a lot of good student policy in the budget that we can agree on across the party lines and ideology – fortunately. It's actually going to get improvements and increases. The increase in the number of student housing that is being built has been highlighted by the students as the most important thing for them. That's what we're going to do. This is important for example: to mitigate the price growth in the private market. Together with an increased cost framework and a higher grant rate, it will be very good. To approach the goal of that 20 pst. shall reside in co-operative accommodation, it is important and appropriate to continue to give priority to such work. In addition to a number of other measures, this means that, in total, students will be better out next year than this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1589	On 14 October, the student movement was won. Many years of fighting was crowned with victory when the red-green government presented its state budget. We increased the number of student homes. We introduced student support for first-year students in the United States, and not least we were in favour of eleven months of study funding. It's not true that this is something that has been promised for eight years. The Labour Party voted for it in 2009, and we implemented it in the last budget of this period. It becomes a little strange if the argument is that we should have done it before – which I would like to see done – but we did it now at least in the period. You first argue that we haven't done it, and when we do it, you criticize us for doing it. Our proposal was greeted with cheers. The students were the budget winners. But a few weeks later, a victory party was held for tomb beer. Because even though the Progress Party and the Right Party spent more than 4 billion. kr more than the red-green, they cut a full month in the study funding, among others. to cut taxes to the richest in Norway. Erna Solberg said that eleven months of study funding could be forgotten. The Vice-Chairman of the Young Right said to the student organisations that they should stop sewing, and most frankly, Tony Tiller, political adviser in the Oslo Right, who wrote in the Newspaper the chronicle «The students don't deserve another penny», where he said that «the students have a terrible cause for getting more public support». It is well against the Right Communication Strategy, where, as far as possible, you have to camouflage your cuts in well-being, but it is possible that there is room to be more honest now that you have won the election. In the Labour Party, we say the opposite. We tell the student movement that it's doing an important job, and that it's going to keep putting pressure on the politicians. With a blue government, more is needed than ever before. It boasts that there is a historical increase, but one should be good at spinning in politics if one can get a month cut to become a historical increase. The truth is that a proposal was made by the government, but that it was cut as drastically as it was this time. I'm glad that the Left and Christian People's Party has a great commitment to this matter, but it became almost a little comical when the Left asked the Minister of Knowledge whether one could expect eleven months of study funding in the morning after they, night in advance, had voted against our proposal and for the Right and the Advance Party's state budget, which prioritised completely different things. So they had got more left just by voting in favour of our budget, and it completely without having negotiated. It's a little bit of comfort that there's a promise to investigate, because what's it really going to be? No further investigations are needed. There is a need for action. But today you have the chance again. The Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have made a proposal that the Stortinget expects 11 months of study funding to be introduced during the period. When the government is so reluctant, pressure must be put on the Stortinget. We hope that the Left and Christian People's Party will join in fulfilling their own election promises and exert pressure on the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1604	We hear and read statements from the Minister of Agriculture. It shall be committed to agriculture. It must be viable and dynamic, and it must be modernised and simplified. In the Sundvolden platform, it says: ‘The government will create a viable agriculture by strengthening the potential for value creation.’ [[...]] And on the other hand, ‘Agriculture continues long food traditions and shall have as its primary task the provision of safe quality food. Norwegian agricultural production tolerates competition on quality from other countries.’ [[...]] With this in mind, can anyone in the government explain to me why they think it is a good idea to reduce the appropriations for agricultural research? In the change of line earlier today, I think the representative Vinje said that it was a misunderstanding that it was cut for agricultural research, but that it was to be invested heavily. A few minutes later, the representative admitted Thorsen cut for agricultural research, but Thorsen explained that the research funds should now be focused on what works. It would have been nice if Stortinget could get a more detailed explanation of what it is that works. In the supplementary proposal, under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, we can read about cuts in support of the Bioforsk specialist centres, that the Norwegian Research Council has a cut in agricultural and food areas, that there is a cut in the dissemination of knowledge about sustainable agriculture, nature diversity and pollution reduction, and that it is cut for the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research and the Veterinary Institute of Ås. Furthermore, the Norwegian Institute of Forests and Landscapes, which is working on knowledge development and dissemination of land resources, forests and landscapes, is being cut. And as if that's not enough, it's also cut off in the Food Authority's appropriations. At the hearings, the Joint Research Institutes arena said that cuts would go beyond research into new products, technology, conversion and efficiency in the agricultural sector. It would have been nice to know a little more about what Vinje refers to in what she has talked to State Council Listhaug about when it comes to the bet on this. And to the representative Thorsen, what's to be pointed at? I don't think very much about it in the proposition. Finally, the study support. In a line change today, the representative Nybø from Left Crystal was saying that the Left was for eleven months' study support, and the Christian People's Party is in the same street. In the declaration debate, Prime Minister Solberg called on everyone in this Chamber to vote for what they are in favour of, but today, the Christian People's Party and the Left must vote against what they are in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1627	Reasonableness and generosity in politics are important, and therefore I used the chance in my previous post to praise the red-green government for carrying out the teaching promise that the Knowledge Lift provided. That you spend 20 million. kr from 2005, is not very relevant, because a broad majority of this room adopted a knowledge-raising initiative such as this one. said that the efforts for continuing training of teachers should be doubled compared to Reform 97. It carried out the red-green government. I commended them for that. What is critical, on the other hand, is that it stopped there, and that, despite the continued growth of budgets, priority was not given to continuing to increase the budget for continuing training. It's a very interesting school scientist, known by many school politicians, named John Hattie, who has compiled a list from 1-138 of measures that create better learning in classrooms. In that list, then, all points from 1 to 10 are related to good, professionally up-to-date teachers. Item No 123 is nutrition. Our point is that it was a matter of prioritizing errors when the law was on fruit and not on the right and duty of the teachers to continue their training. It is also a bit strange to have to tell social democrats that politics and political choices have something to say for results. It is that when you don't raise those budgets, there won't be any more post-graduate teachers. The problem with the red-greens is that the budget that they themselves put forward, which they wanted to adopt, which would have been adopted in this Chamber if they had won the election, would increase continuing education by zero from 2013 to 2014. I was previously described as high and dark by a co-representative. I am 1.86 high and have dark hair, and this is an objective fact, but I was also transferred in the meaning of ‘high and dark’ when the new government presented its additional proposition. For there, a lot of work was done, both by increasing continuing education and by reducing the proportion of municipalities in continuing education and training so that several municipalities can afford to invest in it. Then it's a little too bad, for example. SV is not involved in this increase, because they say that they want to refresh and further train more teachers. Then they skip two big problems. One is that the municipalities do not have the capacity to prioritize it. That's why the state has to take a larger part of the bill. The second is that the red-green government has left itself a massive lag on the capacity to re-train and re-train the teachers. When you don't have that capacity, you have to give priority to expanding it. That's what this government is doing, fortunately. It is nice that the red-green representatives also commend the new budget and say that they agree with a lot. It can almost work as if they agree more with the supplementary proposal of the Right and the Advance Party than they were in their own budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1638	In order to ensure competitiveness and high productivity, our country needs good professionals in all parts of the world of work. It's important. At the same time, we all see that the biggest challenge we are facing in the school sector today is the drop-out, and in particular the drop-out in upper secondary education, with all the consequences it has for the individual's mastery experience and opportunities in life. This has been duly mentioned in the debate, but I would nevertheless like to take the opportunity to underline, as Kent Gudmundsen also mentioned in his statement, the considerable effort put forward by the government's draft budget in this area. 114 million. kr extra means a lot. It must be a cross of thought for the red-greens that there had to be a civil government to put an extra pressure on this profession. Increased apprenticeship grants, a new scheme to stimulate more enterprises to become apprenticeships and additional appropriations for training apprentices and special needs candidates, are tender tools to strengthen apprenticeship training. In the trade union in my home town, Kristiansand, a few weeks ago, we got very clear feedback that the government is taking a good step in the right direction. The same is true of schools and businesses all over the country. When the bourgeois government shows the willingness to prioritize this area, it is in line with election promises and announced policies. It gives confidence. In particular, there is reason to draw up government proposals for the 10 million. extra SEK in grants to enterprises which include apprentices with special needs. These are the most difficult apprentices to fit in, and they might also be the ones who need the most space. Another of the government’s proposals that have received good reception in school and in business is the proposed new scheme of grants for new apprenticeships. When one in three Norwegian companies is considering taking in apprentices, but for various reasons they have not, we see that incentives are needed. I myself have been responsible for apprentices in companies I have managed, and know that the threshold can be high. At the same time, we have good evidence that the drop-out rate among pupils with a place to study is dramatically much lower than among those without a place. Therefore, good incentive schemes are important for getting more apprenticeships. I have a great hope that this is an area that can be further developed in the years to come. This government's offensive investment in the profession will not be a moment too early.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1656	The debate now taking place in this Chamber is, in my view, one of the most important budgetary debates. Knowledge development and skills building are crucial for the future of the welfare society, whether in the health sector, the petroleum industry, the shipbuilding industry or the maritime food industry. Under the red-green government there was a growth in research funding in the period 2005–2013 of 6,7 billion in real terms. kr. Then also the TaxFUNN is included. This growth corresponds to a real growth of 32.1 pst. I heard the Minister for Fisheries mention this growth as a breakaway, and I must admit that I really look forward to following the government's commitment to research if a growth of 32.1 pst. is what then has to be defined as the government's rest pulse. The Minister of Fisheries himself started at least a minus in the field of knowledge and research. Right, as she also described, she has a plus of about 35 million. NOK, but when the negative is SEK 46 million. So the final result is going to be a negative of 11 million. kr. So even without real-time education, I did the math. But I also registered the line between the Minister of Fisheries and the representatives of Martin Henriksen and Trond Giske, and I want to give the Minister of Fisheries – despite seeing that she has left the hall – a chance to clarify who in the government has the constitutional responsibility for marine research. According to the State Council Protocol of 16 October, the Board of Directors of the Department of Research, Management and Administration of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has been added to the Council of State Monica Mæland. As you know, Stortinget is responsible to the person who is constitutionally responsible, so I would like to give the Minister of Fisheries an opportunity to clarify: Is it the State Council protocol that is wrong, or is it the Council of Aspaker that misinforms the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1665	I was Russian in 1991, two years after the wall fell in Berlin and the entire European map changed, both politically and geographically. This was the same year that the researchers in Bern – who today, someone wants to know, plunder with big bang theories – found the interface, that is, the expression, to the technology we know today as the Internet. So the year I finished high school, the technology that made my jobs possible in the last 20 years was invented. In 2009, over 160 000 people were employed in ICT in Norway. So we're going to train our children to work that doesn't yet exist, using technology that we haven't invented, to solve problems that we don't know about. The Minister of Knowledge has pointed out that we have a real subject problem. This is not just a challenge in managing Norway’s natural resources, for real science is not just for permanent engineers — for example. deletes nurses every year at simple medical doses. They can't do mathematics that's supposed to be at high school. Even I chose languages in higher education, but to communicate people to people today, there's a completely different language format we need to innovate, create and realize the potential that lies in human cooperation -- it's code, the communication between man and machine. This week rounds the voluntary movement Learn Kidsa Encoding's Hour No. 5000 with free coding for teachers and students in School Norway. This hour gives the students the opportunity to experience mastering and creating in problem solving, math, creativity and innovation, and that in a fun way. We're not going to be programming everybody, but we're going to use today's technology to create jobs that don't exist yet, to solve problems that we don't yet know, but also problems that we know about. For example, we can reduce CO2 emissions by reducing the number of cars on the roads, thereby reducing queues, driving time, road wear and accidents. The world over right now millions of people use apps to search for free space at someone who's going the same way as them. The State Road Service has calculated that if we increased the number of passengers in rush cars from 0,2 passengers to 0,5 passengers, it would correspond to the capacity of all public transport combined. So with the right means, it opens up unparalleled opportunities in transport and transport – learn kid coding. I find it a bit fascinating that during the entire campaign we heard about the fabulous progress that Norwegian students had made under the red-green in math, a claim that was concluded several times was wrong after the newspapers' fact-finding. Even more interesting is that now that the PISA results have come, they are not relevant. I'm glad that the red-greens, after losing the election, have resorted to a rhetoric that we really agree with school policy. Well, as long as it's this government that stands for the actual policy, I'm happy for it. It could mean that our children get to jobs that don't yet exist, using technology that we haven't yet invented, to solve problems that we don't yet know.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1681	It has already been mentioned from the pulpit that Prime Minister Erna Solberg in the debate on the throne said that in this Chamber you should vote for what you were in favour of. Today, we have made a proposal to introduce 11 months of study support during the current ageing period. Then it is interesting to know during the debate how the Right will stand for the vote on this matter. Will the party give the Christian People's Party and the Left the opportunity to vote for what they are for as regards actions that do not have budgetary impact in 2014, which do not need to be in 2015, but in the year the government chooses? That must be in the interests of the Left and Christian People's Party. The left has proposed 11 months of study funding ten times in the last years – that they include it in their alternative budget does not count when they did not get it through the negotiations with the Right and the Advance Party. Christian People's Party says in their program that they want 1.5 G in student support. This represents approximately NOK 30,000. They were negotiated approx. one tenth of it, with the right hand and the right hand. Now they have the chance to vote for what they're for. So I have to say that I think it's very interesting, and even a little bit surprising, that those who talk the most about fruit, are not SV, but Right. It almost seems that such negative attitudes to fruit and green in the school of the Right must end up in a kind of near-banan experience in the childhood – so strong an aversion seems to have right against fruit and green in school. But they're talking as if the cut in fruit and green should prove that they're betting on quality. No, it just proves that they're using the oil money -- $4 billion. kr more – for tax cuts, and not for school. The representative Asheim said that political elections have something to say. Yes, it does. That is why we have given priority to continuing training of teachers and raising knowledge at school. He also refers to school research. I think it's good if the Right wants a knowledge-based school policy. In this way they can, among other things: Listen to the advice of the OECD, which actually says that the most important right now can start thinking about school policy, is not implementing a policy for more private schools, grades and level-sharing, which researchers strongly warn against. The main Council seems simply not to implement the Right Programme – only implementing the parts agreed with the Red-Greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1690	If someone is looking at this debate from the outside, a little outside of Norwegian policy – whether you come from another country, or from another globe, I would say – it must seem a little strange to discuss continuing training as the major conflict theme. If there is something we have agreed on since 2005, it is that we should bet on continuing education. There has been unanimity in every budget since 2005 to invest in continuing education and training. The proposal of this government is also fully agreed on – and that will be the big deal. I think the Right very much want a debate on this to make it its trademark – because this is the only measure they have in school policy, and because of a narrow knowledge view. In addition, it is now the primary responsibility of municipalities, like all other employers, to provide continuing training for their employees. It means, as in all other school policies, that we need to have a good and solid community economy. In 2005, Norwegian municipalities were the starvation feed. A record number of municipalities were on the ROBEK list – they had very poor conditions under Erna Solberg as Minister for Municipal Affairs. So the first thing we did is add 5 billion. NOK, so that you could at least put in a proportion. Still, it wasn't enough. That is why we had to change the model of how continuing education among teachers was funded, by the fact that the state and also the teachers themselves took a slightly larger share of the funding. Before this, the places were not filled up. That we should have adopted even more hundreds of millions of dollars for a scheme where the money was just left unused, I don't think it would have been wise. Now we've been able to fill up the squares. Both the former Prime Minister, Stoltenberg, and the then Minister of Knowledge, Kristin Halvorsen, were clear that once the seats were filled, we were to fill up with more money. So let's do that. And we all agree on that. Then it'll be the big, big thing! I think that's weird. Besides, I want to make a comment to the representative Nordby Lunde, who claimed that what was said, that we had progress in mathematics, was wrong. It was not a mistake at all. We had progress in mathematics in the TIMSS study. We had the greatest success of all OECD countries when it came to the math skills of teenagers. We had the greatest progress in the Nordic region, and we were about the same level as Finland. What was said that was wrong was that we were in front of Finland. In pure numbers, that's right, but it's not significant. It was this check of fact that put them on. We have progress in mathematics among the youngest students. It is highly researched, and I don't think we should talk about that. The generation of children now attending primary school, especially between 1 and 4. steps, jobs and standing on. They have a fantastic good school — better than the one that has now been tested in the PISA survey. That's my claim.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1703	I want to praise the Workers' Party for their commitment to school policy. And now they're really going to bet. After the election, they put Trond Giske in charge of the committee. I'm sure it'll be fine. He left the basis for his committee chairman's existence in the debate on the NRK last week. Then he said it's something about this subject math, the way we teach, the way we follow up the students, and the skills that the teachers have. There are such demonstrations of power of insight that are needed to become the committee leader in the Workers' Party. The substance is to touch and feel. Then the question is, can it get better? Yes, it can. When the red-green government presented its draft budget, it was a typical education budget. Then the Right Party government presents its draft budget, and then the red-greens change their proposal to the education budget. Why do they do that? This is clearly because they cannot accept their original draft budget. Is it fluent? Yeah, but that's the reality. Nevertheless, Trond Giske and other red-green representatives perform to act as if we in the other parties should send thank-you cards and flowers for what they did when they were in government. I think we should spend a little bit of time on the realities. Our draft budget was larger than the original draft budget of the red-greens. I'll be the first to admit that money is not everything. But when we spend the money well, when we give more to the further education of teachers, to research or to a huge increase in student support, it's good that we got a new government. The red-greens have said that they must be a constructive opposition. That's good -- we need that in a democracy. My prayer to the red-greens is therefore: Be better! What we now have is a committee leader from the Workers' Party who runs after the government's budget, and who has no ability other than to talk about education in general terms. It is sad for the school, but it is also sad for the political development of our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1717	There have been several questions here about agricultural research. I did not get such a question in my questionnaire, so I thought I would address it now. The Ministry has an overview of the entire research budget. Overall, the increase in research was about 0.5 B.C.E. kr compared to the proposed budget. In the budget agreement in Stortinget, there were some reductions in agricultural research — about half of them. Thirty-four million. Two-bolks kr. Thus, there was not a general decline in research effort – there was a sharp increase here – but in the research effort that was below the Ministry of Agriculture’s budget. In the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left in Stortinget, there were 30 million. kr for agricultural research. In other words, this should not cause great concern. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you for a good debate. I didn't think I should say something that prolongs the debate, but simply saying that I think it's been a good debate. And I am glad that several people join the government's proposals on continuing education, apprenticeship and research. Of course, the government appreciates that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1726	First of all, the debate with the Minister for Fisheries. I can only note that if the State Council Protocol of 16 October is correct, the Council of State has simply misinformed the Stortinget. She stood on the platform and said that she had the full and full responsibility for the research area in the field of fisheries. That is simply not in line with the Council of State protocol. We need to clarify this during the meeting, because this is important. Then to the debate today. I am very pleased that the Minister of Knowledge at the end said he was happy to receive support for his proposals. It tends to be the government's attitude that if you suggest something and get broad support for it, it's positive. Today, it can almost be seen that the Right is a little disappointed that a total increase is involved in increasing the earmarking of grants for the further training of teachers. Let's also keep in mind that we're not talking about someone here having invented further education for teachers – we're talking about increasing ear marking. The right has largely used the election campaign to talk against earmarking municipal grants. We haven't been so demagogic and fundamentalist about this. We use earring where it's useful, and we're glad that the Right also sees that the tool they inherited there could be used even more actively. So to this with the money. If we had spent 4,000 million. kr more from the oil fund, from the legacy of future generations, I think we should be able to find a little more education than the Minister of Knowledge has found. That's what we're doing. We don't use oil money, but we use other estimates, increased dividends and money to increase the room for action, and so we also have more money for education. We carry out the further training effort without cutting the offer for the students. The Minister of Knowledge said that the cut in study funding in the 11th month is not a cut because it does not take effect until 2015. Well, then we have to believe that the Left and Christian People's Party is free to vote for eleven months of study funding, because it is also not a real addition since it has no effect until 2015 or 2016. We assume that with that logic, the Christian People's Party and the Left are now free to vote for what they are for. The right has driven some creative storytelling here today, among other things. on funding for studies, and has shown the great promise under Clement. Well, it was adopted against the Right's votes in 2001. Røe Isaksen had a rather embarrassing view during the Questionnaire, where he insisted that this happened in 2003. It did not, it happened in the autumn of 2001, against the voices of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. When Clement took over after me, we built 900 student homes a year. When she left the office, 300 student homes were built. The cost standard is frozen in the years when the budget was created – at least together with the Advance Party – and now the eleventh month of study is cut. What hurt the students have done Right, I don't know, but it's at least a consistent line to weaken student welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1739	This fall we see that it means something to the knowledge society that we have a new government. Firstly, it has real significance because the government is so clear on its priorities. It believes what it says when they say that they are going to realise the knowledge society, and there are concrete proposals for strengthening both at school, higher education, research and innovation. What also happens is that the red-greens come continuously after the teacher's lift and the professional lift. It's positive. They support under increased appropriations for continuing training, increased apprenticeship grants, increased vocational education and training, and the use of exchange models and more hospitability in enterprises for teachers. On 20 August, Stoltenberg and Giske Kattem visited the school in Trondheim with a billion lift for further training. The bet would simply be doubled, according to TV2. Then the budget comes, and it's just a continuation, not an increased budget. It is not strange that there will be a debate on this at the time. At the same time, I think it is striking that they do not support the proposal to invest 10 million. kr extra in grants to the enterprises that take in apprentices with special needs. These are the most difficult apprentices to find an apprenticeship for. The government is strengthening research by almost 0.5 billion. kr in relation to the outgoing government. This is clearly not something the red-green want to prioritise either. So it means a lot to the knowledge environments that we've got a new government that's offensively committed to research. The government is proposing 50 million. The aim of the government is to modernise the equipment park in engineering training in 2014 and Norway is to be among Europe’s most innovative countries. For this reason, the government has given particular priority to strengthening the industry-related research, including: increase the allocation to the User-Controlled Innovation Arena and to the Tax Fund. The Government also proposes to strengthen efforts in petroleum research, marine research, nanotechnologies, biotechnology and ICT. These are disciplines that are important to ensure the renewal and transformation of business and society. The right-hand party government prioritises value creation. When Stortinget joined the rule of action, a unanimous financial committee pointed out that investment in infrastructure, education and research is important to improve the functioning of the Norwegian economy. That part of the rule of action has not taken the red-green government seriously at all. When the government promoted its additional proposition, it was well received, and I have heard an incredible number of good words about it. I'll quote Abelia, who is mentioned here before, who said, ‘We have lighted with light and light after something negative, but we have rarely seen such a clear turn in the right direction towards more knowledge, research and innovation’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1754	It has been a creative debate, I would say. I started talking about creativity, and there have been many signs of creativity in this debate as well. Firstly, it has been a creative exercise in research, for example. Accomplishes Asheim to use the great knowledge researcher Hattie for what speaks for his cause, but does not take with him the things that speak very strongly against Right's way of thinking. On questions to Hattie about what can be better quality in school, he answers, in English, that better quality in school ‘is not going to happen with short-term interventions, by naming and creating, by more testing, by more accountability’. In addition, other researchers are moving in the same direction as the PISA hysteria, to which the Minister of Knowledge and Asheim contributed. In the NIFU report 23/2013, the pursuit of the quality indicators, it will be warned by researchers to overstate the significance of individual results and to guide by individual results: ‘When considering the sum of such performance targets, which include, inter alia, TIMSS, PISA, the national samples, local samples [[e.g. Oslo test]] Similarly, there are other school researchers who draw up the same theme. Shirley and Hargraaves are very clear in the book ‘The Fourth Way’, which has now come out in Norwegian, that they believe that testing and characterisation contribute to better learning is a technocratic blind track. The same is true of experience from Finland. This is mentioned in the previous edition of ‘Education’, where Sahlberg, who has been the leader of the Centre for Mobility in the Finnish educational system, answers that: «Finnish Lessons documents how Finland offered successes without going through the arcuous and controversial processes of implementing competition, school choice, and test-based accountability». We stand here in a situation where we have a government standing on the steps to introduce it as a pretty powerful wall of researchers and school people warn against. I think this debate has shown that no matter how creative a person is about the research, the answer from the field at school and from the research community is that the solution and the visions that the right side has for Norwegian school are wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1776	First of all, a short line to the representative Trond Giske. In fact, when the Right joined the government in 2002, the increase in the additional proposition continued. Here I think you have to relate to the correct history. What made me take the floor here today was the contribution from Marianne Aasen, who stated that there is complete agreement in the effort and strategy we have in the field of continuing education. It is, of course, nice – if it would have resulted in correctness. In fact, when the Minister of Knowledge of the Right took up the Ministry of Knowledge, an even greater effort was actually sought on the continuing training of teachers than was possible for the Stortingen in the supplementary proposal. There was simply no capacity in the system for the effort you wanted to put in place. That seems to me to be a picture of the planned strategy of the red-green government for which we would have the capacity in the future to meet the needs of continuing education in the school sector. Another thing is the funding system we have in the field of continuing education. Everyone knows that the local economy is tight. Although the additional proposition actually brings significant relief to the economy of the county councils, which is responsible for a lot of county roads, and where the pressure has been considerably eased from this government, it is once again that politicians have to give priority. And in the priority between health, roads and nutrition, it is sometimes difficult to reach the level of teachers that you want, that you have ambitions and that you want to achieve. The fact that you now have a self-financing of 75 pst. – and you know the teacher works 25 pst. In the course of further education — in reality, our government makes the local economy completely irrelevant in order to be able to invest in continuing education of teachers in mathematics and the natural sciences — subject on which the last PISA report also confirms the need to have an additional focus. I would like to stress once again that the ambitions of this government to build the knowledge society are great, and we are delivering through the additional proposition that is being debated today the Storing, which is confirmed by the budgetary agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1789	The red-green government has taken considerable action in the further training of teachers — from 20 million. NOK 500 million. kr – and – yes, there has been full agreement on this in Stortinget, just as there is now full agreement on the additional funds in the supplementary proposal. What it's not agreed on is how to prioritize. The Right Party and the Advance Party have taken money from students’ hours and measures to finance their own school activities. We didn't have to take from the students, we've done both because we prioritize knowledge – the entire student – rather than tax cuts, petty cuts in the students' extended school day and removal of the fruit. We vote for what we are for, and against what we are against, as the Prime Minister and the half-opposition have preached. In that sense, our budget priorities actually give more money to initial training – if that was the point. Jørund Rytman commends Young Entrepreneurship's efforts in school. Even I have experience with Young Entrepreneurship since I had a youth enterprise in the first class at Porsgrund High School. UB corporation was the company’s name. The business page was about organizing school ball and disco in the border area. It wasn't very successful, but it was very instructive. The point is that in Telemark – my county – a large proportion of regional development funds are just being used in Young Entrepreneurship. In Telemark, the government's announced cut in regional development funds is expected to be about Twenty million. kr. I fear what it will mean for just the effort the Young Entrepreneurship does in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1796	As I said in my previous post, the left is for eleven months' student support, and we also put it into our alternative budget. There should be no doubt that the Left will continue to work for 11 months of study support, but when we did not get it directly into the Budget Agreement with the Right and the Advance Party, we are pleased that we have received a point, where it says that a plan is to be made to increase the study support and the length of the study support. So this is something we're going to follow up on in future budgetary processes. I asked for the floor now because I wanted to briefly explain that because of this, the Left will not vote in favour of the proposal submitted by the representative Henriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1803	When the Minister of Knowledge presented the results of the last PlSA study, he was clear that we should not seek to maximize the crisis in the description of Norwegian school. There is no reason to exaggerate or colorize the use of language. The numbers' speech is ready, he said. For the numbers show that the results are not good enough. Despite this, many red-green politicians were provoked by the Minister of Knowledge's comments. Why? Well, because the Minister of Knowledge allowed the term ‘real science problem’ to be used to describe the situation in Norwegian school. I shall not mention that the representative Trond Giske used the same term in the debate at the NRK, without it seem to have upset the red-green politicians in a significant way. If our goal is to achieve mediocrity in Norwegian school, we have succeeded. Given the many workers' party representatives who have spoken from this pulpit here today, it may seem that the Labour Party is pleased with it. But shall we politicians lean back and say we are satisfied that our school is 'good enough'? I mean no. We must have higher ambitions for Norwegian school than being in the middle level among OECD countries. Through the election campaign, the Workers' Party was more concerned about talking about how Right Black Painting and Speaking Down Norwegian School, than even presenting new solutions on how things can get better. At the same time, they boasted of improved school results. The truth about the school results has now come with the PISA figures, but the Labour Party strategy seems to be unchanged. The only change I can see is that they now suddenly agree with the government that we need to spend more money on the continuing training of teachers. That's good. A representative from the Labour Party stood here on the pulpit today and rammed several of the countries that have participated in the PlSA survey, which made it worse than us. I don't know exactly what the point of that was, but I guess there was another attempt to show that we're not so bad here in Norway. The problem is that with the assumptions we have, it's far from being good enough. In fact, Norway has the third highest level of expenditure per pupil in the OECD. We also have a high teacher density compared to other countries. Despite this, we see a decline in results. Some have asked if the decline is a judgment on the school policy of the red-green government. I would rather say that the position of the red-greens has taken since the PISA figures were published is what is at the heart of their school policy. To be provoked by the fact that someone points out that Norwegian school is not good enough, says something about how low the ambitions for the school are actually in these parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1818	You get inspired. For first the representative Marianne Aasen was up and said that we should not talk down the fabulous progress that Norwegian students have had in mathematics, and that we heard about throughout the election campaign. But then the representative Knag Fylkesnes was up and said that we should still not read so much into the results. It's classic red-green: take the honour if it goes well, but when it doesn't go so well, it's not so careful anyway. I made a claim, and it was precisely that the claim that Norwegian students are the best in math in the Nordic region was taken into consideration. The conclusion is: "With statistics you can prove everything," writes Bergen's Official Journal. That was also said by British Prime Minister James Callaghan, and he continued: ‘ – also the opposite’. The study by Jens Stoltenberg shows that children at the fifth stage in Norway score higher than peers in Finnish children at the fourth stage in 2011. However, the authors of the report warn against drawing a bastant conclusion, and the sample of the ad hoc module on Norwegian 5th grade is small and not representative. In other words, there is good reason to problematize the claim that Norwegian teenagers are the best in math in the Nordic region. In this fact-finding, however, they evaluated the statement in the duel on TV 2 where they said Norwegian students are best in math in the Nordic region. That's wrong. Norwegian eighth graders score, despite progress, worse than students at the same level in Finland and Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1825	The representative Trond Giske has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1828	Kent Gudmundsen has obviously attended the same school as Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, but let's just get this straight: In autumn 2001, the Stoltenberg government proposed an increase of the scholarship share from 30 to 40 p.m. There were DKK 1 000 per month, with introductions from the 2002–2003 study year. It was completely reversed in supplementary proposition No. 4 for 2001–02, which was promoted 9 November 2001 by the new Bondevik government where Clemet was Minister of Education. In Stortinget, the Advance Party, the Workers' Party, the Center Party and SV forced this through, because we had a majority. The right, Christian People's Party and the left voted against, even after it was clear that there was a majority in the hall, and would retain the grant share of 30 p.m. It was introduced anyway. As a punishment, Clement did not make the study funding cost-adjusted during his period and thus reduced the student housing by almost 70 pst. Now let's talk about the future as well. It's going to be exciting to see if Right today is taking the opportunity to fix these earlier cuts by voting for an eleventh month during the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1836	The representative Kristin Vinje has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1839	It's nice to hear philosopher Knag County dangle around concepts like creativity and learning. But as a realist, I have to say that I am more concerned with concrete actions to strengthen the real subjects – and to strengthen the real subjects of the teachers. In the book of Erik Solheim, SV gets the hat fits, precisely because they have not been able to put the teachers in the center. He says that SV has weakened his credibility as a school party after eight years in government just because they haven't put what's most important, the teacher vow, in the center. That's very well said.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1846	The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1849	I think Right now has to decide, because they have a pretty creative relationship with responsibility. First of all, the last time, when it went well on tests, they took responsibility for it – it was they who had been behind it. But when things go bad, they run away from responsibility. They have to decide for some line here. Now they sit with the minister – they have to decide. Mi mentioning this PISA population with which the Minister of Knowledge and several others in the Right have been involved is that one has started a test – a test – while at the same time we have many other tests that we can also look at when we are going to decide how things are going in the Norwegian school. My criticism has been simple: you can't do hysteria or run politics on the basis of an investigation. You can learn from it, but you cannot assume it for any further policy. If it's very difficult to understand for right-wing politicians, I'm very concerned about how school policy can develop from here, because then it might be that a bet [[(...) (President clubs)]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1858	Now I'm worried that speaking time is over. The representative of Marianne Aasen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1863	I'm taking the challenge from the representative Bru, because I think what she was referring to was that I framed various countries and how they commented on the PISA study. My main point was just that PISA, TIMMS, PIRLS, all of these studies, are to be used with the utmost care and look at as research, which means that there are not always unique results, and that they need to be put into a context, which the representative Knag Fylkesnes was in. It also leads to this debate on the tens of years, which I think is really a good example of how foolish a school debate can be – in particular for all those who have taken part in the debate, and all those who take both honor and responsibility for it, including all Prime Minister candidates and former and present prime ministers. You have to be a little careful with that. Either way, the thing is that Norwegian teenagers are the best in mathematics, but you don't know it, because it's not significant. That's what the scientists say, and that's what's important to bring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1872	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2, 3 and 4 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1912	No one has asked to speak on the matter. Two, three, four.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1926	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 30 minutes, the Right 25 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to five lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and six lines with replies from members of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1935	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for its work on the budget of the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and chapters of the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. There has been an intense harvest of government change, intense negotiations and short deadlines. On the left, we believe that we have arrived at a budget that has a good environmental profile, which addresses the main challenges facing the country. For the Left, it is important that we have taken on board the cooperation agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the government parties. In particular, I would like to draw up some elements from there that have been followed up in the budgetary work. In particular, it is important that we have an agreement with the new majority that we should not have petroleum activity outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and the Senja during the next growing period, and also that there is no petroleum activity outside Jan Mayen, in the Skagerrak, off the Dark Coast and on the ice. This provides the basis for us to have a policy towards the oil and gas industries that means that we take into account other considerations than just the purely economic ones. This takes into account fisheries, classical nature conservation and also the need for petroleum-free zones, where there are other considerations that must weigh more heavily. In the cooperation agreement, it is essential that we strengthen the climate agreement in the period that is now coming. The budget includes many of the measures aimed at strengthening climate action in budget areas other than the Ministry of Climate and Environment and the Ministry of Oil and Energy. There are proposals to strengthen the mineral oil levy, to strengthen the electricity charge, to remove VAT on the leasing of electric cars, to strengthen Transnova and to significantly strengthen the railway operation. Together, this implies a green tax shift and a good estimate of the work we will have to do in the next four years to significantly strengthen climate reconciliation and work in Norway. In this unit, there is also a need to put in place, and there is a consensus that we should have, tax deductions for an increment measure. What's important is that we get this in place as soon as possible. We in the Left are very pleased that we now have a decision to work towards the state budget for 2015. It's important that we don't get too long a period here without a clarification, which can go beyond the industry that works towards getting an additional measure in place. As regards the capture and storage of CO2, the Left agrees with the government, and also the previous, the Stoltenberg government, that it is right to stop working in Mongstad. At the same time, it is essential that we put in place a full-scale capture and storage facility. I'd like to draw attention to the proposal for XIX, because there's two words out there. We need to have a dialogue on how to change it. It says we have to have full-scale fishing facilities, but of course it has to be full-scale capture and storage facilities. It is also essential that in the individual decisions that the government has to take in the future, it is always necessary to assume that we should take action in the climate field that is proportionate to the tasks facing us. If necessary electrification in the oil and gas industries, especially in the Utsira fields, it is important that the government follows up, so that we do not get unnecessary increases in CO2 emissions, which then have to be compensated for by other measures in the years to come. Here it is essential that we have a steady line. The cooperation agreement also provides for a permanent nature diversity law. Here the government has made a change – the left strongly disagrees – that they move the plan part from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of Local Affairs. However, when this is done, it is the responsibility of the government to ensure that the objective of the natural diversity law – through the conservation of biodiversity, the conservation of the cultural landscape – is respected during this period as well. And you'll be measured by the results you get. However, I would say that for the Left it has been important to get increments in place. Here we've been given increases whether there's a fishing barrier in Driva, there's a cultural landscape, there's a protection area, or there's a reinforcement of the red-listed species. Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased that, in the work of the Committee, some adjustments have also been made to strengthen ship protection, grants to the Outdoor Councils and... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1962	It does not imply an increase in speaking time, which is over. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1967	We've got a new government because the red-green lost majority, but we've got this government because the Left and Christian People's Party has changed their minds about the Progress Party. Four years ago, the Left's management said "even Jens than Jensen". Today half the government is filled with FrPs, thanks to the support of the Left and Christian People's Party. In the summer, Trine Skei Grande said that the climate policy of the Progress Party is not just «on another planet»; it is «in another universe». Today we have received a government where the Progress Party has the three most important environmental councils, with the exception of the Minister for the Environment, namely the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Oil and Energy. My question to the committee leader is how he, from a climate and environmental perspective, seems to have been responsible for having got a government where half of the state councils come from the Progress Party – or to use their own words: from another climate universe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1978	What's important to include as a starting point is that what left has driven a campaign on is a fundamental dissatisfaction with the climate policy of the red-green government. That is the state we have now had for eight years, on which we want to change, and what is now the starting point, is the new majority we have in order to achieve a strengthened climate policy. We mean by this budget and by the agreement of the Left with the government parties, that we have a good starting point and an estimate to just get to the necessary pace shift, in order to bring about a strengthened climate policy. What's important is here's the results that count. What we're going to measure is the results we get in four years. So far we've got far more than the red-green government has added, both over the last eight years and in the budget for next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1983	I note the total shift of the line in the Left's position on the Advance Party. So the representative Elvesuen says that they've got more through a collaboration with the Progress Party and the Right, but the truth is that most of the victories they've had in this budget are to reverse cuts that were in the red-green budget. It is good that they have managed to reverse part of the cuts, at least partially, for example. in the case of the rainforest, where they have been reversed, but they had nevertheless got more by voting in favour of our budget. I still want to ask questions about nature protection, which is an area where there is also a great difference between the Left and the Government, for example. in view of free movement and the Nature Diversity Act. Now we see that the government is changing policy without involving the Storting, by calling it an attempt or by calling it an interpretation. My question to the Left is, what will the Left do to get these things to the Storing, to make alliances with the rest of the opposition to keep the government back?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1990	What we have done, in concrete terms, is that we have taken an initiative towards the control committee just to find out whether it is possible at all to extend an attempt from the original seven municipalities to any municipality applying for a loan in the case of scooter driving. That's what we expect to get an answer to and assume, really, that this is going beyond what the law gives as an opportunity. Otherwise, it is quite clear that within the budget area, much can be done — and much needs to be done — to strengthen classical nature protection. The red-green government was not good at this either, there is considerable backlog in the necessary national investment in protected areas in Norway. One needs to do a lot more. So the left in the areas where we need it, will use the majority we can get in the Biggest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e1997	In various debates, and not least in the election campaign, we have heard clear predictions from the Red-Greens about how terrible it would be in climate and environmental policy if they lost the majority. The Christian People's Party believes that these predictions have been put to shame, and I would like to give the representative an opportunity to draw out specific issues from the cooperation agreement or in the budgetary agreement that the Left sees as positive – or in another way: does the representative believe that climate and environmental policy is moving in the right direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2002	First, of course, I would like to bring forward the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja, and also the other area where there is now no petroleum activity, which has been a major issue for a long time and where we have now been cleared up. Otherwise, I will insist that this is a good estimate for a new and more offensive climate policy, and in particular add that here there is an increase in the green tax shift. But it's an estimate. It is clear that it is absolutely essential to improve climate policy that the measures must be proportionate to the tasks we are going to perform. As far as the climate agreement is concerned, we are going to reduce Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by 5 million tonnes by 2020. This requires a completely different willingness not only to take action, but to measure their results, so that we achieve the necessary goal that is now there. We also need to strengthen the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2011	No batches are as much both in opposition and in position as we have seen from the left side this fall. In the budget for which the Left is committed to securing a majority today, the Planning Department is being moved from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of Municipal and Modernisation. It's, in isolation, okay that the left is on it. At the same time, however, the lot needs to stress in the form of a comment that this may lead to a deterioration for reasons such as: environment, nature and soil protection. My question is: Does the Left think it creates a stable impression of Left's policy when one first votes for something, and then – in clear order – departs from the same? And does the representative see that this can lead to unpredictability about what is the majority's line?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2022	I also think we're going to have predictability as to how much the Greatness is going to interfere with what is the government's internal affairs, and it's clear that when it comes to moving the plan department, we wouldn't have done it in government. We believe it is wrong to break up these professional environments. But now the government has done it anyway. I think it would be wrong if the Storting began to interfere with the individual disposals in a government, then there are many things it would be necessary to go into. Once it has done so, it will give the government a very special responsibility to show that this does not weaken classical environmental protection. Of course, the left will follow closely. We want to use the space we have for action – we have put forward proposals on soil protection, we have taken initiatives towards the monitoring committee on snowmobiles, and we will, of course, also use the possibilities that lie in budgetary work in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2027	I would just like to begin by congratulating the chairman of the Committee on Budgets on the first well-performing budgetary process. I would also like to stress that, on the SV side, we regard the Left as an ally in environmental policy. But I can't help but make an important point. When the chairman of the committee uses the term ‘standby’ in the last eight years, and that nature protection was not a priority, I feel the need to point out the following: when the left put in government, there was a decline in railway investment, there was an increase in CO2 emissions, while with us in government there has been a doubling of railway investment and a decrease in CO2 emissions – and on the nature protection side, we got the natural diversity law in place. But I want to address one question. That's what's going on on the one-off deduction. There has been an impact on the Left for some treatment, a review and an introduction. However, sees the left issue now that when there is no guarantee that this will come into place in the revised national budget [[The President clubs again.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2040	This is the whole basis – and we are pleased that we have a consensus – and an important instrument for precisely achieving the climate goals we are going to. But it is absolutely essential that this now goes as fast as possible, so that we get as small an interval as possible. So we agree on this. There is a consensus between the four parties that this should be put under pressure. Maybe that's one of the most important things we do in the year that's coming. So I would like to stress that for the left as for SV we have to be judged by the results we achieve. It's both parties that work against other parties, where you don't necessarily get an impact on your primary position, but you have to fight through the possibilities that you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2047	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2050	Let me also take this opportunity first to thank the chairman of the committee for the well-executed management of the committee through the budgetary procedure. Then I want to start something back in time. A little over a hundred years ago, Norway was one of the poorest countries in Europe. The footprint was then tamed, electrons were produced and values created. Concession laws were designed, the interests of the nation and the people were cared for by forward-looking politicians. Eternal values were to belong to the many and not to the few. During the industrial journey, the people were lifted out of poverty, and opportunities for each were increased. By transporting electrons around the country, people, businesses and industry received electricity, perhaps the most important input of our time in a well-functioning society. Our story is about building up community values and strengthening people's opportunities. From state power stations we established Statnett and Statkraft, and State power is now the largest on renewable energy in Europe. In 1965, for the first time, the Norwegian authorities granted concessions for the search for petroleum in the North Sea. In 1969 results were seen, and Ekofisk was the first field to be opened, in 1971, of the time Prime Minister Trygve Bratteli. In 1972, following a unanimous decision in the Stortinget Statoil, which is today the world's largest offshore operator, has delivered significant values to the community through its 40-year history and has activity in 34 countries and over 23 000 employees. When Norway's oil and gas history started, we had to import almost everything we needed. Today, the supplier sector is our second largest transport industry, after oil and gas. It is knowledge from Norway and Norwegian suppliers that currently has 50 pst. of the world subsea drilling and 70 pst. of the world market in seismics. In 1972, Trygve Bratteli was the first prime minister in the world to establish its own Ministry of Environmental Protection. Olav Gärevoll became our first environmental protection minister. We have also, through our close history, placed ourselves in the forefront of tackling major global challenges such as the environment and climate. Gro Harlem Brundtland, with the Brundtland Commission, has set its clear mark on the fact that today’s people must not consume at the expense of future generations. Jens Stoltenberg's participation in The Global Commission on the Economy and Climate is also a recognition of a great commitment over a long period of time. History has not shaped itself, it has been created through political visions and discussions and often brings strong contrasts – far from unanimous. Yes, even in our very near history, these historical lines have been discussed at a great distance between the political parties in Stortinget. The political majority in the last eight years have developed Norway's opportunities and sought to preserve the generations of the future in a perspective based on the success factors of our history. Enormous values and great opportunities have been created, not through the budget we are now discussing, but through the history of creating a framework for the budget we are dealing with today. What did we see after a few weeks of blue-blue policy orientation? What clarifications were included in the budget? The blue-blue value orientation was alarming. The major challenges of our time – climate and poverty – were the areas that were most deprived, for the benefit of those who have the most at home here. Selfishness, or glorification of its own, is an appropriate expression of such a political priority. Combating poverty in the world was down-priority through significant cuts in aid, reducing climate action vigorously. It was a value orientation we witnessed. The cut in the rainforest bet was perhaps the most serious, but cut in the bet at the technology center in Mongstad, cut in Gassnova, cut in Transnova and cut in the stake in renewable energy in developing countries, and this is a significant weakening of climate action from a government that says they will strengthen climate reconciliation. There is no evidence of increased climate action in the budget. So it's good that the Christian People's Party and the Left get to turn on some of this in the budget deal. But that does not give much credit – it is the parties that have established the government and that is the parliamentary basis. There is reason to be concerned about the signals coming in the budget from the blue-blue government. In yesterday's debate, Minister for Industry, Monica Mæland said that: ‘parts of competitive activities face high costs. Therefore, in the 2014 budget, the government proposes to strengthen the competitiveness of industry in both the short and long term.» On the other hand, she added that the government ‘contributes to stable framework conditions and an active industrial policy promoting Norwegian value creation both for 2014 and in the coming years’. I am most curious about this statement and this analysis. After the presentation of the blue-blue budget, the Commission expressed its opinion in particular on: Hydro-director Halvor Molland himself like this in the Haugesunds Avis on 14 November: ‘These sudden and unexpected changes in the framework conditions make planning for the future even more demanding. Large, long-term investments in Norway — as we have seen in recent years — are becoming more difficult to imagine. It was said after the blue-blue government had virtually ripped the floor out of the CO2 compensation scheme for the industry without insight into the sensitivity of the industry. It was a proposal which naturally aroused strong reactions, and which clearly revealed that the blue-blue government is not near to understanding the very demanding situation of the industry. Every day, our industrial environments are working to attract investments that secure the future. It is a demanding job, and many countries are competing for future investment. Good framework conditions and predictability are key words. Uncertainty was created, and all signals stress that the uncertainty is not gone, it is still there. I therefore believe that the Stortinget must have as a general political principle and as a political guideline that Norwegian industry should be subject to good, competitive and predictable framework conditions. Part of this will, of course, be that the CO2 compensation scheme is maintained as a fully-fledged scheme during the contractual period until 2020. It is good that the government is now in favour of our original proposal. But the challenge for the government is nevertheless to convince the Norwegian industry that they will maintain the good framework conditions that came into place under the red-green government. It is therefore absolutely necessary that the government parties themselves take responsibility for removing the uncertainty they themselves have created for the Norwegian industry, by voting in favour of our proposal where we clearly ask that the government should ensure predictability for Norwegian industry by maintaining a fully-fledged CO2 compensation scheme in the contractual period up to 2020. Unfortunately, I do not think there is a common will to ensure this predictability for industry by providing a guarantee. The blue-blue government guarantee should not go to important industrial workplaces around the country. The guarantee given by the blue-blue is only about enriching those who have the most. The budget proposal from the blue-blue government parties was a reflection where we got an insight into the value orientation the government is going to have over the next four years, a blue-blue value orientation where I think we're going to see in the continuation that aid is also going to be reduced, a policy where climate action and less climate exposure are being characterised, and where tax cuts to the richest are prioritised over security for Norwegian industrial workplaces. It's unsolvable, it's old-fashioned, and it's unpredictable to conduct such a policy. This is a value orientation I like very badly, and that violates our historical success factors. I am not looking forward to the future with the background of the signals and the value orientation of the blue-blue government in its budget. At the end of the day, I would like to address the proposals in which the Labour Party is co-sponsored. I would also like to inform you that under the setting C, II, we would like to be allowed to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2119	The representative of Terje Aasland has taken up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2124	We've heard a pretty good story about how energy policy has been in Norway in recent years. I hear how important predictability for business is for the Workers' Party. This government will present a comprehensive growth report on a comprehensive energy policy, in which both energy supply, climate challenge and industrial policy are to be seen in the context. This is precisely to create the predictability that business demands. The previous government never provided such a message, and it was actually the way those who tried were stopped yet. Does the Workers' Party still feel that there is no need for a comprehensive energy message?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2131	No, we don't think so, and we have said in our comments on the vote that we support such an energy message, because we believe it is absolutely vital that one gets to know how the government parties stand between themselves, and not least how their supporting parties deal with future energy policies. So far, the history of the blue-blue government with the supporting parties is just an emphasis on the unforeseeableness of Norwegian industry. So we're facing an energy message, so you can clarify the relationship between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2136	When one hears the article by Terje Aasland, where he talks about value orientation, cutting the rainforest rate, etc., one should not think that this budget is based on a large amount of work done by the red-green government – and there are minimal changes. The Climate and Forest Initiative was launched by the previous government during the UN climate negotiations in 2007 and is enshrined in the Stockholm Climate Change Agreement. The climate and forest project will also be transferred in 2014 from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Environment. In the 2012 climate and forest performance management audit, the Riksrevision has extensive and partly very critical comments on the investments there, referring to the absence of target and result indicators, the lack of reporting requirements and the lack of information on the Storting. Is the representative of Aasland and the Labour Party naïve to the wide-ranging problems of the bet, and does the representative feel that it is more important to pay out according to the level of ambition, or is it most important that the funds are actually used in such a way as to reflect a broad climate settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2147	Let me first say that I'm glad that the government hasn't made any more changes than they've made, because it could have even more dramatic consequences. I think there is enough drama in what they have proposed, with significant cuts in climate action, significant cuts in aid, and not least that they have made sure to create the unforeseeableness and uncertainty of the times for Norwegian industry. I am very happy that they have not been doing more weekgn through the weeks they have been in position than they have actually been shown up to now. Then we are for predictability. We're also, of course, to be measured and tested on the devices we're doing. We are concerned that the money we spend on climate change goes to good climate action – of course. What is important to us is that while we have that goal, we are clear that we are going to be predictable by maintaining the appropriations we have committed to give in international terms in terms of climate action.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2156	The last time an energy message was promoted for treatment in Stortinget was in 2003 at the Minister of Oil and Energy Einar Steensnæs in Bondevik II. Since then, various red-green government councils, such as Åslaug Haga, Terje Riis-Johansen and Ola Borten Moe, have put reports and energy investigations in the drawer. My question is then: what has changed fundamentally since the former Councillor Borten Moe left the office, and until the budgetary proceedings now in December, which means that the Workers' Party will now have an overall energy message that, according to the Workers' Party, will clarify uncertainty about Norway's future energy policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2164	I'll try to answer that very easily. That is because we lost the election and got an unexplained parliamentary situation about the energy policy of the future. And we want to get rid of that unforeseeable. That is why we believe it is right and important to get an energy message, so that you can clarify how the majority of Members actually place themselves on such an important issue for Norway as energy is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2169	First, I want to thank you for a good post. I noticed that the representative of Aasland spent a lot of time in his intervention in attacking the government's budget proposal. Many are criticisms I actually agree with. But then it's not the government's draft budget we're about to adopt. Apart from a CO2 compensation scheme that there is a broad consensus that we should have, I did not hear that new measures were requested by the representative. I wonder, does Aasland agree that the budget we are now adopting has a more offensive climate policy than the red-green government's budget proposal from the beginning of October?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2177	First of all, I'm very happy that the committee leader thinks there was a lot of good content in my post, and I think it's important point one to bring with it the story and point two relate to what we can expect from the government in the future. It should also concern the representative and perhaps the Left, in particular, in relation to what we have seen from what the government has chosen, and the value orientation they took in their policy when they came to the government offices, both in terms of reductions in climate action, aid, and not least in terms of creating unforeseeability for industry. So we have to choose to deal with the government when we're going to evaluate the next four years, and not what one might achieve through negotiations in the Storting. But I'm glad that the Left and Christian People's Party went the government in the right direction and, to say the least, has landed on our original starting point. Then there's something a little better, but basically I think the starting point from the government of Stoltenberg II was the best thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2184	I agree that the representative of Aasland had an interesting post, but I also notice that he spent little time talking about energy, climate and environmental issues. It may be relatively indicative of the attitude of the Workers' Party to the issues raised in the last eight years. The Labour Party has been at the rudder of Norwegian climate policy for the last eight years, to a large extent the last years on the basis of a climate settlement. That climate agreement is characterized by a promise of 30 pst. cut from 1990 level by 2020, but then it consists of a reference path and a type of quota buy-in which the reality is that the climate settlement can be achieved by cutting about 5 pst. of Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990, and the result is that we will then be 7 pst. above the 1990 level and not 1 pst, as we committed ourselves to in the Kyoto Protocol. Then the question becomes to the Workers' Party, which has now fired a lot: what has the Workers' Party intended to do differently in opposition to what you did in position in the climate area?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2193	I think it is very important that the Workers' Party should initially continue what we have done. We are in a time when greenhouse gas emissions are falling in Norway. We are in a situation where nine-time and long-term work from our representatives have also led to a significant international focus on climate action. That's the way we're going to keep going. We're going to build on what's in the climate agreement, and we're going to be involved in any reinforcements that might make sense in the context of the climate agreement. It is primarily on the government and that they have to come to Stortinget with a new big message about climate, so that we may be able to reinforce it. But so far there's no evidence that the government is going to be able to deliver, but we're going to have to wait and see. The working party shall be constructive in such a work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2198	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2201	Norway has unique natural resources that need to be managed and processed for the benefit of society and future generations, whether we are talking about flora or fauna, footfalls or fossil energy. The Norwegian petroleum industry accounts for a quarter of gross domestic product — one third of the country’s income and half of the nation’s export income. It employs one tenth of the workforce and accounts for one third of the value creation. The importance of the petroleum industry for the Norwegian economy is evident. It is therefore positive that there is a broad consensus on the Stortinget on the road further for the Norwegian petroleum industry. At the same time, the size of the industry makes us more vulnerable to fluctuations in the oil price than ever before. The long-term transition to a low-emission society makes it necessary to have multiple thoughts in your head at the same time. It is therefore positive that the government has so clearly signalled an offensive policy to strengthen the framework conditions for business in mainland Norway, among others. by strengthening road and rail investment, research and development, environmental technologies and growth-promoting tax incentives, but also by strengthening and integrating climate policy into all policy areas. Norway can never become a low-cost country, but we can strengthen our competitiveness by developing and implementing climate-friendly technology. Then we have to play with business and the knowledge environments. Green thoughts must be able to be translated into black numbers in enterprises. An active and strong business that creates values and jobs is not a contradiction but a prerequisite for solving environmental problems. This applies not least in the energy sector. Norway has a significant potential to create values based on renewable energy. The Swedish-Norwegian market for electricity certificates helps to increase production by 26.4 TWh by 2020, but if the power is to have a value, it has to be applied. Then there are three purposes that are particularly important. Firstly, phase out fossil energy where possible and appropriate. The ban on fossil fuel oil firing from 2020 is a good start, but we will also see increased power needs in the transport sector and in the petroleum sector in the coming years. Secondly, the organisation of new environmentally friendly industrial production. Thirdly, play a greater role in the supply of power in our neighbouring European countries as a supplier of balancing power in markets with a lot of sun and wind power. The new inter-national links with Germany and the United Kingdom will be important to achieve this. It is not just new renewable energy that is needed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Norway has technology, competence and capital to make a difference in many areas. Priority needs to be given to measures that can reduce emissions at home but also have an impact on the environment. Oil resources provide us with space for action to devote considerable resources to technology development, the conservation of rainforests, support for renewable energy and a faster transition of the transport sector. As a large petroleum producer, Norway has both a responsibility and a self-interest in developing a cost-effective technology for the capture and storage of CO2. Since 2009, the right has pointed out that there have been major challenges with the full-scale project in Mongstad and has clarified that costs need to be significantly reduced if realising is to be appropriate. We want the first full-scale CO2 capture and storage facility funded by Norway to provide encouragement and inspiration for other countries and actors – not to be left to fear and warning. If CO2 management is to be valued as an emission reduction measure, it must be possible to use it in the long term by more than the world's richest countries. The complexity of the CO2 management challenges suggests that it makes sense for the government to develop a new strategy for Norway’s work on this. Voluntary forest protection is a very important tool to meet our national and international commitments to halt biodiversity loss. The right has long called for increased appropriations for this purpose and is pleased that the allocation in 2014 allows for the collection of parts of the catchment area after the field was severely deprioritised in the first seven years of the red-green managed. The international forestry effort is also very important. The effort to reduce deforestation in the rainforest is an effective tool to reduce global greenhouse gas emissions, but it is also an important contribution to maintaining the biological tax base of the rainforest and the life base of very many people living in or out of the forest. This is why the Right and the other opposition parties at the time proposed – and passed – an international forest effort during the negotiations on the first climate agreement. It is very positive that the government has announced that the investment will continue until 2020. It ensures predictability for the recipient countries. So finally – let me say to the representative of Aasland's history: it was the opposition parties who, through two climate settlements, pushed the previous government to adopt a much more offensive attitude on climate issues. It's very interesting when the representative Aasland is now trying to represent it as if the Workers' Party was the driver, while the rest of us were the brake block. The truth is the exact opposite. I am pleased that the new government wants to pursue a more ambitious climate policy than the previous government did, because it is urgent to find a solution to the climate challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2243	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2246	The discussion about the climate agreement and who took the load, etc. I think we'll take on a later occasion, but we'll see if it won't be a parallel when – or if – the blue-blue government comes with a climate announcement to the Stortinget, where you want to strengthen the climate reconciliation. I want some predictability, because I have understood that it is a key word that the Right particularly likes to use in relation to business – i.e. predictability of the framework conditions, development of good framework conditions, etc. That's something we at least hear as a political mantra from the Right. Therefore, my question is: does the representative Astrup understand that the government's draft budget for the CO2 compensation scheme raised significant concerns for Norwegian industry, and that those concerns are still there, since it is not clear that there will be a full arrangement in the agreement period, until 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2258	I notice that the representative of Aasland is concerned with predictability – that is also the government parties. I expect the representative of Aasland to agree that even if you are concerned about predictability, it is possible to make changes to the tax regime, as the government of Stoltenberg did when it came to the petroleum tax – without hearing the same from the representative of Aasland. That being said, government parties are committed to having a predictable CO2 compensation scheme. I record that for a few days there was uncertainty as to the level at which it would lie, but I do not think there is any uncertainty about this now. The CO2 compensation scheme will be adopted in the form originally proposed. That is what this representative is very pleased with.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2271	The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is an increase in the appropriations for the cleaning up of poisons in the sea. The four cooperation parties have joined forces in government budgets in the last few years. 19 priority projects have been successfully identified and adopted locally with local sub-financing. For these projects, implementation may start if the State makes up its share of the funding. Then I ask: can we expect the government to give priority to the cleaning up of poisons in the sea in the future budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2279	I am pleased that the question is being asked. This is an area that was heavily prioritised during the red-greens throughout the period, with large reductions in the allocations for cleaning up lakes, ports and fjords. This is an area where there is a great need to do more. I am pleased that the government has already granted 4 million – after so short a period of time. to launch projects and to extend the mandate for the projects that may be ready for implementation to 182 million. kr in 2014. This is an area where I also expect the government to follow up, and already now the level of ambition has been raised compared to what the red-green government has been delivering in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2286	The Red-Green Government was committed to using the entire EEA-agreement space for powerful industry in Norway. The CO2 compensation scheme was an important part of this. In the case of power-intensive industries, the representative compared this earlier with the changes for the oil industry. I think it is important to be clear that the powerful industry is even more vulnerable to the framework conditions — and changes in them — than the oil industry. I listened to the answer given earlier in the reply, and I will challenge the representative again: Is that the representative said a guarantee that the government will ensure a full CO2 compensation scheme by 2020? Can the Right give industry such a guarantee?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2299	I expect that the representative Pollestad does not assume that I will tie up six state budgets in a reply in Stortinget, but what I can guarantee is that the Right and Government parties are very concerned about the framework conditions of the Norwegian industry. We are committed to strengthening the competitiveness of Norway, we are committed to ensuring that it pays to produce environmentally friendly in Norway, and we are going to facilitate it, I can guarantee it. These are good prerequisites for the powerful industry now. We're heading towards a significant surplus of power, we're expecting a significant increase in the environmental technology fund in Enova, we're investing more in infrastructure than ever before, and we're reducing taxes and improving the business environment. So I feel confident that we will have good framework conditions for the industry, and that it will flourish in the years that come under the blue government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2306	I would first like to thank you for a good contribution and a good review of the key areas in which we need to strengthen climate work, that is, today's budgetary unity, which I think is good. As far as classical nature protection is concerned, the representative Astrup was involved in what is called forest protection. At the same time, however, there is also a desire in the government parties – we have discussed the plan section, which has moved earlier – to move more responsibility down to each municipality. It's a discussion about scooter driving. It may also be in other areas. Then my question becomes: When you think about there are 429 municipalities of different sizes, does the representative think that there is good enough natural competence in each municipality to delegate more? Or does the representative agree with the Left that you have to build that competence before you can delegate more?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2320	There are certainly municipalities in Norway that could have better competence on these issues, but I record that many of the test municipalities that have been responsible for scooter driving since about 2000 are small municipalities, and they have been able to handle that responsibility in a good way. It is also important to stress that the regulation accompanying the experiment proposed by the government is very restrictive. This means that there are a lot of considerations to be taken into account – taking into account outdoor life, taking into account cabin occupants, taking into account nature protection, monitoring work that needs to be done, and, of course, it should only take place in marked, demarcated areas and runs where this is not a nuisance for others. This makes great demands on the municipalities – quite correctly. But if they can't meet these requirements, they won't be able to have that kind of scooter ride either.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2329	Strengthening the climate agreement has already become a spell in government circles. One of the things that has created uncertainty, and that was agreed in the climate agreement, was to provide renewable energy to electrify installations on the base. I can refer from one of the settings that lay from the red-green government at just this. I just want to mention one, and it's about the Gina Krog device at the Utsira height: ‘The Gina Krog device is prepared for power from land and shall be connected to any common power solution at the height of the Utsira at the time it is in place, unless the Ministry decides otherwise for special reasons.’ Would it be acceptable for the Right if the installations at the Utsira height were not fully electrified?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2341	We are dealing with the climate agreement, which was concluded between all the parties, except the Progress Party. It says it's an ambition to electrify the height of Utsira. We believe that it should still be. Then I have registered that there have been various signals from the licensees lately. I'm not familiar with the substance of it, but it's quite obvious that we're engaged in following up this point in the climate agreement, and I'm assuming that the ministry is also doing its job to follow up that ambition.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2348	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2351	Stable energy supply, whether fossil-based or renewable, is a feature of a modern welfare society and the creation of value in business. Therefore, the Right-Forward Party Government is committed to further developing the energy industry and to providing sustainable and good framework conditions for the petroleum sector and for renewable energy in Norway. Significant strengthening of petroleum exploration through an increase of 36 million. kr is a clear signal on it. The International Energy Agency (IEA) boasts Norway as one of the foremost in the resource-efficient and environmentally friendly way of extracting oil and gas. That is still a goal to be set for the Right-Forward Party government. At the OG21 conference, it was recently found that Norway is advocating oil exploration. Rystad Energy's report tells us that public promises for research and development within petroleum increase until 2007, then flatten them out, which actually means a fall as the cost of the petroleum industry increased over the same period. Access to research skills simply does not go hand in hand with the oil companies’ needs was the conclusion. Outside Europe, developments have been different since 2007. This is very alarming, and that's why the right-wing party government's bet is a very necessary grip for us to still be in front of an area where, among other things, the equipment supplier industry exports too much annually, plus the meaning it has, inter alia, for the extraction volume in the individual fields, to identify some important areas. On the renewable side, the certificate system is well-pressed, and the government's goal of faster case management is among others. municipalities are given responsibility for the concession treatment of small, micro and mini power plants. Energy saving and energy efficiency improvement have a high potential in households, in the public sector, in industry and in industry. Private households account for about 60 pst. of the energy consumption. Therefore, it is important that private individuals also have an incentive to invest inincreased measures. This was also taken care of by the government’s announcement of tax deductions for additional household measures in the context of the 2015 government budget. Then, finally, we have received a government that clearly sees the need for an own energy message, where one can present visions for the energy nation Norway after 2020, vision and strategy for value creation, for climate resolution and Norway's role in the European energy market, among others. The strange thing is that now the opposition has also seen the light and the need for such an energy message. From then on! So the Stoltenberg government lasted for eight years, even before it was able to conclude. Acts are not exactly illustrative of such behavior. Finally, a few words about climate change and carbon capture. The magnificence of the red-green government when it comes to full-scale betting in Mongstad is a fact, and it's important to recognize and learn from this bomb. The right-wing party government therefore believes it makes sense for the government to develop a new strategy for Norway's CCS deployment, by taking a step back and aligning itself with reality, while maintaining the objective of a full-scale CO2 capture and storage facility by 2020. There is broad agreement that this will be a costly challenge, and then it is important that a thorough job be done before deciding how to achieve the goal of achieving full scale CO2 management. Not least, Norway is in a position to use its resources correctly, rather than having high-level targets that cannot be realized. We see that there were many impatient voters who wanted a shift. They got it, and we're now about to change society through a government that wants to build its policies mainly on freedom, trust in individuals, families, entrepreneurs, the community and volunteering. I have to say it feels good to have such a value base.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2383	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2387	We're leaving behind an historic week. The reality has really turned on the Progress Party. Last week they voted in favour of tolls, on Tuesday they voted in favour of the NRK licence, and later today they will vote in favour of Kyoto 2. It's a pleasure day that the Progress Party has turned so completely around, when they went out before summer and called it pure symbolism policy. The representative Grimstad was given – I don't know if it was a grateful task, but at least – the task of defending it in the media. Then he said: "We have climate skeptics among us, and so it should be." My question to the representative Grimstad is: why should it really be like this? Why is the Progress Party still to be a party of climate skeptics, and is he himself one of these?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2403	I have to say that the question reminds me of the fairy tale of the emperor's new clothes. In the Progress Party, we have enough width in the party to allow us to ask critical questions to adopted truths. We also see that when it comes to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, not all of the claims made there were correct. Found itself in the argument to this panel composed of professors and researchers. All truths are good at being challenged, because it raises the level of knowledge. As far as I'm a climatologist or not, it's basically irrelevant. I allowed myself to ask when there are things I don't fully understand, and in particular I allowed myself to ask when there are many critical voices for a solution – it was like he did well, who said that the emperor has no new clothes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2410	The cooperation agreement states that the parties are to base their policies on administrative responsibility and on the precautionary principle. We must pursue an offensive climate policy, and we must even strengthen the climate agreement. It also states that renewable energy needs to be increased. My question to the representative Grimstad is: What will the Progress Party in the government do to increase the renewable share?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2417	As the representative Rigmor Andersen Eide says, the government has a platform where, as one of the measures, one will raise a matter of an ambitious and quantifiable national energy efficiency improvement target. We will also ensure that the time for concessional treatment goes down, so that we get more renewable power through the concessional treatment of small-scale, microchapter and mini-power plants by municipalities. Last but not least, this with the strengthening of the energy fund is also an action that will increase the renewable component. We see quite clearly that we have great and good intentions to increase that part in Norway. Focusing on this issue is absolutely important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2424	I do not think it is irrelevant whether or not the leader of the Progress Party in this committee is climate skeptics. The party of progress is one of two government parties. This is the basis of knowledge on which a policy should be based. My question is: does the representative believe that climate change is man-made, or does he not?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2431	At its last national meeting, the party of progress had a good and broad discussion on climate change, and we shattered the precautionary principle. We also say that humans are most likely to influence the climate. I as a fractional leader stick to what the party stands for, but I also stick to the agreement we have, and the platform that is negotiated between the Right, the Advance Party and the other two parties. I may not label myself a climate creator, but I still dare to challenge adopted truths, for it is not always that these truths are true.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2436	I'm not going to go into what some members of the Progress Party might think. I'm trying to stick to what parties do. The Progress Party is now part of a climate agreement with the agreement of the cooperation agreement – i.e. the strengthening of the climate agreement. Then my question becomes: When you agree to strengthen a climate settlement, does the representative agree that when you set an objective, you also have to be willing to implement measures that are proportionate to the targets, so that we get the necessary reduction in CO2 emissions by 2020 – which is reflected in the climate agreement and implicit in a strengthening?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2446	Yes, it's important to have goals, but then it's also important to establish, as the representative of Elvesuen here asks, the tools you need to achieve these goals. What we have experienced so far, and the criticism that, among other things, The red-green government got, was that one had a goal, but one couldn't get the tool to achieve these goals. The party of progress will be constructive and will be involved in further developing in line with the agreement of all these four parties, so that we can have the reduction that is in the climate agreement. We have also said that we need to strengthen it. I'm fully behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2453	According to what I've read in the Progress Party program, it's not like you're going in and out on international climate issues. On the contrary, there is a warning against so-called uncritical use of the precautionary principle where we are the others, such as the United Kingdom. The Christian People's Party and the rest of us, believe that we should use the precautionary principle – when it's more than 95 pst. climate change is likely to be man-made. But leave it, for I am moving on to the second part of the policy, namely oil policy. Since the representative referred to the IEA's latest World Energy Outlook, I think it is right to point out one thing: the IEA says that half of the oil and gas in the world must remain lying, and three-quarters of the coal must remain in order to stop the dangerous climate change – all the figures are approximate. The question then is: does the representative, who supports the government's view, mean that all Norwegian oil and gas should be pumped up? What other countries will leave the oil, if not the richest country in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2462	This is a strange debate in many ways. If the country that picks up oil in the most resource-efficient and environmentally friendly way is to be the one that cuts its production and leaves it to countries that have a significantly larger footprint in the environmental and climate context. The IEA recommendation was that Norway produces it from oil and gas as only one can. It is a goal for this government to maintain a high level, as we saw that SV also contributed, and also contributed. that one in 2012 had the largest investments ever made in this sector. We're not directly bored for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2469	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2473	The Christian People's Party believes that the goal of all policies should be to solve today's challenges without jeopardising the needs of future generations. Climate policy must therefore lead to other policy priorities. Climate change is global. Therefore, both national efforts and international cooperation are needed to stop them. Progress in setting up an international climate agreement where all countries are involved is slower than necessary. Nor did the meeting in Warsaw now in November, where several of us were present, imply the very great progress. There is a need for a significant shift in the pace of negotiations in the coming two years if the world community is to be able to address the climate challenges in time. The Christian People's Party has a vision that Norway will become a zero-emission society. National greenhouse gas emissions need to be reduced by 80 pst. by 2050. This is good news for our country. The Christian People's Party believes that the green shift can mean great opportunities for Norway if we are able to prioritise properly and work with the changes instead of countering them. The impact of the Christian People's Party in this budget and in the cooperation agreement with the Solberg Government will contribute to making Norway a more sustainable and climate-friendly society in the long term. Before I move on to the details of the budget, I would like to say a little bit about the cooperation agreement between the Christian People's Party and the Left and the government parties, which is leading the policy to be pursued over the next four years. The four parties agree to base their policies on administrative responsibility and on the precautionary principle. The development of renewable energy shall be increased. Cooperation parties will pursue offensive climate policies and strengthen climate reconciliation. It is agreed that no impact assessment or oil activity will be carried out in the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja during the period 2013-2017. No petroleum activity shall be carried out at Jan Mayen, the ice edge, the Skagerrak or at the Mortars. The agreement provides for the introduction of a tax credit for an increase in investment in the home and an increase in the yield of the eco-innovation fund. Greater emphasis is to be placed on public transport in large cities. The budget agreement in the United Kingdom underpins and strengthens the consensus of the cooperation agreement on several points. The right, the Progressive Party, the Christian People’s Party and the Left agree on the overall framework for an increase deduction in the common budget position and that it must be introduced as soon as possible, by 2015 at the latest. These four batches also agree to draw up a timetable for the increase in the yield of the Climate, Renewable Energy and Energy Conversion Fund in the context of the revised State budget for 2014. The budgetary agreement between the four parties represents a significant contribution to environmentally friendly transport. The appropriations for the maintenance of the railway are increased by 400 million. kr. It's set at 100 million. kr for the planning of intercity sections. That's $47 million. kr for the introduction of VAT exemptions on the leasing of electric cars. The appropriations for Transnova will be increased by 40 million. kr, e.g. to ensure progress in the development of charging infrastructure for electric cars. The Eco-Technology Scheme in Innovation Norway is continued with a budget of 30 million. kr to promote Norwegian environmental technologies in national and international markets. We are facilitating increased competitiveness in the Norwegian power-intensive industry by removing the proposed price floor of the CO2 compensation scheme for industry. The removal of the prism floor means an increased industrial effort of a total of 123 mills. kr. In this way, the Christian People's Party helps to prevent carbon leakage and the relocation of power-intensive industries from Norway, and we are facilitating the creation of new green industrial workplaces in Norway based on one of Norway's largest international competitive advantages, pure renewable energy. The budgetary agreement also means an increased commitment to nature protection. That's 30 million. to start work on the construction of fishing barriers in Driva, and the government's proposed cut in the allocations to protected areas, mountain governments and environmental organisations is reversed. An original red-green budget has become both yellow, blue and green.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2499	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2502	The budgetary agreement between the Government and the supporting parties, the Left and Christian People's Party, maintains the government's proposal to cut the subsidy for balancing net tariffs. That means families living in smaller places will get more expensive power bills. It is undoubtedly more expensive to operate the network in smaller places, and therefore, in addition to overcoming households, the down-priority will also affect agriculture and business. Is the representative comfortable with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2509	As the representative is aware, the Christian People's Party, together with the Workers' Party, stands in this note, and we share the same concern as the Workers' Party. It is not possible to put under the chair that there are many cut Christian People's Party would not be included in this budget, but it also makes us committed and eager to continue working together in the next budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2514	Through the negotiations between the bourgeois parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left, the Christian People's Party and the Left decided to make their wish to peace the Lofoten and the Western Pole. We know that this area has a relatively one-sided working life, and the hope of jobs related to the petroleum sector was watered down by that agreement. That means that this region misses the jobs a thought would come by that an established petroleum there. What does the Christian People's Party see as a result of alternative workplaces when these fall away?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2519	First of all, I want to say that I'm very happy that we got in place exactly the policy we now have, because if we don't exactly protect, then at least we're stopping the expansion in Lofoten and the Westphalia. We are very pleased about that. Knowledge acquisition shows that such an enterprise could provide 400–1100 new jobs. Probably those jobs would not even come to Lofoten, they would most likely come to Harstad and Bodø. There are 1,800 fishermen in the region, and we have a rich tourism industry in the same area. We see that the effect of strengthening both fisheries and tourism will give it manyfold of what the oil industry will provide of jobs in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2526	There are several things in this budget that are to be adopted today, which are hostile to districts. Smoothing network tariffs is perhaps the most obvious priority. So that's 120 million. NOK 30 million. kr. Nevertheless, one has chosen to take money from the power customers. There is a general increase for all in Norway of 0.56 øre. It seems quite unreasonable to take a very small increase from all customers, while those over 100 000 that have the highest network rentals initially, i.e. an increase in the price of 5-6 cents. Does the representative think this is good district policy, and why could not all network customers in Norway be involved and share in the bill by increasing the electricity charge?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2535	As I replied to the representative of the Workers' Party, we stand together in the comment on the harmonisation of collective bargaining agreements. We also did not want this to be reduced. We've been with the other parties for years to increase this in the budget, and we've also been with the Stoltenberg government on this matter. There are many cut Christian People's Party do not want to be there. But that's the way it is when you're a cooperative party and you don't have the influence you have when you're in government, like the Center Party has done. This is one thing we need to work on further in the future budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2542	I understand that from the SV we share the fundamental values of the Christian People's Party, which relates to both international solidarity, and what is about ensuring fair distribution and taking care of our globe. That is why I think it is right that the representative is so honest to say that there were many cuts in both this budget and other parts of the budget, which she really would not want. But then she has been involved in putting in this government, which has implemented these cuts to provide tax havens for the richest people in this country, and who have also tried to cut the budget on the development side. But I still had a question to her about one of the things she's not into of what we're saying in the opposition. Through this budget, the representative now agrees to slow down the work done on CO2 capture and storage, along with the rest of the government parties. Why is she?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2552	In terms of CO2 capture, we want this to be increased, but we see the government's need to take a break in thinking – after the gastric plaque we saw on the red-green side. So it might be nice to take a break and get some knowledge of how to work on this in the future. We are very pleased that we are going to have at least one CO2 capture plant by 2020 – so there, of course, the technology will have to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2563	Representative Andersen Eide underlines, very timely, the need for increased climate action, and there is no doubt that the Christian People's Party has the right place in climate issues. At the same time, the Christian People's Party is part of a climate settlement that has actually not had an effect – we buy allowances that do not work, and that is part of why Norway's greenhouse gas emissions have not fallen substantially. And the Christian People's Party is part of a government that has made it crystal clear that they will bet everything they can on further high oil companies. It is therefore in stark contrast to the need to wind up the oil industry long before it ceases to exist. And the question is: Will the Christian People's Party in Stortinget cooperate with the Greens on a systematic closure of Norwegian oil activities within the next 20 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2571	The representative has ambitious objectives and that is commendable, but the Christian People's Party cannot participate in the fast-track process of the Green Party. We want to have a restrictive oil policy, but to go as far as the Greens cannot, unfortunately, agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2576	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2579	I would like to start by thanking the Committee, the Chairman of the Committee and the Committee Secretary for a sound budgetary process, a three-stage budgetary process. The main feature of the position we have given is that the red-green parties stand together, that the majority parties agree on the numbers, but break the policy. It presents a challenge for predictability in this policy area in the future, and it is demanding for policy-makers. The overarching power of the Central Party in energy policy is repatriation: we need to ensure national and local ownership of natural resources, to benefit the community, and to contribute to growth throughout the country. Increasing renewable energy deployment has been a priority for eight years in government, and we have achieved significant results: we have a good funding system in place, concessional treatments have been speeding up, and network deployment is under way. It's a lot to enjoy, and we're on our way into an energy revolution. Then it's a little striking that what the new majority parties are most concerned about is not to say that 'now we're going to run on and continue this positive development'. No, one's most busy talking about a new energy message to come. My wish is at least that one does not slow down the investment in renewable energy pending this message. One of the main challenges in energy policy is that policy has been successful. That is, we've produced so much energy that prices are now record-breaking, and it's a challenge. Another challenge is that everyone is largely in favour of wind power – many are in favour of wind power, but against wind turbines. It's not related. In my own county, Rogaland, the Right has now set foot down for further expansion of wind power. That's very regrettable. Many things in the budget are positive, but they are definitely also many dark things. We have previously been on web rentals. The over 100000 network customers who already have the highest network rental shall be charged by the Progress Party – of all batches – with an additional 5-6 øre per kWh increment. It is the same party that got allergy from our proposal for an increase in the electricity charge of 1.12 cents. But for these 100,000 in the districts, there is clearly no problem between 5 and 6 cents per kWh. Oil and gas activities are important for value creation in Norway. 250000 jobs come from the industry and the centre party is behind the leaders of the oil and gas policy contained in the petroleum notification which was dealt with during the previous period. Increased extraction in mature areas and in existing fields is a central key forward. Climate is the greatest challenge of our time. New knowledge from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change provides us with both safer and more worrying information about the state of our climate. We look forward to new rounds in Stortinget by strengthening the climate agreement, and the Centre Party is set to contribute positively to that work. The centre party will take care of natural resources, biodiversity and different habitat types. We will take short and short care of the creation. But we believe that communities are best built from below. We must have confidence in local communities, and the state must play with local communities and not with local communities. Active use is best protected. We must have confidence that individuals and communities can both take responsibility and manage nature in a good way. Summary: A good red-green budget has first become much worse, and then – last round – has become a little better again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2605	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2608	The representative Pollestad has stated that he wants a thousand windmills in Rogaland. I believe the representative Pollestad and I can agree that we need more renewable energy in Norway and more wind turbines, but Rogaland is a state that until now has been granted very many concessions for wind power. 19 pst. of all wind power concessions granted in Norway are found in Rogaland, many of which in areas with high land use pressures and expected population growth. The representative Pollestad is also an eloquent defender of strong soil protection in Rogaland. My question to the representative is therefore: in the need to balance the protection of agricultural land, to limit natural interference and at the same time to secure the area of more dwellings – what will Pollestad give priority first? Will the representative Pollestad continue to wish for a thousand windmills in Rogaland if it leads to the degradation of agricultural land, and where, in that case, does he expect these to be built?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2618	At the entrance to the 1900s there were 500 wind turbines in Stavanger County. Thousands of windmills can sound very much, but then we talk about both large windmills and the so-called farm windmills. That's the room for in a state like Rogaland. Right, and the representative Bru, also assumes that all concessions are being expanded, but it is a fact that one must give considerably more concessions than one will achieve to be completed. These are market-based systems, and no one believes that all concessions will be expanded. As far as the conflict between windmills and soil protection is concerned, it is a little new to me. I think we have enough space in the county to expand windmills, and I think it's completely different from windmills that are the challenge for the food soil in Rogaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2627	The budget we are discussing today is based on a red-green government where the Central Party had the Minister of Oil and Energy, Ola Borten Moe, and they naturally had a hand on the wheel. In these days, there is a strong battle, among other things. on the oil base in Florø, where there's a rush over decline and reduced activity, and when one goes into the red-green budget, we see that here one chose to cut both in the Oil Directorate and in Petoro. The question then is natural: does the Centre Party and Pollestad want to reduce the activity on the base, with the consequences it will have to use – as he says in his post – the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2634	As I said in my post, we base and support the leaders in the petroleum message, An industry for the future. There is a message that suggests that there is still a great deal of activity on Norwegian soil, and of course we are concerned that this should have ring-fenced effects on land. We believe that part of the challenges facing the supply industry in Norway are due, inter alia, to: The EEA Agreement, which makes it more difficult to give priority to Norwegian jobs when fields are to be developed. With the Center Party, which is perhaps one of the parties that has had most oil and energy ministers, there has been a stability in politics. We have taken a long-term view, and we will continue to do that in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2643	I will present the same line to the Central Party as I did to the Workers' Party. The last time an energy report was promoted for treatment in Stortinget was in 2003. Then the Christian People's Party had oil and energy ministers, Einar Steensnæs, in Bondevik II. Since then, various central party councils such as Haga, Riis-Johansen and now recently Borten Moe have put reports and energy investigations in the drawer. My question is: What has changed fundamentally since the former Councillor Borten Moe left the office, and until the budgetary procedure now in December, which means that the Centre Party will now have an overall energy message that, according to the Centre Party, will clarify uncertainty about Norway's future energy policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2654	My answer is not different from what the Workers' Party gave. I am very pleased with the direction of energy policy in the last eight years. The main leaders have been in the Soria Moria declarations, from which it has been steered. Electricity certificates have been put in place, and the concession treatment has been speeded up. The web expansion is full of stuff. The necessary framework conditions are in place. It is true that there have been some plans back and forth, but the basics have been a focus on action and a shocking course. Now one sees the need for an energy message, and it is due to the fact that the country no longer has a majority government. There is a government with a parliamentary basis that cracks a lot on these issues. It shows the budgetary position. Then we believe that there is a basis for having an energy message that removes that doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2669	Thank you for the statement, which ended with the claim that a proposal by the government had improved at the time of the Stortingen reading and which is now the budget to be adopted. An important element of the change following the presentation of the budget to the Stortinget is that there is a significant contribution to a green tax shift. It's a big start to a green tax shift. There's something the red-green government has barely done in the last eight years. Does the representative Pollestad agree that a large and significant green tax shift is necessary in order to achieve the climate objectives we have set ourselves, and that choosing environmentally friendly – as it implies – is to be cheaper, but also that if you do not choose environmentally friendly, you have to pay more for it, as is the case with the individual user?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2679	The parties agree that there is a need to use the charges very actively to change attitudes. I believe that what has been done about, for example. Car taxes in recent years are a very good example of this. We wanted to add a larger increase in the electricity charge than it eventually did. I ask the representative to notice that I first said that a very good budget had become a bit worse, before something got better again. It hasn't been as good as the starting point. At the same time, we should be careful to extend this too far, because I see that one of the things that is set up as green measures in the budget agreement is cut into tunnel maintenance on our road network. That's to draw this a little bit too far in another direction. But overall, we need to use charges if we are to achieve our climate goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2692	Me and the Green Party fully agree with the Centre Party that the use of nature is a very important part of the administration, and that those who use and manage Norwegian nature are extremely important actors in this game. At the same time, it is undeniable that a massive amount of research, in Norway and internationally, determines that protection is also a very important element in preserving nature for the future. Therefore, Norway, by the government of which Pollestad’s party was part, has also committed itself to increased protection in Norway. Nevertheless, Pollestad repeats the Special Mantra of the Centre: Use is the best protection. What is the scientific basis for that claim?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2703	I think things are being dragged a little bit far here. The centre party also supports the use of protection as an instrument, but we must recognise that use, in a country like Norway, where people live, is also an important value, and it cannot be implemented if everything is protected. We are concerned that we should focus on what is the purpose of protection and how we manage it. There's not just one recipe for what's protection. There are many ways of implementing a protection and a protection process. In order to ensure legitimacy, it is important that the local population feel that protection is something that they themselves have in their own hands when it is determined and implemented — not that it is something that goes down. It's basically our attitude to protection. In many parts of Norway, active use is important in order to preserve most of the nature we have. Sheep grazing can be one example of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2714	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2717	It is all for the Right-Fremskritsparte government to be a disaster for nature in Norway. They have to open up more construction in the beach zone. They shall allow for more intervention in a non-interventional nature. They're going to open up scooter rides, so that there's less quiet nature, which has triggered noise-rich and the biggest signature action I can remember since the protests against the construction of highly polluting gas power plants. At the top of it all, one has got a cut in the supervision of the trials that are now under way. In the budgets, we see that they cut in the clean-up after mining and mining, and rather spend the money on facilitating more mining activity. I would like answers from the Minister for the Environment on whether she will be as clear as our Red-Green Minister for the Environment was against mining landfills in Norway's beautiful fjords – some of them just off national salmon fjords. Not only has the Minister of the Environment been deprived of responsibility for plan decisions and overall planning responsibilities under this budget, which is one of the most important instruments of governance to protect the environment and nature, but last week we were also able to hear that the Minister of Energy said bramlessly that the nature diversity law, for which he is not responsible, but for which the Minister of the Environment is responsible, is being too rigorously practised and has to be reviewed. In addition, we saw that the Environment Minister wanted to cut the rainforest conservation, which would also weaken the international efforts to take care of the world's most beautiful tax chamber, which is in the rainforest. When I read that the Christian People's Party and Left were beating their breasts over the cooperation agreement with the Right-Fremskritsparte government and were very pleased with the environmental aspect, I stunned, because it was so obvious that nature was the loser. We have got a better environmental budget now than what the current government presented to the Stortinget, but it should just be missing. I think it is good that there are new approaches to helping people with an increase even if they have created a completely disproportionate situation in the industry by noting it, but not implementing it at the same time. It is good to have both an electric car tax exemption, a train tax and a paradox in that the Progress Party is enthusiastically voting for both a fuel oil tax increase and an alcohol tax increase, but it is hardly the case that the overall budget is moving in the right direction. In the election campaign, Prime Minister Solberg spoke about the doubling of the economy, but when the government provided the budget, the effort was made to increase the use of oil money to finance tax reliefs to the richest, it was to flag full gas in the oil sector and cut in support of other industries even if the Progress Party and the Right in the election campaign promised the opposite. As far as climate is concerned, the International Energy Agency says that half of the world's oil and gas areas must remain in place if we are to achieve the objective of preventing dangerous climate change and that much more of the coal must remain lying. Then, in my opinion, it is irresponsible and deeply unsolvable to say that any country other than Norway should cut its oil extraction. Economically, in addition, the Holden Committee believes that we should slow down the activity. The expert committee of our leading economists says that we cannot launch a large-scale gas policy, such as that. be submitted by the Minister for Oil and Energy. Oil investments replace other investments. In the oil sector, wages and salaries are growing in other competitive industries and are reducing competitiveness in the long term. The world is plagued by dangerous climate change and is desperate. Norway is hit by Norwegian sick people. That's why we can't give full gas to the oil, but we can start the descent instead of increasing in the years to come, and I think that the oil and energy minister has to take over. I'll take up one thing at a time. Uncertainty has been created by both Statoil and the Minister for Environmental Protection about electrification of the platforms at the Utsira height. The climate agreement has ambition for electrification, and the red-green government and Ola Borten Moe made everything possible for electrification through the decisions that were taken. This is a question that the Minister of Oil and Energy can decide for himself in relation to the companies. My question to the Minister for Oil and Energy is: Will the Minister ensure that full electrification and the distribution of financial burdens are required, so that we can do what is absolutely necessary to achieve Norway's climate objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2749	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2752	I would first like to thank the representative Eidsvoll Holmås for very pleasant days in Warsaw when we were there during the climate negotiations along with the rest of the committee. Poland is an EU country and, like the EEA country Norway, has undertaken obligations under the EU Water Directive. The inclusion of the Water Directive into the EEA Agreement provided for a financing plan which has not been followed up by the Red-Green Government. It's piled up a big aftertaste. I've heard figures of about 300 million. kr since 2008. The Fremskrit Party Government has begun to intervene by granting 15 million. kr extra for this purpose in 2014. My question to the representative is: Does he think SV has been sufficiently concerned with the water quality of our watercourses for the eight years they have been in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2759	I think we've done a lot of good for water quality. I believe we have done a great deal to ensure that we take care of nature in relation to the water sources we have. We have also carried out a public investigation that looks at how climate change will affect precisely the need to regulate water management and how rainfall will be distributed. So, yes, I mean we've done a good job with this. It's clear that we're now facing huge audits in the various hydropower plants we have. It's probably about 300 different terms and conditions audits to be done. In this context, it is clear that it is important to strike a good balance between nature and the environment and the need to ensure that power is produced.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2766	The company Rock Energy, with offices in Norway, uses drilling and production experience on a Norwegian base in the development of geothermal energy. Geothermal energy is essential for the Philippines. It is essential for the local population to be supplied with electricity and to reach it as well as essential for the proper functioning of emergency work. Does the representative of Eidsvoll Holmås still believe that the Norwegian petroleum industry is taking life in the Philippines – after eight years with a Minister of Environmental Protection from SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2773	At the Warsaw meeting, the head of the World Meteorology Organization was very clear when he said that climate change, among other things. has led to higher levels of water in the area around the Philippines, making the Philippines much harder hit by the storm that was there. In addition, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change states that it is likely, ‘likely’, that there will be stronger storms as a result of climate change. What's special about climate change is that it doesn't matter where the emissions are on the planet or what it is that has caused them. They will in any case help to create the same kind of destruction and in the same way take life. Norway, of all the rich countries in the world, is the country at the top in terms of extracting the most fossil resources per capita. Norwegian oil, in line with all the other oil in the world burning, takes life – of course.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2780	When I was supposed to prepare myself for a reply, I made a small oil review of what SV has been involved in. In eight years SV has doubled the allocation of search activity on the socket. They have doubled the level of investment, opened the Barents Sea south-east and started opening processes at Jan Mayen – yes, maybe there is more. My question is then: Is it now satisfied with the oil policy that has been pursued, or is it something SV thinks should have been done differently?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2788	There is no doubt about it, and it is a well-known case that oil policy was perhaps one of two policy areas where the distance between the government parties was greatest, with us on the one hand and the Workers' Party on the other. It was very clear in all the election campaigns, where we went to elections, among others. to protect the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, and among others. to reduce the rate of oil extraction in Norway. We say this very clearly about all election campaigns, and I think it's been known to everyone. What's a little special, is that the Christian People's Party nevertheless chose to go to the elections to overthrow the government of which we were part, and instead set up a government of the Right and Advance Party, which even went to the elections to open the areas where the Swedish Government was able to prevent us from opening. But it's got to be the Christian People's Party's choice, and then we're both going to stand together outside the government to stop oil extraction that is harmful to the climate on the globe, and to people affected by climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2795	Fortunately, now there will be no activity outside the Lofoten, the Vestral, Senja or the other area mentioned earlier. I agree with Mr SV on the concern expressed over the two-part division of the Norwegian economy. At the same time, as pointed out by Andersen Eide, oil activity has never increased, even by opening up more new areas than has been done in the last eight years with the Swedish government. SV has shown that they in the government have not been able to get hold of that two-way division. Isn't it really a paradox that SV now depends on the Left and Christian People's Party using its position to tackle the two-part division of Norwegian economy, and that the Left and Christian People's Party can give SV a position, where it can stand free with its primary position instead of taking responsibility for a policy they have not shared in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2802	I can't see what the Left has done in this budget to reduce the division of the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2807	I could say a lot about it. We have strengthened the framework conditions for the mainland industry, we have invested in infrastructure, we have reduced taxes, we are focusing more on research and development than the previous government – at all, there is considerable investment in the mainland-Norway industry. But that was not my question. My question relates to Eidsvoll Holmås’ moral condemnation of the oil business. Let me remind you that 74 extraction permits were issued under the Bondevik II administration. Under the Stoltenberg II Government, 470 extraction permits were issued. In the kerosene message, the government that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås was part of, writes that increased field extraction, the development of findings and the detection of undiscovered resources are important objectives. And then the representative Eidsvoll Holmås says that this is deeply unsolvable and irresponsible. Does the representative Eidsvoll Holmås think that the policy of his own party for eight years is profoundly unsolvable and irresponsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2814	I would like to stress that during the period we put in government, CO2 emissions went down from the Norwegian side. At the same time, it is quite right, as Nikolai Astrup says, that the amount of CO2 emitted into the atmosphere as a result of Norwegian oil and gas burning is much larger, about ten times the size of the total emissions from the Norwegian sector. So we, with a population of 5 million people, are causing more CO2 emissions in the world than the entire population of Africa in over 1 billion people. I think it's necessary to do something about this, but I would like to stress one thing: I've never gone to any moral condemnation of the oil industry, but I've pointed out the simple fact that when we pump up Norwegian oil and gas, which is burning out in the world, it helps to contribute to climate change. There are no countries in the world that have greater fossil accumulations per capita than what we have in Norway. It's necessary to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2830	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2833	We are now debating the budget for a majority of governments that emphasise that they will pursue a knowledge-based policy, and that is good. We support the government's commitment to research and development of a new and sustainable business. But when we discuss climate and environmental issues, it's especially important to start with the knowledge we actually have, because it's ultimately about physics and nature. We know that if the world wants to avoid 2 degrees of heating, the world must not use more than 900 billion tons of CO2 equivalent by 2050. Question no. 1 is: how much of this has Norway planned to release? The main response of the blue government to this is maximum commitment to as long-term oil and gas activities as possible. Norway shall release as much as possible of what remains of the world to release. This has had the full political freedom of the Left and Christian People's Party to say no to this, instead they stand as co-responsors of this policy today. At the same time, the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV stand together for the ninth year in a row on a policy that – I quote from the setting page 24: ‘has facilitated excessive activity, etc.’. So this is SV, the Center Party and the Labour Party's policy in 2014. Later today, the Stortinget will be discussing a new Kyoto agreement. We then find the fact in Norwegian climate policy – which is high-speed, international rhetoric, combined with a political allergy to planned and concrete emission cuts, both in red-green blocks and in blue blocks. Norway has committed itself to halt the loss of biodiversity by 2020. The reason is that with the policies that various governments have now pursued, we lose biodiversity. The question is therefore: What will the government do about biodiversity in Norway? We have already received the answer. The government begins its period of a historical attack on Norwegian nature. For a long time, both Prime Minister Solberg and the Chairman of the Presidency Party have said things of the kind: butterflies are good and good, but they cannot get in the way of houses and roads. They have thus made it clear that they have not understood the essence of modern nature protection. Let there be no doubt: the government has translated this view of nature protection into practical policy by systematically weakening the position of nature protection in the planning and use of nature. Moving the plan department from the Ministry of the Environment is the main instrument for ensuring the nature of Norwegian spatial planning and use. Together with a drastic expansion of the snowmobile test system and opening for more construction in the shore zone, etc. notifies an increase, not a reduction, pressure on Norwegian nature. These interventions become irreversible. We know that the main cause of loss of species in Norwegian nature is the way we use land. We know that we do not get away with the cabins and roads that are built, and snowmobiles that have been allowed to drive, which traditionally replace Norwegian outdoor life. In the Political Quarter of the NRK this morning, Minister for the Environment Sundtoft said that it does not play a role in the protection of the environment where the plan department is located, or whether it is her or the municipal minister Sanner who has taken the lead in the planning and building law. Will it be next to move the predator management to Minister of Agriculture Listhaug? We already know that the government is considering moving the villas management to the Ministry of Fisheries. Environmental policies that work require concrete objectives and concrete commitments. The lack of both components is the reason Norway is losing biodiversity, still barely reducing its own emissions, and continues to increase global warming through its oil and gas activities. Is it indicative of the government's knowledge-based policy that the Minister for the Environment Sundtoft this morning drew on growth-enhancing tax incentives as an example of government's environmental and climate action? We are still waiting for the government's concrete targets for climate and environment, and we are waiting for a broad, active environmental opposition in the Stortinget that dares to go ahead with commitments.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2856	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2859	In the Sundvolden Declaration, the Right Party Government states that they will establish an FME centre for thorium. The Greens are united with the Red-Green parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left on a note that clearly rejects this point, among others. refers to the resistance of environmental organisations to this proposal. Since it is only the government parties who will set up this centre, it is certainly doubtful whether anything will happen, but I will give the Green Party the opportunity to elaborate and justify why the party, together with us, is skeptical of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2864	Thank you for the good question. The main reason why we are sceptical about this is that the climate solution is developing renewable, sustainable energy. That is what we need to spend money on, that is what we need to give political priority. Efforts to develop a technology that, at best, will come in a very long time, which is likely to be very expensive, and which is not very likely to be successful at all, for example. much less likely to be successful than the climate solutions we already have, such as sun, wind, etc. – such a bet is a derailment. And we can't afford that kind of derailment in the climate struggle.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2869	The Environment Party of the Greens writes in a note to the budget that they want to ‘introduce an energy policy that initiates a gradual and controlled phase-out of the Norwegian petroleum industry over a twenty-year period’. As we know, the petroleum industry accounts for one third of state revenue today. For 2013, it means about 350 billion. kr. In order for the welfare society in Norway to continue as today also in 20 years, and without oil, it requires several hundred billion dollars to be covered by other revenues. Does the Green Party believe that their commitment to alternative energy will fully replace the revenues generated by the petroleum industry in 20 years' time? If the answer is no, what kind of well-being does the representative think we should do without?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2880	Thank you very much for a good question. The first thing I have to do is, of course, to return the question: does anyone in this room imagine that Norway does not have to base well-being, jobs and the economy on a sustainable business life in a few decades' time? The question is only when to do so, not whether to do so. The fascinating thing about these issues, which are constantly addressed to the Green Party, is that they are only addressed to us and not to governments with power and responsibility for the future we all face – that we should live without oil. The question has to be answered by more than the Greens/Greens/EFA. The answer is, of course, yes, we can have and maintain a welfare society in Norway even without oil! It's just taking a look across Sweden's borders, you can see that it's completely possible. And just taking a look into the future, we see that there are no alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2893	To the evening post on 17 August, the first candidate Hansson at that time states: ‘It is possible to have a slightly lower purchasing power than today.’ Further: ‘That means that each of us will gradually buy a little less. Buying slightly fewer imported goods, [[...]] The MDG Party programme states that the lot will use ‘more Norwegian aid to increase agricultural productivity and better water availability’. What will the representative say to the many thousands of poor farmers in developing countries who want to export their agricultural products to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2910	Thank you for a good question. To farmers in poor developing countries who want to export products, we would say: they must be very much allowed to do so. It must be part of an international order — in the interests of both developing countries and other countries — in order to maintain food production and jobs in agriculture in any country. That is of course a prerequisite for all policies. There is no contradiction between this and the conduct of international trade. On the contrary, it is a question not only of letting the fox run loose in the henyard – the fox is one-sided, global food groups – but also of giving priority to the interests of countries where common small farmers need a decent level of income.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2919	The Green Party cut its budget a lot in its investments on the base in order to reduce oil tempo. It wasn't surprising. The Christian People's Party believes this must be the wrong way to do it, it's the wrong medicine. We believe that the pace must be governed by the concession policy. Does not the Green Party agree that it is better not to open new areas and to be restrictive in the granting of permits than to strangle the state’s investments – as the party now does – in permits already adopted?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2926	The Green Party is at least perfectly open to discuss with both the Christian People's Party and all other parties exactly what the best means are. Let's be clear. The next answer is that the Green Party is going in to limit or stop the number of new permits. But it makes sense, in our opinion, to combine it with reducing the level of investment, which is currently exceptionally high, and rather use these funds in other and more important ways of building a sustainable society. In addition, there is both a way of preserving oil values – oil values that may be lower in a future where the oil sector is under tougher pressure in the markets – and a way of limiting the ability of oil companies to put pressure on important areas, for example. such areas as the Christian People's Party now need to defend itself politically against the government, and against the pressure of an oil industry which has too much investment capacity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2933	I thought I would ask one question. There's one thing that surprises me. It is that the Greens will not be involved in financing the capture and storage of CO2. With regard to one of the proposals, which have broad agreement, the entire Committee is in favour of having an ambition to put in place CO2 clean-up by 2020. It's okay. In addition, in the red-green parties, we say that this must be something that the state is involved in funding – which has been the premise since we started this programme – but it will not be part of the Green Party. Can Rasmus Hansson explain why?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2948	I'll try – thank you for the question. The answer is quite simply that we are now in a situation where Norway has used considerable political prestige and considerable resources to try to initiate a CO2 effort, which we have not received, and which, on the other hand, has partly confirmed some of the counter-representation against CO2 capture and storage, namely that it acts as a powder on the patient called the oil business, and that it takes away the attention from the much more important measures to wind up the oil business that the representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås and I fully agree that we must start to wind up. That's why we want a pause of thought. We do not want to commit ourselves to putting in place the new investment by 2020, until we have been involved in a better professional discussion about where the CO2 capture and storage issue is going.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2966	The President would point out that neither the representative Hansson nor the representative Eidsvoll Holmås has tabled proposal No. 3, on which the Socialist Left and the Greens are united. The President will propose that the representative Hansson address this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2969	A very good suggestion, we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2974	I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2979	The representatives Rasmus Hansson and Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås have then taken up the proposal to which they referred. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e2985	Climate change is not happening once in the future. Climate change is now happening. With this budget, the government is starting work on strengthening the climate agreement. The 2014 budget shows a significant increase in climate and environmental efforts for all departments, and compared to 2013, this increase is estimated at a total of 4.8 billion. kr. Overall, Stortinget now handles a budget of over 8.2 billion. kr, greater than ever before. The budget agreement at Stortinget was also important for our overall environmental effort. The cooperation between the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right makes Norway meet four green years. Compared to the 2013 budget, the government proposes to increase the general rate of the CO2 tax on mineral oil and gas by approx. NOK 100. The base tax on mineral oil is also increased. At the same time, we reduce taxes on labour and value added. It is a good package for both the environment, business and workers. The green shift is in progress. We are strengthening the climate agreement as we increase the appropriations for the railways. We reinforce the climate agreement when we notify a green tax commission. We reinforce the climate agreement when we are working on introducing a deduction for ENØC measures in households. Renewable production is to be increased and the procedure is to be reduced. We will also invest more in new climate-friendly technology and research. The government is now working on a new carbon capture and storage strategy, with the ambition of full-scale clean-up in 2020. In 2014, the government will also increase the investment in environmentally friendly vehicles, including: because the VAT on the rental of an electric car disappears. Carbon leakage is a growing problem. The most important response to this challenge is to provide good framework conditions and favourable tax rules for Norwegian industry. But special measures may also be necessary. The scheme of industrial CO2 compensation is such a special measure. The scheme runs from 2014 to 2020 and is a targeted tool for carbon leakage. I am satisfied with the device it has now received. The fact that it is located in the Ministry of Climate and Environment underlines the climate dimension of the scheme. I was recently at the climate negotiations in Warsaw, where a road map for the future was adopted. Uganda’s Finance Minister, Maria Kiwanuka, was central to funding. The way she communicated it, that the climate is now focused on all planning in her country, gave me inspiration. The basis for a new climate agreement must be drawn up in 2014 to provide opportunities for negotiations in Paris in 2015. Norway shall continue to play an active and constructive role internationally. Our main challenge is to reduce CO2 emissions, but increasing efforts to reduce emissions of short-lived climate drivers, such as methane and soot, can be crucial in the short term to meet the two-degree target. In addition, reducing deforestation will result in significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. The Warsaw Climate Summit adopted a complete code for forest conservation. It's a milestone and an important breakthrough. We're going to spend 2.8 billion. kr in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from deforestation in 2014 and the fact that the government will continue the initiative until 2020 contributes to predictability. Developing countries are now receiving a strong signal to continue their efforts to reduce deforestation. Climate and environmental issues are also local. We need to preserve forests in Norway. The allocation to the new forest protection system is increasing by 100 million. kr in 2014. It makes it possible to conclude agreements on voluntary protection with forest owners. Norway has a close relationship with the coast, sea and water, so we will give priority to clean-up activities in the polluted seabed and increase it by 4 million. kr. Rapid climate change and increasing activity in the north are increasing the need for more knowledge, and therefore we are proposing an increase of 43 million. kr for climate and environmental research. Norway is blessed with an oil fortune that gives us great opportunities. But oil wealth also gives us a great responsibility – a responsibility for creating a sustainable society. The low-emission society is not an airy vision. The green shift is now in progress. It's about grasping the opportunities now, and the budget we're about to adopt today helps more people do just that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3020	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3023	Let me begin by welcoming the Minister for Climate and Environment to Stortinget. It is nice to be able to take a climate and environmental discussion here. I can also congratulate you on the fact that, based on what I understand, one has concluded with an important matter for the Minister for Climate and Environment; that the management of the wild species remains under the Minister for Climate and Environment. I noticed that one was satisfied with the scheme that is now available for CO2 compensation for the industry. I am concerned that it is not only the satisfaction that the Minister for Climate and Environment is now showing, which is important, it is also important to make sure that the industry is satisfied with the scheme during the contract period. Based on what we also heard the representative Nikolai Astrup said here earlier today, can the Minister for Climate and Environment guarantee that we will have a full compensation scheme during the agreement period until 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3033	Thanks for the nice words. The representative of Terje Aasland also knows that the draft budget that came to the Storting from the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right was at the level proposed by Stoltenberg II. What I can guarantee is that the government will pursue a fully-fledged industrial policy by 2020, which ensures the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. What I also said is that I'm satisfied with the way the system is now, and I think together we're going to be able to create a good policy so that we keep the important process industry in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3040	Thank you very much for your answer. I understand that the Minister for Climate and Environment might like to give a guarantee, but not dare to give it to industry in the case of a fully-fledged CO2 compensation scheme, so I dare to ask the question again: can the Minister for Climate and Environment guarantee that we can have a fully-fledged CO2 compensation scheme for industry during the agreement period up to 2020, so that we will once and for all be able to resolve any doubts that might be out there about future investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3051	Today we are dealing with the state budget for 2014. The scheme runs from 2014 to 2020, and with CO2 compensation it is a targeted instrument. What I can guarantee is that the government will pursue a fully-fledged industrial policy by 2020, which will also ensure the competitiveness of the Norwegian process industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3059	I would like to thank the Council of State for the last time. Then we were in Warsaw together, and she made a vigorous effort there. Now to the question. The government's extension of the snowmobile test system has created a lot of uncertainty and noise about what will become the future policy, even though the government's platform says that there will be a change in the motorcycling law and that municipalities will have the power to establish snowmobile loops. The Christian People's Party has made it known in the budget that we are asking for the testing scheme to be stopped. We cannot understand why it is appropriate to carry out the experiment if a process is already under way amending the Motor Travel Act. My question is, When will the Council of State come to Stortinget with a change in the motor racing law?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3068	Let me stress that it was the previous government that invited to the pilot project with 40 municipalities. What we've done is we've expanded the number of municipalities. The same municipalities have been given a rather strict regulation to take into account outdoor life, noise and protected areas in their planning. It's not a release this is about. What we've said is that we're going to use this attempt to get more knowledge. Knowing more about this is important when we're also going to start legal work. There we will have a normal legal work with normal hearings – we would also like to cooperate with the Left and Christian People's Party on it – and take the necessary time for the legislative proposal to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3075	In the government's budget proposal, support for the People's Action for an oil-free Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja was cut by 2.4 million. kr – to zero. Fortunately, it was reversed in the negotiations here in Stortinget, but it created an uncertainty. What I noticed was that the Ministry of the Environment first argued for the cut-off that it was not about a nationwide organisation. It turned out later that it was a nationwide organization. Then it was justified that there will be no impact assessment of these areas, and that there is therefore no need for the organisation. My question is, does the Council of State think this is a good reason? Is it a general view that only State aid should be granted to organisations that do not receive it as they wish?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3084	We're taking note that the bulk of the population now wants something different about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3089	I would also like to thank the Council of State for the article. It has been mentioned in the past that there has been a commitment to delegate more responsibility for snowmobile driving to the municipalities. There is a disagreement as to whether this can be done within the testing schemes or not. The Government has also expressed the wish that more of the environmental work be delegated down to the municipalities. Then I wonder: What will the Council of State do to ensure that the 429 municipalities we have have have the environmental competence necessary to get more delegated responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3095	I'm a little uncertain about what Elvesuen here is aiming at with ‘to delegate more’, but for this government it's important that local self-government is founded. That's why what we're sending out now, the rule on snowmobiles, is quite comprehensive. We don't want it to be free for the municipalities to get involved in this or other questions. Sufficient competence and proper rounds must be provided in order to be defended.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3100	I would like to follow up the question from the Christian People's Party, because one of the things that is said by the minister is that we only extend the attempt to the red-green government from 40 to over 100 municipalities. Then it is so simple that the big difference is that the red-green government said clearly and clearly that this is an attempt we intend to make to check what the consequences will be with the type of local administration of this. But that's not the Minister for the Environment. The Minister for the Environment says: Yes, we are now far open to the pilot scheme, but we are not really going to take time to evaluate the pilot scheme until we implement a modified law on motor traffic. Don't you think people are fooling around? Do not environmental protectioners, landowners and municipalities be fooled when, as you later do, a large and expanded trial, but really do not have time and resources to wait for the trial to be over before introducing the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3107	You can do two things at once. We're sending out the same regulation that the red-green government sent out in May, and got a lot of input into it. We're expanding the arrangement. The trial is in principle from 2014 to 2018, but we say that we should also start legal work now, with the time it takes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3112	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3115	The first thing most of us do when we wake up in the morning is to check if the cell phone is charged during the night. Then we get up, turn on the light and the coffee machine. The few of us think a little more about what makes the cell phone charged, the light is switched on when we turn on the switch, or the coffee is taken. That the current comes from a place, that someone is working to make sure that we get the current where we live, we take for granted no matter where we live, whether we live near or far from where the current is produced. In a well-functioning society, security of energy supply is critical. We've all experienced losing power for a longer or shorter time, and that's only when we're reminded of how dependent we are on energy. It is important that we ensure efficient, secure, robust and environmentally friendly energy supply in Norway. Over the past eight years, there has been a positive development in the entire energy field, and this is what we see as the main continuation of the Right-wing Party Government: the introduction of electricity certificates, increased capacity in renewable energy concession treatment, a historical commitment to refurbishment and renewal of the electricity grid, and increased investment in environmentally friendly conversion of energy use and energy production, to mention something. In the case of electricity certificates, we are well on track in Norway. The government has warned to consider adjustments to the system of electricity certificates, but what does this imply? Should a include renewable power built before the entry into force of the electricity certificates scheme? And how will it lead to more renewable power? In particular, a government made up of market librarians alerts changes that will affect the market, without doing anything about it. It is important that the government soon clarify what kind of adjustments they will propose in the Electricity Certificate Scheme. Electronic certificates are one thing, but notifying the introduction of tax deductions for an increment measure in households without doing anything about it is even more serious. In general, Norway is supplied with renewable energy, and most of it comes from hydropower. The fact that we get our current from hydropower makes us particularly vulnerable in some periods. It is necessary to work continuously to increase the robustness of the power supply towards periods of reduced and unforeseen events. Our government provided inter-national connections to both Germany and Great Britain, and they are now in concession treatment. This is important in order to ensure security of supply, achieve our offensive climate targets and contribute to green value creation. Experience in recent years has shown that we have been dependent on connections abroad to secure ourselves in periods of low rainfall and low temperatures. Several connections will strengthen the power exchange and mitigate fluctuations in power prices throughout the year. We will continue to build socially profitable cables. In the Sundvolden Declaration, the Right Party Government announces that they will amend the Energy Act so that actors other than Statnet will be able to own and operate foreign tables. We in the Workers' Party are opposed to such a change. We fear that this will mean that the state will have reduced control of network investments and important capacity and market conditions, and that this will result in increased vulnerability in the Norwegian market. The construction of foreign capacities will have implications for the national power grid. Therefore, private operators should not be allowed to do so. The fact that the government parties have received support from the Christian People's Party and the Left for continuing to cut off the contribution to the balancing of network tariffs is surprising, and it testifies to a large majority with low ambitions for the districts. Cuts in the balancing of network tariffs increase household, agricultural and, in particular, business expenditure. In particular, it affects those parts of the country with the absolute highest costs of transmission and distribution of electricity, due to challenging natural conditions and the structure of food and housing. When one sees this budget as a whole and in particular the proposal to remove regional development funds and the proposal to change the CO2 compensation scheme, which would have affected industry if it had obtained a majority, it is difficult to look at the budget as particularly district friendly. Keeping smaller network companies means a lot to security of supply for most people — in addition to providing local jobs and knowledge. If the government aims to reduce the number of network companies, it will start at the wrong end. The consequence will be, in the first place, not fewer network companies, but more expensive bills for the inhabitants of the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3146	In the case of renewable energy, we are part of a power market in the Nordic region. In addition, Europe is developing its new energy market. A great deal of new renewable energy is to be phased into the EU – in all significant sun and wind. Germany is about to reach 25 pst. renewable energy. The problem — to the extent that it is a problem — is that the energy has to be produced and used when there is wind and sun. This means that top loads are needed and, of course, other energy sources are needed to cover the rest of the need and to be reserve when there is no wind and no sun. As of today, the CO2 quota price is low. The United States has largely gone from coal to gas. Knowing that the gas price in Europe is higher than in the United States means something to the EU's competitiveness in energy-intensive production. According to Chief Economist Dr. Birol of the International Energy Agency, this bias is likely to continue until 2030. This means that coal in Europe is cheap, and we see a tendency for coal to be preferred to gas. In addition, the EU's renewable efforts will require the building of new networks and new structures. In addition, we are facing the introduction of a third EU electricity market package. With this as a hindrance, it is therefore good that the government has signalled that it will provide an energy message with an overall approach where one sees climate, energy and economic development as a whole. Although the backstop is somewhat unclear, renewable energy is and will become important, and the cheapest and most environmentally friendly use of power takes place through energy efficiency improvement measures. Making us consumers use less and only renewable energy is and becomes important. In this budget, the government has been committed to reducing our consumption by increasing efficiency through increased investment in research and development. Good conditions are also being worked on for an additional measure to be taken by households. The cooperationagreement between the Right, the Progressive Party, the Left and the Christian People’s Party states that a tax deduction should be introduced forinvestments in the home. This system shall be put in place as soon as possible. Due to the neglected development and maintenance of the electricity grid, there has to be a significant effort in the coming years. Almost whatever we do in a modern society, we depend on power and stable power supply. To improve this, it's signalled from Statnett that there will be an investment of between 50 and 70 billion. kr. In addition, there will be two investments in the regional networks. Furthermore, there is a need for reinforcement of the distribution system, including: through the introduction of advanced measurement and management systems in all households. Many of these investments need to be made due to security of supply. In addition, the phase-in of new renewable energy and the needs of the petroleum sector are in need of more power. The investment will be paid, and the network costs will have to rise. In this picture, it is important to safeguard the competitiveness of our industry. We do that by providing industry with a stable energy supply and good framework conditions, as the government puts into its budget. In addition, the aim is to ensure a good balance in energy supply by planning to expand inter-national connections, initially two new cables to Europe. What about renewable energy? The government contributes to increased production of hydropower, wind power, bioenergy and other renewable forms of energy. In other words, a major effort is being made to develop renewable energy in the country in the coming year. We believe that the future is renewable, and then we need to build renewable energy. If we're going to achieve our climate goals, we all agree that we need to expand. We have to expand the grid to deploy the power, we have to expand the industry that processes the power in the world's most environmentally friendly way. We are today in a regime with Sweden linked to green certificates. We've been working on expanding 13.5 TWh by 2020. Time is starting to get buttony. Major investments must have been adopted during 2014 and early 2015 in order to reach the certificate market. The scheme runs until 2020, and many investments will depend on their reaching this scheme. All investments to be made in the central and regional networks up to 2020 are significant, and we believe that in order to achieve this in a good and efficient way, we need a more rational network structure with fewer and more robust network companies – this in order to meet consumers' interests and needs. One of the measures that can be easily taken is to remove the manning requirements of the regulation of competence and replace it with general quality and safety requirements. We trust that those whom we have given the concession to operate our electricity grid also establish their operations in a safe and sound manner within their own HMS procedures that meet safety requirements. So finally some words about flood and escape. The government is increasing its investment in this area in the budget of the year. This is important. Here it is important to focus on ensuring existing construction and infrastructure and not least focus on future planning and new construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3175	The Ministry of Oil and Energy will work on three important things both next year and in the years to come. One is carbon capture and storage, which we must get back on track after the crash landing under the red-green government. We're going to work on producing more renewable energy, and we're going to work to maintain the activity on the socket. Petroleum activity is Norway’s largest industry measured in value added, state income and export value. The industry employs about 250,000 people, and the state pension fund abroad passed 5,000 billion last week. market value kr. There's a lot of activity in the industry. In 2012, it was invested about 171 billion. kr on the base and revenue of the country was approximately 400 billion. kr. The level of investment is expected to be high in the coming years too, but since the Norwegian cap oil production peaked in 2001, production has fallen. Hard and targeted efforts are needed to counter future declines in investment and production. Predictability and long-termity are very important for an industry that is as capital intensive and has as long lead times as the oil industry has. Therefore, it is a strength for Norwegian cap that there is broad agreement on the major lines of petroleum policy. I would like to remind the assembly of this message that was presented by the red-green government, which is called a food for the future. A nourishment for the future – and it was presented by the red-green government. Therefore, a change of government does not make any significant changes in this policy. SV is also behind the big lines of Norwegian petroleum policy. There is agreement to develop the potential of the socket by simultaneously investing in several areas: increasing extraction from existing fields and continuing active exploration activity in mature areas, such as the Johan Sverdrup field is a good example of making sense. There is an agreement on the allocation of new area for exploration, including: in the south-east of the Barents Sea, which was opened by a significant majority of the Stortinge earlier this year. The government is increasing the allocations to the Oil Directorate and Petoro to enable them to follow up priority tasks related to realising the value potential from the field in operation and to ensure that we get the most out of the fields that are already in production. The government will promote Norwegian oil and gas as an important contribution to meeting the world’s energy needs and Norwegian gas as an instrument for reducing Europe’s emission intensity. In the case of renewable energy, Norway is in a special position. Unlike most European countries, 98 psts. by all Norwegian forces from renewable sources. The government’s 2020 target is to increase the share of renewable energy to 67,5 p.p., which will be the sovereign largest share in the EU. However, the government is committed to increasing the production of renewable energy in Norway. In this context, the electrical certification system is important. As a red-green politician, you can be tall and dark and stand on this platform and tell me how much you've done, but the fact is that 0.55 TWh is what we've been able to deliver on green certification schemes. The Swedes beat us eight times more. I note that the red-green wholesalers are satisfied with that, but I do not think that is a reason to be. We have bigger ambitions than that. It will also benefit industry, which will benefit from increased power surpluses in Norway. Norwegian industry will also benefit from the major ambitions of the Right-wing Party Government for energy efficiency improvement. That's where Enova is the most important tool. The aim is to reduce the use of electricity by more than six TWh, which will also help to increase the power surplus in favour of Norwegian industry and for the benefit of Norwegian consumers, who receive both cheaper and more environmentally friendly heat in their homes. So we're going to provide an energy message. Let me just make it clear to the representative Pollestad that we're going to spend time on it. Had we had to submit a message as the red-green government did, a renewable message on four A4 pages, I would be able to deliver it before Christmas. I want to do a decent job with it. So we're going to have to spend some time on it, but there's not going to be any rest cushions. Then I get back to carbon capture and storage in my 3-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3201	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3204	The red-green government led offensive policies to open up new areas. We carried out a knowledge acquisition for the north-east Norwegian Sea, we launched an impact investigation for Jan Mayen, and we opened the Barents Sea south-east. Governments have recently been in North Norway and have expressed their opinion on oil activities in the north. To the Official Journal of Harstad he said: ‘We must continue to strengthen the voice from the north so that the impact assessment of the Lofoten and the Vestralen can come.’ The next day, we could read in the magazine Vesterålen that the areas outside the Western Sea and the Lofoten should be opened. Considering that the new government put its foot down for both impact assessment and continued work on both Jan Mayen and Lofoten, this stands in sharp contrast to it. Are these statements an expression that the Council of State wants a new government for Christmas, or is it just an expression that the Council of State wants to be a private-practice council without any ties to its own government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3218	I have been very clear to everyone I have spoken to, both in lectures and to journalists, that I am, of course, fully behind the agreement that has been concluded. There is an agreement which also indicates that during this landfilling period these areas shall not be opened up to petroleum activity. I'm behind that. So that doesn't mean that if you're going to put the long-term perspective, as a significant majority of the Storting is behind, on Norwegian petroleum activity, it's natural that at some point we also look at these areas that are now kept out of activity during this period. During this period, however, the representative is well aware that the agreement is fully established.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3228	The Council of State was recently presented in the Class struggle in a way that he does not take into account what has emerged in the Holden Committee, which recommends reducing oil dependence by holding back some of the oil activity, which is entirely in line with the Christian People's Party's policy. Is it the case in the Class struggle that the Council of State intends to provide ‘restricted gas’ in the oil industry in the years to come? Then the government and the Christian People's Party are really on a collision course.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3235	I have to repeat what I said from the pulpit instead, that the red-green government chose to keep a high pace. We see that the activity in 2012 and 2013 has been record high and will be in 2014. I mean, like Holden, that even activity on a Norwegian base makes sense, but I think it's going to be demanding to be at the level we've been at in the last few years. But it's a goal of the Progress Party and the Right to maintain the activity on the base up to the level of the day. It is also in line with the Holden Committee, it is in line with what is communicated from the LO, and it is in line with what is communicated from the NHO – nor should it be a great surprise to the Stortinget that the Progress Party and the Right believe that the activity on the Norwegian base should be tried to maintain.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3240	The Council of State was involved in the single Norwegian-Swedish certificate market and its effects and promised that a greater proportion of future investments would come on the Norwegian side, and that we would take the Swedish back in this area. The government platform states that one shall ‘assess adjustments to the electricity certificate scheme’. This is a market-based system, so there should be no uncertainty about the future arrangements for a long time. I want to challenge the Council of State to say what steps in the system of electrical certificates he sees themselves, and how fast these will be in place to reach the goal that he presented from the pulpit, that we should take back the Swedes when it comes to the development of force.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3249	I note that the representative did not comment on whether he was satisfied with what the red-green government has delivered in this field, but we will get back to that later in the debate. The representative will be aware that there is a control station for this work in 2015, which, of course, has to be joined by Norway and Sweden. When that work is in progress and during 2015 we know more about where we are going, how many projects are in line, it's natural to look at whether it's natural to engage. My hope is that we will know in 2015 – at least in 2016 – whether we will achieve the goals we have committed ourselves to, namely 26.4 TW. If not, of course, the government, along with the Storting, look at what steps we're going to take. In any case, it is certain that the scheme will not be weakened under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3256	Thank you for a very good post. I noticed that the Council of State drew up three priority areas. It was carbon capture, it was increased production of renewable energy, and it was maintaining production in the oil and gas sectors. I think the Left believes, for the sake of the Norwegian economy, that we should reduce/depress that very activity in the oil and gas sector. But that's not what I'm going to ask. I wish there was a fourth target here, and that is that the increased renewable energy would be actively used to reduce CO2 emissions and greenhouse gas emissions. Does the Council agree that we need to go far in order to use the extra energy, renewable energy, in order to avoid increased emissions and reduce existing emissions, and that this must also apply within the petroleum industry, not least with regard to the decision that has to be taken in the short term in relation to the Utsira altitude?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3268	Thank you to the chairman of the committee for a good question. Of course, I believe that the whole point of actually putting so much effort into building infrastructure for the phase-in of new renewable energy and building the plants that will produce renewable energy is very much motivated by the fact that we are going to have a more renewable society and a phase out of fossil energy use. In that work, I am very pleased that both the Left and most of the other parties who have spoken today have been very clear about the need to build foreign tables as well. Being able to phase out coal in Europe makes Europe a more renewable area. Then it is quite clear that there is also both the government's ambition and part of the cooperation agreement, part of the climate agreement, that it is going to work further with electrification where possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3277	Thank you for the speech by the Council of State. I was in debate with the Environment Minister this morning, who could not guarantee that electrification would be facilitated at the Utsira Height. That's why I'm asking the same question to the state councillor, Tord Lien, that I made the Environment Minister this morning. It is true that the Minister for the Environment is responsible for the climate agreement and for facilitating the area development of the electrification of the socket, but it is up to the Minister for Oil and Energy to decide on these issues in relation to the individual development. From the red-green side, we have arranged for the government to be able to electrify the height of Utsira, by saying very clearly in the context of the treatment of this, that the various devices prepared for the balance of forces are to ‘connect to any joint power solution at the height of Utsira at the time it is in place, unless the department decides otherwise’. Can the Council of State Tord Lien guarantee that we will be able to electrify the height of Utsira?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3286	I note that the representative started by asking if we should facilitate this. Yes, we will. Then there was a question about a guarantee. Now I want to remind the representative that there are many installations on the Norwegian base that have already been electrified, both before the red-green government came to power, and afterwards. That's good. This has not happened because decisions have been made in the Ministry of Oil and Energy, but because the licenses have asked for it. I know that there is now work going on with that license – negotiations between the parties to that license – about what they are going to ask the government and the big deal to get permission to do. When these figures reach the Ministry of Oil and Energy, the Minister of Oil and Energy can decide – not until we have received that information.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3291	Thanks to the Council of State for a strong and clear contribution, where he made it clear, of course, that his ambition and the government's ambition are still strong in further and long-term Norwegian oil business. I'm not going to try to convince the Council of State that it's a bad idea -- I think it's a little more long-term project -- but what's a little more mysterious to me, is the Norwegian official clock belief that Norway is the country that's going to use its resources eventually, in a world where there's no room for all fossil resources to be used in any way -- the belief that there's a vision that will resonate with other actors who also want to use their resources. Can the Council of State try to explain how Norway argues to China, South Africa and similar countries for our special position in this global climate account?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3300	Like a majority in this room, I believe that at some point we will succeed in establishing technology – and phase-in technology – for the capture and storage of carbon that will zero out a lot of what the representative asks for. So we know that when we produce electricity from gas, it gives half as much emissions as from coal, and we see that coal consumption in Europe is rising. Norwegian gas can be part of the long-term response to those challenges. We see that the US has halved its CO2 emissions to power production in just a few years because of abundant gas supply. And we know that the world needs a lot of energy, and to do what IEA points to, that's just ten pst. a decade-long reduction in oil production is going to be demanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3310	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3314	Petroleum industry is the largest and most important individual industry in Norway. It is characterised by large and long-term investments that generate huge revenues to the community and provides 250000 jobs across the country. Stable framework conditions are very important for this industry. It is therefore positive that the new government is continuing the petroleum policy of the red-green government with a focus on increased extraction, the development of findings and high exploration activity. However, the fourth pillar of petroleum policy, the opening of new areas, has been chosen to ignore. As late as May this year, today's government parties wrote in the Innst. 288 S on the permanent protection of the Lofoten: ‘The members of the Committee from the Party of Advances and the Right will underline the importance of keeping a predictable and high pace in opening new areas of petroleum activity’.» In addition, they say: ‘These members will initiate an impact assessment of oil and gas activity in Northland VI, Northland VII and Troms II.’; ‘... the importance of keeping a predictable and high pace’ did not prove to be greater than that this was already dropped in the experiments with the Left and Christian People’s Party. This is one of many areas where this government goes back to what the parties said before the election. In the government’s rhetoric about climate, it is said that they will strengthen climate reconciliation. In their first budget, they weaken it. In the proposal for XIX, the government proposed to abandon the ambition of the climate agreement to realise at least one full-scale CO2 capture facility by 2020, and they would replace it with an ambition to realise a demonstration facility. I am pleased that an overall committee rejects this and promotes the red-green government's proposal on this point. On the allocation side, the government cut Gassnova's budget by 10 million. kr on the grounds that the planning of full scale capture and storage is completed. But this was, of course, also provided for in the budget of the red-green government. And then we cut 100 million. kr in loans to TCM. This reduces the potential for better use of existing infrastructure. Similarly, increased testing opportunities are reduced and the TCM becomes less attractive to technology suppliers and industrial partners. Thus, the right-hand Party Government has put all its brakes on the development of CO2 capture and storage technologies. We all know that this is the most important single technology available to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We also know that there is an urgent need to achieve emissions reductions as monsaries in order to achieve the goal of reducing global temperature increase to two degrees over pre-industrial time. The government has taken time out in technology development to create a new strategy. They don't say anything about when this strategy is going to be put in place, and they are cutting dramatically in the budgets for technology development. This leads to confusion of competence and delays in work. Global warming has not taken time out and government's climate policy ambitions appear weak. The CO2 compensation scheme is an important element of an effective climate policy. We ensure that the competitiveness of our hydropower-based process industry is not weakened as a result of an effective climate policy. This scheme was presented as crucial for the industrial companies that I visited in Hardanger during the election campaign. Good and stable framework conditions provided the basis for the plans for billions of investments at Tizir in Tyssedal, and they provided the basis for the hope of profitable operations at Søral in Husnes. The proposal of the Right-wing Party Government does not receive a majority, and it is the proposal of the Red-Green Government that is being adopted here today. That's good. Nevertheless, the industry is left with uncertainty. Will the CO2 compensation scheme suffer the same fate as the net pay scheme for seafarers? It had to be fought through in the budget procedure of the Great Britain twice a year under the previous bourgeois government. This does not create stability, it does not lay the foundation for investment, it does not become competitive. At Søral in Kvinnherad, 60 men had to go to our house because of the market situation. The 230 remaining employees deserve predictable framework conditions when they fight to secure the local community's cornerstone. Tizir in Tyssedal needs predictable framework conditions to convert a production technology to double production, create 100 new jobs and reduce CO2 emissions by 90 pst. This requires investments in the billion class. This is why we invite the Stortinget to decide to ask the government to ensure predictability of a fully-fledged CO2 compensation scheme in the contractual period until 2020. It is sad to hear that the government and the Minister for the Environment are unable to give a clear answer to this. They give clear answers and clear ties to the government's other arrangements, but they will not guarantee this. That is why we must promote the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3368	Norway's history as an oil and gas nation is in many ways an adventure. Until the 1970s, GDP per capita in Norway was below the average in Western Europe. After that time, Norway has experienced significantly faster and more stable growth than most other countries. While economic growth has increased and declined in most other industrialised countries, it has almost only risen and progressed in Norway. After Norway’s new future as an oil nation had become a reality, what was to become known as the ten oil bids were written in 1971. Already in this early phase of our new role as an oil and gas nation, we had fortunately witnessed politicians in the British Industry Committee who knew what kind of significant responsibility our gold discovery under the sea brought with them. The first oil bid says as follows: ‘The national control-command must be ensured for all activities on the Norwegian continental shelf.’ This is an important principle, which Norway has maintained since the beginning of the oil adventure. Through the establishment of the Oil Directorate and Statoil in 1972, Petoro and Gassco in 2001, as well as the Petroleum Control Agency in 2004, full national governance and control has been sought. The government is committed to preserving and strengthening the state's ability to ensure the highest possible value creation from our fossil resources. Therefore, the government is strengthening both OD and Petoro in this budget. In this way, the OD's ability to contribute to increased extraction will be increased and Petoro's ability to follow up the interests of the country, in particular those in existing fields, will be improved. Increased extraction and continuous investment are necessary in order to maintain an even level of activity over time. Fortunately, there is a broad consensus on the importance of, and the direction for, the Norwegian petroleum industry. Still the ten oil bids lie as a map for the road further. This is good, because predictability and long-termity are very important for this industry. The petroleum industry is the engine of the Norwegian economy. 250,000 people are directly or indirectly employed here. The country collects one third of its income from it — nearly 350 billion. kr for 2013. There is no doubt that Norway, as we know today, would look very different without the oil and gas industry. Some would argue that we need to phase out and shut down Norwegian petroleum industry in order to combat world climate change. I think climate change is something we have to take very seriously. Norway also has to do its part and has a responsibility. However, I do not agree that the closure of Norwegian oil and gas activities is the solution to the problem. Climate challenges need to be seen in a global perspective. The world is increasingly in need of more energy. More and more are being raised out of poverty, and more and more countries are experiencing economic growth. I believe our petroleum industry is an important contribution to solving the world's energy and climate challenges. As early as 1971, we were concerned about the environment in oil policy. The fourth oilman says: «The development of an oil industry must take place taking into account existing industrial activities and the protection of nature and the environment». We've been busy with this page. Norwegian continental shelf accounts for the world's most climate-friendly oil and gas production. The emissions per unit of oil and gas produced from Norwegian cap are significantly lower than from the petroleum provinces of other countries. This has not happened by itself. There is considerable willingness to convert and to develop new and more environmentally friendly technologies behind this. Norwegian gas production, precisely because of good technology, is significantly more environmentally friendly than gas production in many other parts of the world. Therefore, it is important that we increase our efforts on research so that we can continue to use our oil wealth to develop new technologies to help the world achieve its climate goals. In this budget, there are 36 million. kr more for petroleum research, it is a good start. Less access to oil and natural gas is likely to lead to increased use of coal in many countries. The IEA states that the energy mix will also have a significant element of fossil energy in the future in the green scenario. The question is first and foremost the proportion to be recovered from coal or from oil and natural gas. Norwegian petroleum activity is part of the solution. This does not mean that we should not continue to invest in renewable energy and other environmentally friendly solutions. This is not about either – or, but it is about both – and.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3402	First of all, I would like to thank the members of the Committee for the work that has been done. I would like to stress that in most areas, there is indeed a great deal of consensus, although it is of course so that in some areas there are different solutions to how to tackle our climate challenges. The party of progress already sent clear signals in our out-of-court response to our desire to participate in a broad climate settlement. Unfortunately, the SV and the Workers' Party did not want to accept the Progress Party at the negotiating table for tactical reasons. Maybe not so wise when we see which parties are in government today. It must be quite clear that although we want to strengthen the climate agreement and accept the Kyoto agreement, it must be understood in a context that this government, with the Right and the Advance Party, will practice instruments in a way that is different from what the previous government wanted, both to the needs of businesses and to the interests of individuals. We do not want the deflagration of business to other countries with a background of peculiar demands towards businesses. The Right Party and the Progressive Party stress that there is a particular responsibility for climate change, loss of biodiversity and the spread of environmental pollutants. I would particularly like to show here that the government wants to think completely and forward-looking in the environment. Whether we want to or not, it is a must for the future that appropriations for rail, collective action and efficient, safe roads are included as part of an environmental perspective. In the future, we will carry far more people by rail, by collective solutions and by road traffic than we do today. It is then both right and forward-looking to ensure good solutions for reducing emissions centrally in our cities, while at the same time making our roads effective and able to solve our transport and environmental challenges elsewhere in the country. It will also be important for this government to respect private property, irrespective of the desire for conservation and protection. Private property rights are important both as a principle and as a means of ensuring the prudent and long-term management of resources. I would like to show that the wild axis is a priority area, and that the fight against Gyrodactylus salaris has been prioritised. That's why the government grants 10 million. The Driva project and will also launch an information campaign aimed at spreading gyro from Northern Finland. I would like to thank everyone in the Committee who wanted to give priority to environmental cooperation with Russia. Norilian Nickel at the Norwegian-Russian border emits 100 000 tonnes of sulphur dioxide and heavy metals annually. Norilian Nickel is very likely to be one of, or perhaps the worst, the polluter in Western Europe. I must point out that after eight years of running the Ministry of the Environment, SV was not the worst polluter in Western Europe mentioned in a word in the attitude of the previous government. The previous government’s commitment to symbol policy — almost unconditionally — has clearly gone at the expense of real-world policy solutions. This is not least evident in the north — their main strategic field, where Norilsk Nickel is completely excluded. And not enough for Norilsk Nickel to be left out: lately, it also appears that Norwegian aid and assistance over many years to secure and maintain Russian nuclear power stations in Kolahalvaya have led to the Russian authorities extending the lifetime of the nuclear power stations for many years – nuclear power stations of the same date as the Chernobyl plant. Assistance completely without counterclaims is rare of the good. This is not good news and is a bear service to the general population of the North Callot and to the people of East Finnland in particular. I have to ask, where have the red-greens been for eight years when you've been able to sit quietly and accept this kind of development?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3417	Climate discussions all too often end up dealing only with the purchase and sale of allowances, CO2 prices and technical details. It's important because it's part of the solution, but it can also make us forget what it's really about. It's about in the Philippines they have so many typhoons that they no longer have a name for them, that millions of people are driven away, that the rice fields in Bangladesh can be submerged, so that people lose their livelihood. It's not about technical details, it's about people. That's why we're in a hurry to act. The climate crisis is in many ways two crises. One is global warming and more extreme weather. The second crisis is that we all know about it, but we can't solve it. That is why we need more ambitious politicians. It may sound like a cliché, but that's actually what the truth is: climate change is our very biggest challenge. It should be noted, then, that when the new government gave itself eight challenges, it was challenge no. 1st@item: inlistbox But it wasn't number. 1, that wasn't number. 2 – that wasn't one of the challenges at all. Is this where the Progress Party got a hit? Are these the new state councils that have claimed that climate change is almost a socialist idea of introducing taxes and taxes? Was it the trade that acknowledged climate change against saying it was not such an important matter? The Prime Minister said that climate action should now go from word to action. But the action should prove to be cut. Because when Siv Jensen presented a new state budget, it was cut to CO2 handling, cut to Transnova, cut to the environmental organisations, and the biggest part was cut to the rainforest, at 400 million. kr. The Right Party and the Advance Party say to the Boring that they only had three weeks on them, but the worse it is, they actually chose to spend their time on. I understand that our new Environment Minister must loyally defend the budget, but I really hope it was not that when they met at the government conference, and they first decided to spend 4 billion. kr more than the red-green provided, raised the Minister for the Environment and proposed a cut to the rainforest of 400 million. kr. If that was the case, and she regrets that the Storting has corrected some of the cuts, I am really worried about the government's climate policy. I don't think it was like that. I think the minister lost the fight internally in the government, among other things. against a Minister of Finance who has never been particularly concerned with climate or development. They cut for spending money on other things, for example. tax cuts to Norway's richest. I understand that the Minister of Finance did that priority – because why should she solve a problem she hardly believes in? I think, unfortunately, that we will notice that about half the government comes from a party that still has a sort of ongoing seminar if they believe in the man-made climate change or not. Gro Harlem Brundtland became the world's Environment Minister. She launched the slogan: think globally, act locally. That's exactly what we have to do. We have to think about the big picture. We have to do everything we can in the world, but at the same time we have to act here at home in Norway. We in the Workers' Party are satisfied with what we got when we were in government. Below us, greenhouse gas emissions went down, and they are now lower than in a very long time. But no politician can say that you've done enough, you can never be satisfied, because the challenge is so big. That is why we will always work for an even better environmental policy – now from the opposition. Environmental policy is about more than climate. It's about nature protection and biodiversity. Here, too, we are concerned about the direction of the new government. The Minister for the Environment opens the way for free movement in the countryside, and the Minister for Oil and Energy will take less account of the nature diversity law. Both of these proposals run through without being dealt with in the Storting by calling them trials and interpretations. It is possible they are afraid to lose things here in Stortinget, where there may be a long way between the government and its supporting parties. Another proposal where there is a great distance is in the view of thorium. This is stated in the government statement, but now in Stortinget, all parties – with the exception of the Right Party and the Advance Party – have written in their comments that they do not want to go further. After all, we expect the government to realise that there is no majority in favour of this proposal and that the proposal is put in a drawer. The government has been sitting for only two months, but the direction it has chosen is a bad sign of climate policy, both at home in Norway and our climate policy towards the world. In environmental policy, the promise to the Right of new ideas and better solutions has so far become old ideas and poor solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3444	When designing new policies, it is necessary to have a generation perspective in mind. In an even better way than today, the revenues our generation receives from the petroleum industry must be used to create lasting values, for the best both for us who are a little above noon height, and for our children and their children again. I am therefore very pleased that the cooperation agreement between the four parties and the Government Declaration has the generational idea as a red thread through many policy areas. It is important that young people have confidence that they will have something to live on in the future. This was a recurring theme among the young, but also among many grandparents that I talked to during the long election campaign. Many would argue that Norway has won the lottery in several areas. We have natural resources other countries can envy us, like oil, hydropower and fish – to name a few. The development of renewable energy needs to be increased and governments will pursue offensive climate policies and strengthen climate reconciliation. We also need to build our policies on the responsibility of the administrator and the precautionary principle. The globe we're going to leave to our children is going to be in at least as good a condition as the one we took from our ancestors. Norway is fortunate with a varied, lush and clean nature. We have strong traditions for hunting, fishing and outdoor life, based on the right of all persons to free movement in the outland. Biodiversity in Norway is best addressed through a combination of sustainable use and voluntary protection. It is important here to underline the value of private property rights and that landowners are fully compensated for the economic consequences of a safeguard decision. My experience is that private owners feel a historical responsibility to take care of the property that has often been inherited through the genealogy, and that they put their honor in a wise and long-term management of the resources. I am pleased that an increase of 100 million has been proposed in the appropriations for new forest protection. kr compared to 2013. This makes it possible to take protection decisions for many areas where voluntary protection agreements have already been concluded. Good management of our nature is also important for outdoor life, which has a long and good tradition in Norway. Even I come from a state where the children may no longer be born skiing on their legs. There has been little snow in Eastfold in the last decades, but the forest and nature are also used extensively here. Getting into fresh air regularly is good for health and can also save the health service for unnecessary treatments. So it makes sense to give 15.3 million. kr more for outdoor purposes compared to 2013. The government has also announced that it will prepare a big message to strengthen the outdoors, which I hope will be a high priority. A good aquatic environment also means a great deal to outdoors and business development. In my home state of Eastfold, much of the historical development is based on waterways and their exploitation. Although today timber is mostly transported on the road, ships and tracks to the factories of Borregård and Norwegian Forest Saugbrugs, the watercourses are still being used industriously. In order to follow up the EU Water Directive and provide cleaner watercourses, more is needed than plans and fine words; concrete measures are needed that work. This work has been underfunded systematically in recent years and has an economic slowdown of several hundred million. The government is increasing this item by 15 million. NOK, which I hope will be a start on intensifying this important work. Finally, I would like to add some comments to the appropriations under the Riksantikvaren. The protection of cultural memories is important for understanding Norwegian cultural heritage and history and also means a lot from a generation perspective. Many private owners of buildings make great efforts to preserve these and other cultural memories. The majority of the Committee expects the government to return to the State budget for 2015 with a review of various instruments to strengthen the economic framework conditions in this area. The majority also want to strengthen the protection of vessels, while insisting on the important polluter pays principle. Therefore, the allocation of ship protection over the budget of the Riksantikvaren is increased by 5 million. kr, while removing the compensation for the CO2 tax. This presupposes that the government facilitates this increase in the benefits of the vessels that should have had this compensation. It is a good budget that is being presented today, and I would like to thank the entire Committee for constructive cooperation when it is being examined.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3473	At Soria Moria, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre promised to pursue a policy based on justice and community. We formed a government together in 2005 to give people in Norway freedom, security – freedom to live meaningful lives, security to work, to have their own economy and solid welfare services. Our vision was to leave to the next generation something more valuable than what we took over. Eight years of safe governance have contributed to a strong growth in prosperity and well-being, while at the same time reducing societal disparities and increasing diversity. We closed our guard with Europe's lowest unemployment and over 350 000 more in work, active climate policy, historical investment on the road and track, full child care coverage at an affordable price, a school that is getting better and better, population growth in all parts of the country and a strengthened effort for research, innovation and industrial development across the country. Few — if any — countries have pursued national climate policies as active as Norway, with as strong instruments and with as high ambitions. Few — if any — countries also pursue a more active international climate policy than Norway. The Labour Party has had a credibility in climate policy. Unfortunately, there is a little bit more uncertainty in the future, with a new blue-blue government. Since 2005, when the government of Stoltenberg joined, annual greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced by 1.2 tonnes per capita in Norway. Emission intensity in the Norwegian economy – i.e. greenhouse gas emissions per unit GDP – has fallen by over 40pst. since 1990. The Norwegian economy is currently about half as high in emissions as the European average. Our share of renewable energy is second highest in Europe, after Iceland. This is the result of an active national policy, which has been exacerbated in the last eight years. This tells of a climate policy that has worked. For example, emissions from new passenger cars have fallen by almost 30 pst. Analyses carried out by the Ministry of Finance show that most of the decline is due to the fact that the government has shifted the car charges to focus heavily on the environmental characteristics of the car. Few – if any – countries today have as good conditions for cars with low CO2 emissions as Norway. We sell a lot of cars running on electricity and hybrid cars. Those numbers don't mean that we're there, that we're satisfied. Much work remains to be done to reduce emissions and make Norway a low-carbon society. Then we must never forget that the climate problem is not a Norwegian problem, but to those degrees is a global common problem. We can only manage to solve climate problems through broad international cooperation. If we fail, it will go beyond those who are at least responsible for causing the problem. That is why, in the last eight years, the outgoing government has placed great emphasis on working internationally with climate. The red-green government has implemented a number of measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to create technology development. Some of the most important measures are a new climate and energy fund, an increase in CO2 tax on the base and a commitment to public transport. We take responsibility for climate action both outdoors and at home through cooperation with other countries on rainforest protection, the purchase of greenhouse gases and by investing in renewable energy and collective action at home. The challenge is that the new government is now cutting significantly in one of the most important measures we have globally, namely rainforest. It's partially reversed by the center parts. But my point is the level of ambition of the government. Saving the rainforest is one of the most effective measures to achieve large emissions reductions quickly. In addition to contributing to poor countries, emissions of dangerous substances abroad are cut. It brings great benefits to local environments and to people's health. In Trondheim, they have taken environmental measures seriously through the Environmental Package. With a package of nearly 10 billion. They want to contribute to better roads and better, cheaper and faster buses. But this is a package that is underfunded with approx. 300 million. kr. Therefore, Trondheim Labour Party will send an interpellation to the City Council asking that the bulk of the population – as they have committed themselves to increasing public transport and road investment – support the environmental package with increased State co-financing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3500	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3503	To sweep for yourself is no stupid idea when you very much want to sweep for the door of others. The red-green government is pleased to produce Norwegian climate policy as a success, and Norway as a forerunner. The truth is that it has limped in some areas. The belief that what could first and foremost be achieved was that which could be achieved internationally, and was what the monnet, has been prominent in Norwegian environmental and climate policies, while what could be achieved at home has in a sense been more secondary. ‘What you are capable of, discard in the nearest requirement’ shall be the clue to Norwegian climate policy. 70 pst. the greenhouse gas emissions in the metropolitan area come from transport. This should lead to a strong commitment to public transport in the area. But no, fornebu is building a town with 25 000 people the size of Lillehammer. The history of Fornebubanen is a cultural policy and an environmental policy miser. Daily 750 buses travel to Fornebu and bring 12,000 workers to work. For too long, this path has been in limbo. The history of Fornebubanen is the history of the state's games against Akershu County Municipality, Bærum Municipality and Oslo Municipality. Too much effort has been put on these to achieve the Fornebuban. The story of Fornebubanen is the story of repeated lifting breaks, red-green discharge and amateur transport planning. Already in 2002, Minister of Transport, Terje Moe Gustavsen, from the Workers' Party, promised 600 million. kr to the track – money that never came. With 350 000 new inhabitants in the metropolitan area, the state simply has to take greater responsibility in collective development, otherwise the transport system is going to collapse. Therefore, the Right-Fremskritsparte government will ensure that the State covers 50 pst. the costs of expanding rail public transport in the capital area, including the Fornebubanen. There had to be a red-green government to break the rail freight. Today 1 million tonnes of less freight is transported on the railway than was done in 2008. It corresponds to 300000 combinations of vehicles. That's why the government is paying so much – up to several hundred million dollars more on rail than the red-green ones. It's climate policy, and it's taking the climate deal seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3522	For the Christian People's Party, this has been a special budget harvest. The form of parliamentary cooperation that our four parties are now trying out is rare, and virtually unbridled in Norwegian context. We have a minority government consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party that governs on the basis of a cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. Our parties agree to manage the political majority jointly and, at the same time, the Christian People's Party is clear on its role as a constructive opposition party in the Stortinget. In the special political situation of government change, the draft budget of the outgoing government and the supplementary proposal of the Solberg government, the Christian People's Party has chosen not to promote its own alternative budget proposal. Instead, we have developed our own internal priorities, which we have promoted in the negotiations with the government parties, both in the financial committee and in the individual sectoral committees. I was therefore excited about the budgetary procedure in our committee. Experience when we are finished is that the government parties have shown a positive willingness to cooperate in the budgetary process. The Christian People's Party has had an impact on matters that are important to us, including the Committee. I am particularly pleased that we have found room for increased funding for outdoors, ship protection and the National Park Centre in the event of re-priorities within the Committee's framework. Every year the Christian People's Party, with a red-green government, has underlined the importance of open-air life for well-being and public health and demanded a more offensive effort. That's why I'm glad we started the investment with $3 million. in increased appropriations for the open-air organisations and the archipelago. I have great expectations of a lift for the outdoors in the outdoors news that has been announced in the government platform. I am also pleased with the increased allocation of 5 million vessel protection. kr. We maintain the polluter-pays principle and remove the compensation for the CO2 tax, but thus increase the allocation of the Riksantikvaren budget to the ships that would have had the tax compensation. The Christian People’s Party is committed to ensuring the promptest possible introduction of tax deductions for an entity by preventing temporary market failure. A system of tax credit for an additional measure must be easy to manage for the equality authorities and easy to deal with for the taxpayers. The increment deduction must be introduced independently of any ROT deduction. The Government is requested to implement the scheme as soon as possible, and at the latest in the context of the 2015 State budget. This is an important clarification that the Christian People's Party now expects to be followed up by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3540	Is proper medicine to reduce the divisiveness of the Norwegian economy to spend even more oil money and so make Norway even more dependent on oil? Is it the right medicine and growth promotion to cut into important growth packages and measures such as: fisheries or forestry? Is it proper medicine and a sign of stable framework conditions for the power-generating industry to rock the CO2 compensation system, or is it growth-promoting? Of course not. The Labour Party has worked hard to secure schemes that secure the industry's access to power at decent prices. The crown of this work was the CO2 compensation scheme. Our hydropower-based industry was screened for the part of the power price that came from European power plants having to buy allowances for their CO2 emissions. When the Right Party and the Progress Party presented their budget, we got a lot of rhetoric about competitiveness, less oil dependency and growth-promoting tax cuts. The reality is that the blue-blue policy is a threat to the workplace and the construction of the country as a whole. The cut in CO2 compensation schemes triggered strong reactions from industry, trade unionists and local politicians around the country. During the night, they were given a new insecurity and the opportunity to invest at Hydro in Høyanger and Årdal. Although the threat of strikes and massive resistance led the government now to stick to its proposals, the blue-blue budget proposal has nevertheless created uncertainty about the industry's framework conditions. Hydrodirector Halvor Molland said to Haugesunds Avis on 14 November: ‘These sudden and unexpected changes in the framework conditions make planning for the future even more demanding. Large, long-term investments in Norway — as we have seen in recent years — are becoming more difficult to imagine. The government spokespersons strongly defended the system until the last minute, and the government party will not support a note there. ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure predictability for Norwegian industry by maintaining a fully-fledged CO2 compensation scheme in the contractual period until 2020.’; We can therefore fear that this presented will appear again in the next turn, and we can all see that long-term framework conditions are just words – they are just words – from this government. The size must have as a principle and as a political guide that Norwegian industry should be subject to good, competitive and robust framework conditions. Part of this is that the CO2 compensation scheme is maintained as a fully-fledged scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3589	There are several questions that remain unanswered after the round of debate we have had, and after the answers and speeches that have come from the two government councils. I will address several of the unanswered questions. Let me start with electrification of the height of Outsira. The central issue for Tord Lien is not the examination of the individual decision that comes at the moment when you are on the license and submits a proposal on how to resolve it. The key point is that Tord Lien maintains the requirements for all those already authorised to use renewable energy from land. The problem is as follows: All those who have been authorised will of course prefer not to take new costs. It concerns Lundin, and it concerns Norwegian. But is Tord Lien willing to press and say to the oil companies that sit on the Utsira Height and have been allowed, that you have to arrive at a cost distribution, because otherwise I will decide what the cost distribution will be, to ensure that the Electrification of the Utsira Height is put in place? Therefore, the central signals that must come from Tord Lien here today are that he has thought that the entire height of Utzira should be electrified, and that the requirements will be met – as the red-green government provided for in our treatment of this earlier. The second question is about one thing that has not been raised in the debate, what is going on in the Environment DG's work on green procurement in the public sector. There was a proposal for a cut by the Minister for the Environment. I realized that it was the flag that was very clear from the government parties that they wanted to bet on more environmentally friendly public procurement, but so they chose – as far as I understood – to cut the entire department that is actually working on this. Is that the truth? Will that department be closed? What about more environmentally friendly public procurement? The last thing I want to mention is the question of scooter driving. Nor did there come a clear clarification on the part of the Minister for the Environment. This was from the red-green government meant as an experiment, limited to 40 municipalities. The experiment has been extended to 100 municipalities, but it is intended to go from 2014 to 2018. However, before the experiment is completed and experience can be gained from the experiment, the government intends to implement a change in the law that allows for more scooter driving. How can one start a test where one has not intended to wait for the results of the experiment before deciding to implement legislative changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3603	The President must point out that the person Tord Lien is not present in the Chamber, while the Council of State Tord Lien is represented.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3606	The red-green government was engaged in pursuing a long-term, sustainable and predictable business policy, a business that could be present throughout the country. For example, the process industry is: an industry that employs many thousands of workers and creates large export values for the country, but is also very competitive. For industry, it has been particularly important to put in place a CO2 compensation scheme. We got that – until Solberg's government proposed to halve it. Fortunately, the Left and Christian People's Party had this reversed, but the belief that the government can be regarded as predictable is significantly weakened, and there is a great deal of uncertainty about what kind of framework conditions will apply in the future. International owners are sceptical about investment, because this has created considerable uncertainty. Today’s debate has also created no more certainty – on the contrary. The Workers’ Party’s proposal, together with others, to adopt here in this Chamber that the government should ensure predictability for Norwegian industry by maintaining a fully-fledged CO2 compensation scheme in the contractual period until 2020 does not appear to be supported, nor does it appear from the Left and Christian People’s Party. The Right Party and the Advance Party like to present themselves as the leading figures and guarantors of good business conditions, but here we unfortunately see the exact opposite. It seems that the propulsion part is a little tired of finding itself in position. The Cooperation Agreement shall agree on the following: ‘Not to open up petroleum activities, or to ensure consistency under the Petroleum Act, the sea areas outside the Lofoten, the Western Seabed and the Senja in the period 2013-2017’. The Minister of Oil and Energy has been on tour in Northland and Troms. There he said: ‘We need to balance fisheries with oil. The areas outside the Western Sea and Lofoten should be opened in a manner that is safe for both fish and oil.» It may actually seem that one of the most important messages of the Minister of Oil and Energy when he visited Harstad was that now the voices from the north had to be strengthened, and that the people had to be mobilized for extraction. In today's debate, we also hear the representative Oskar J. Grimstad at one moment defend the cooperation agreement at this point, and then attack the Christian People's Party on why they have fought so hard to put the Lofoten and the Vesterål on hold. After all, it is the Grimstad government that has laid this down in its declaration, and it is he who has to come up with solutions for what to do now in the Lofoten and the West, not the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3635	State Council Lien called for a reply in the reply to whether I was satisfied with the red-green commitment to renewable energy. The answer to that is yes. We put in place electrical certifications and approval procedures, network deployment is under way – there is every reason to be satisfied and have great expectations that this bet will be continued. I also want to challenge Councillor Lien to clarify one thing. It concerns thorium. A majority have said that you do not want an FME centre for thorium. Can the council now say that the thorium dreams of the Progress Party and the Right are being put in a drawer, or will we get this back in some form? I think thorium is good in the drawer. So to the government council Sundtoft, there's been talk about motor travel in outland with scooters. For the Center Party, it's like we've programmed local administration, and we're strong against a release. I am pleased that we have chosen to continue the test system that we started, but I think it is a little simple that there is a rather complicated strategy that has been put forward, with both such a comprehensive testing system and a legislative process. I could well imagine that the Council of State elaborated a little more on how this was supposed to be. The center party is a party that is positive to increased local government, but we think we have to do this in the right way. Then it will be central to know how early a modification of the motor racing law can be in place. Is it possible to keep it in place in 2014? Are we talking about 2015? Are we talking about 2016? From my point of view, it is enough that when the system has become so wide, it is important to put in place a permanent solution. Because if a scheme that includes all the Scooter municipalities lasts for maybe four plus one year, it would be hard to reverse it if you wanted the permanent solution to be slightly different. I can imagine some answers to that. So there's been a little talk about transportation, which is important for the climate. The representative of the Harek Rivers boasted of the Fornebubanen who was to come immediately. We have later learned that it is once gone in 2017–2018 that it is construction start. Finally, the most eye-catching thing in this debate is that Oskar J. Grimstad, who is saying that he is building his climate vision more on what is in the political platform and programme of the Progress Party. He trusts that, and he does, but he does not trust the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. I think it has been a strange experience to hear that, but we have noted that position.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3650	A lot of people think of Northernland as a seafood group. We are, and we are proud of that. But Nordland is also an important industrial group. We certainly have plans to continue to be that way. Yes, we actually have ambitions to become an even bigger and more important industrial group. Unfortunately, the government is now doing everything it can to disguise the opportunities for industrial development and growth. I am most concerned about the power-intensive industry. We're talking about high-tech companies, which are in a very tough international competition. There are plenty of countries that do everything in their power to locate this production. I myself visited one of these companies, Elkem Salten, on the day the CO2 compensation scheme was presented. Saying that it was well received is no exaggeration. We received messages from all over the country about new optimism in the Norwegian process industry. Then came the government change and after each additional proposition from the government. Saying that the same industry was shocked is no exaggeration either, to use a well-known description by representatives at least from one of the government parties. Fortunately, the storm we witnessed to the government helped the government turn around. But if this had still only been about heads and ears, everything would have been well. Unfortunately, it's also just as much about predictability, and whether you can rely on political promises. Alcoa in the Baltic Sea is now describing an uncertainty that has contributed, as they themselves say, to creating curls in the investment plans. I hereby challenge the government to guarantee that they will maintain a fully-fledged CO2 compensation scheme so that the owners can safely implement the investment plans they have. I heard the Minister for Climate and Environment reply in reply with the representative of Aasland, so I have no desire to repeat that. What is even more important, and the industry and these companies need to hear, is that a full compensation system is being continued. In order to restore confidence, the government must provide such a guarantee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3671	When I drew myself on the list of speakers, I thought it went towards the end of the debate, but I see it doesn't. I still want to thank the Christian People's Party and the Left for the cooperation we have had in Stortinget, but also, of course, our own for the work they have done. Then to predictable industry framework conditions. We, both the Right Party and the Advance Party, but also our friends in Stortinget, have great ambitions to increase the production of renewable energy in Norway. It will give us a surplus of power in the long term, which will be an advantage to the industry. It is also the case that the power-generating industry that will be the best in the long term is the power-generating industry that operates most renewablely – it does in Norway – and most energy-efficiently. Therefore, a strengthening of the work of Enova is among others. reducing emissions of CO2 but also using energy more efficiently, of great importance. Then I have been challenged on the Internet balancing system, among other things. by the representative Ljunggren, who says that this will not help to make the network ownership more robust. I think that's wrong. We have made sure that the customers who are hardest hit are protected during the course that remains. But at least it has been my goal to send a signal that we want to continue working to make the network companies more robust in the future. It is absolutely necessary if we are to meet both climate change and build more robust networks. And if we're going to phase in more renewable energy and get the AMS, advanced measurement and management systems, which I have an ambition to do, as opposed to the red-green government, this has to be in place. So the representative Eidsvoll Holmås asked me about the electrification of the height of Utsira. He's always showing that the red-green government made it right. Yeah, we'll do that. Then he asks me to make demands. There is no system that has been electrified due to requirements from the authorities so far. Negotiations are now under way among the licensing partners in the Sverdrup field. My view of this is that we should make a solution that is best suited to safety, the environment and the economy, and will, of course, keep the Storting informed about it in the usual way. Then I think it's a little bit sought out – I shouldn't say that – but a little bit surprising, that someone thinks it's strange that the Progress Party and the Right have a different starting point on the question of the Lofoten and the West Pole than the Left and Christian People's Party has. But that is how we relate to the agreement that has been concluded.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3689	I think the debate so far has shown that with the new Greatness, much of the power has moved back to the Greatness – not least when so many parties point out that the budget we are now adopting has become a better environmental budget and with a much better environmental profile than what was presented by the current government and, in the opinion of the Left, far better than what the red-green government presented. I would also like to thank the Committee, because it is now more powerful in the Grand Duchy, that the work of the Committee has also become more important. You can make necessary adjustments where necessary, including: by decision in respect of an increase, to receive tax deductions for an increment measure, with a clear progress plan. We have received a strengthening, among other things, by the protection of the watercraft, enabling ski leaves to sail as normal until the next year. We have received a sum for national parks centres and other nature information centres that allow us, for example: may strengthen the Round Information Centre, and a number of other things that make committee work important throughout the final phase of budgetary work. It's always like this in the budgets, that there's something that needs to be done in the details at the end. Otherwise, the debate shows that no one is spending more time creating uncertainty about the CO2 compensation scheme than the Workers' Party. In post-post submissions, it appears that you want this uncertainty to have a rhetorical point, which is strange when there is a majority in favour of maintaining the CO2 compensation scheme. It's got to be stuck. Then I also notice the disappointment in the Workers' Party that the new majority in four new years has ensured that we are not going to have petroleum activity outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and the Senja, which underlines, at least in the Left, the importance of having now a majority on the civil side, which can provide that security, and where we have had a necessary impact in order not to have petroleum activity there. Otherwise, I think the debate has shown two things: there is a significant will at least in what is said in terms of strengthening climate reconciliation, and we need a much more offensive climate policy in the years to come. The budget is a good estimate for that. That's the result we have to measure, and the result is about what goals we set. But it is also about what concrete decisions we make when the individual cases come. The zira height is an example of where you have to make the right decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3713	Rigmor Andersen Eide has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3716	The reason why I take the floor again is the answer that I received from the Council of State Sundtoft when it came to the snowmobile test, because it feels like untidy. What the Council of State says is that the experiment should last until 2018, while at the same time initiating the legislative change process. Does this mean that the changes to the law only come after the experiment has been evaluated, or is it necessary to amend the law at the same time as the attempt is under way – an attempt aimed at finding out the consequences and whether it makes sense to make a change to the law? There is concern and uncertainty about when legislative changes will come. Is it going to be in this or is it going to be in the next period? This seems very undemocratic.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3721	I had prepared the post before the last question came, so I come back in a new three-minute post about snowmobiles. It is gratifying that the debate on climate issues arouses a strong commitment to the Storting. It is also gratifying that there is so much commitment to finding policy solutions together. That's right, as Ola Elvestuen says, power is now in the Storting. But the government is clear that we need to improve some of the measures in the climate agreement, and we also need to introduce new measures – it is worth choosing green. We will also provide direct State investment grants for large public transport projects covering half of the costs. We have to add to a policy that also meets the needs of the big cities. We have started with a green tax shift and the polluter pays principle is a good starting point. Then there's been some attack on climate and forest activity. I believe it is a strength for the project that there is also a broad political consensus here on the level and predictability up to 2020. It means a lot to developing countries, and it means a lot to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. But we also want a guarantee that the money will be spent, as the National Auditorate was also concerned about. That's why we've said we want a review. The government said we should spend up to 3 billion. kr if needed. Now it's changed to a fixed grant of 2.8 billion. kr, and that's what I call an agreement on the level. The Energy and Environment Committee has given a clear marshall on the matter of rapid clarification of the tax deduction. That's what the government's going to do. Then there are also questions about the mineral industry. The responsibility for pollution lies with the Environment Directorate, and we say that we need a strict environmental monitoring of mining and landfill. And then there's been more comments about moving the plane department. Let me again stress that we are one government with a complete responsibility. It is the same law for the same purpose and clarity of the administrative responsibility that is now to be exercised in another department. The Ministry of Climate and Environment will follow up the responsibility for the environment with the Nature Diversity Act. It is possible to have environmental requirements in public procurement without providing funds for diffi for this purpose. The strengthening of the climate agreement is not done in a hand-turn, it requires both large and small political action. We have now started this work in this year's budget, and in the coming years we will follow it up and go from word to action with our cooperation parties, the Left and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3736	Two years ago, I joined in the debate on the big news about the petroleum industry. She had been given the title Ein nourishment for the future. A good and covering title there, but I also want to call it the welfare message. Much of our well-being today comes from petroleum activity over the last 40 years, and not just the fact that oil and gas were found off our coast. Even more important, we have managed resources wisely, which have been for the benefit of the whole community. And when we now debate next year's budget before this policy area, it is also appropriate to recall this important basis. Both the financial debate and the budget debates are now under way before the various policy areas are moving a long way towards the distribution and use of funds generated by our oil and gas activities. One of the success criteria for the Norwegian petroleum industry, and for the whole of our maritime industry for that part, is that we are strong in the whole value chain. The whole country is involved in this, with around 250,000 related to industry. In my home country, Hordaland, we expect that over 30,000 people have their daily work – with world-class competence – related to exploration, search, manufacturing, processing, operation and maintenance, and not least research, development and education. We're dealing with an industry that's global. In order for us to also be world-leading as a complete petroleum nation in the future, it is very important that we secure the whole value chain, including with contract forms that produce Norwegian industrial growth. I am very pleased that, in its plural remarks, the committee is so clearly expressing its concern that we have experienced that many large shipyards have recently gone to Asian shipyards, and that Norwegian shipyards and engineering companies have lost their competition. Here, oil companies have to think more long-term, even in terms of where they recruit their professionals. When the Committee has clearly stated that the government is actively following up the work being done under the KonKraft regime to strengthen the Norwegian supplier industry in their situation, it will now be decisive to secure a complete Norwegian value chain and competitiveness in an industry that is truly for the future. I really hope that the Council of State notices this and follows closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3758	First of all, I want to secure the representative Anna Ljunggren and say that the Progress Party is in top shape, and we enjoy the situation in which we are, together with the Right in Government. For some it is that the snowmobile thing becomes a matter that becomes very fast black-and-white. I would at least stress that in my world there are an incredible number of beautiful colors, and my world will never be black and white. I've always loved to go for a walk. It could be with the scooter, and it could be without the scooter. To tell a little story from Finnmark, where we've had fleas for 30 years – we've had the opportunity to enjoy nature: I pack and get ready in the morning to go for a walk. I've never felt in my whole life that my daughter sings more than when we're going on a trip. You get over the first climb, you see the width is in front of you in an amazingly beautiful sunlight, and you hear the skis intersecting through the crowd. I look down at the speedometer on the scooter, it shows that you are in 50–60 km/h, and you really enjoy the day. Around the next odd side of the water we take to the right and run into a bay. There are very fast 20 and 30 families who are in good health and who are kissing themselves. The kids are on the ice with their parents. They learn how to drill fish holes, they learn how to fish. The slightly larger ones are doing keeling or leveling. The biggest kids are either snowboarding or skiing. We adults are very often around the coffee fire, where the talk sits loose. You can clearly see that there are people who make a big choice in nature. But time goes by quickly, suddenly the evening is there and it's time to go back. I hear my daughter singing again. Then I always stop at a lookout point, where I see the little fjord I live at and some houses, and I think, God, thank you for a nice day. The best thing about us in Finnmark is that we admire the other people in Norway who want to share such an experience – we share it with everyone. Some think this is relevant for Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim. I guess that's a little bit likely. But for the municipalities that want it, and who have applied for it, no one has forced it on them. But for some, it's like they think the elite is going to mess with the districts out there. For the Progress Party, it is very simple: we believe in local democracy, and therefore we want a local solution that is strict, but that is sensible and that everyone can put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3771	I want to say that the story that the representative now told me reminds me very much of some of the ski tours I've had with both children and grandchildren – it was just that I could hear that they were singing all along, because there was no motor roar that destroyed the ski tours. We have now received a Minister for Climate and Environment who has to be responsible for achieving the climate targets in all sectors. That is why I share the concern that the same minister does not have a hand in some important areas of the climate, but has given them to others. It's worrying. One of the areas affected by this budget is bioenergy. Bioenergy targets are an increase of 14 TWh. The government has cut the energy chips scheme. Eidsiva Energi, Viken and Mjøsen Skog, several of these, say that now stop the investment in forest chips as a source of bioenergy. So 8 of the 14 TWhs that were to be reached in this area were to be reached with forest chips. The scheme is now gone. The industry says that it is not profitable to do so without a grant, while the government in its documents says that the main consideration is competition on the evidence. In Stortingen yesterday we also heard that it was a temporary arrangement, which was therefore to be removed, and some also thought that the market could handle this alone, sail if the industry says it does not work. At least it does not matter if the government has not intended to increase the price of electricity or oil strongly in relation to today, and I have not heard it say that. Not one representative heard me yesterday from the government parties that were concerned that we should achieve the objectives of bioenergy. I would like to ask the Minister for Climate and Environment what her plan is to achieve the objectives of bioenergy, when one of the mechanisms that has really speeded up this area and gets its volume up. I want to say that done right – I want to underline it, done right – is a commitment to bioenergy from e.g. forest chips a cheek egg, also because it provides jobs in the districts, where there is not so much activity already. Forestry has a high potential for many jobs. Akershus County has, for example: calculates that there could be 4,500 to 6,000 new jobs on this if you do it right. It's not to germinate, and in many of the counties, the potential is greater. So what will the minister do?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3782	The significance of carbon capture and storage is enormous. It's not as the representative Hansson almost suggested, that this is something we're doing to make it possible to continue to produce oil and gas from Norwegian base, but it's a recognition that fossil energy is going to be perhaps the most important energy carrier in the next decades and an important energy carrier in the world in the foreseeable future. Today, we have a situation where coal and other fossil energy sources account for the brunt of the power supply. These emissions will continue because they are away locked in existing emission sources. I saw now in India, there they are offering two coal-fired power plants that together will have the same capacity as all installed renewable energy in India for the future. This will be installed without the capture technology being included in the load. This says something about the importance of developing a technology that can mitigate greenhouse gas emissions within what already exists. I can add that I also heard that in Germany there are ten new coal-fired power plants going on, so it's a development. The capture and storage of CO2 is an immeasurably important technology to develop. I regret that the development stops, slows down, in Norway now, and it still hangs in the air what the Council of State really thinks about when it is said that a new strategy will be developed. When does this strategy come into place? Is the Council of State at all concerned that we can have a weathering of both our capacity and our competence in this field, which we have built up through a rather offensive and tough effort by the red-green government? Mongstad is made by some as a failure. I will certainly reject that. In Mongstad, we have spent time, forces and a lot of money developing skills that can be used generically in other areas. This project was stopped before we went into completely Mongstad-specific costs. The knowledge is there. We know, for example. that in the context of the CCS project at Boundary Dam in Canada now demand knowledge of amines that were generated in the work with Mongstad. This work that has been done is important. We have to make sure that we do not lose momentum, and that we are still one of the leading nations in the world to develop a technology that is absolutely necessary for the future. When will the strategy be put in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3794	I guess we'll just have to confirm that the new government, the Right Party and the Advance Party, deliver quickly and efficiently. I think it's kind of funny – I've heard a lot of representatives, including Henriksen, from the red-green parties, who have been very satisfied with the efforts of the red-green government on climate issues. I guess I find that a little surprising – it might have been time for a little self-criticism. The majority – the red-green, as far as I know – of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs are so in doubt about what they think about what has happened in Mongstad, that they have called not only four oil and energy ministers to consult on Mongstad, but also a former Prime Minister. So maybe you should try to be a little bit self-critical. I believe that the quick way has been tried to get full-scale carbon capture and storage. I mean, now we have to spend the time that's going to happen. I think the representative of Astrup illustrated our goal in an exemplary way. What we're going to contribute to building, must become an example to follow, I think were the words he used. We have an ambition to deliver at least one full-scale demonstration facility for CO2 capture by 2020. We all know that's going to be demanding. Then it is all the more important that when we start this process, we choose good, robust solutions. Of course, we need some time to figure this out. Then I agree with the representative Henriksen that the testing centre in Mongstad has partly delivered the goods, and that is something we will include in the work on a strategy. The size will be kept informed about the work, and this will be done in 2014. Then to the representative Pollestad, who said that ‘network development is under way’. Yes, it's possible that you've started, that's right. Now we also strengthen Statnet's equity in the year's budget. But let me remind you that we started the process with Ørskog-Fardal in 2005 to supply Middle Norway with electricity. It's not yet finished. We all remember Sima – Samnanger. Then the oil and energy minister in Oslo said that we had to strengthen the security of supply of Bergen – which I fully agree with – while half of the red-green staging representatives were swirling around and thought it was completely unnecessary. So there's no doubt that that work needs to be strengthened further. Then I want to remind the Chamber that this government is delivering on energy and climate issues on many fronts. Today, after a little over two months in the chair, we have delivered a joint input to the EU, which the red-green government has not been able to do in eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3810	The representative, Mr Pollestad, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3813	I'm recording that Councillor Lien is now really in the process of talking about red-green policy. I have tried to challenge the Council of State to say something about the government's policy ahead, and have called for an answer to how he perceives the comment that the majority of the population have about thorium. Will the government and the government continue to work with thorium, or does he take this as a clear signal that a majority on the Stortinget believes that Norway should not use resources for further research on thorium, in the form of setting up an FME centre? Will this then come back in another form? I think it's more important that the Council of State gives an answer to, than to tell history, which I can't always do well for, in terms of what has happened in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3818	The head of the Environment Committee, Elvesuen, said earlier in the debate that the Control Committee had sent a letter to the Council of State on this special law, the Test Act relating to the use of snowmobiles. It's true that that happened. I am referring then to this debate and, of course, I am not going to say anything about the debate in the control committee, but it is quite clear that when the government first receives a representative question, and now has also received a letter from the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee of the Storting on the use of a law adopted by the Stortinget, I assume that the government is dealing with it in a very serious way. I am briefed on the answer the Minister for the Environment has given to the representative of Terje Aasland. I would like to take this opportunity in this debate to say that if the government responds to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in the same way as the Council of State has black representative Terje Aasland, it will be necessary for the Stortinget to deal with this as a special matter, in an appropriate way. Because it is quite clear that in this answer they circumvent what is real, namely the scope of the trial scheme. It is not mentioned, and that is the case. The thing is, the government is drawing this trial scheme as far as they can, i.e., in my opinion, too far. And if the government doesn't realize it, it becomes, as I said, absolutely necessary for the Storting to handle it properly. By that I mean to say that I give the Minister of the Environment a chance in this debate, but also in his response to the Committee of Inquiry, to explain this in such a way that it is possible to deal with it, if any, within the law, and if it is not possible, it is absolutely necessary for the government to reverse this, or for the Storting to react.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3827	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3830	I am still not reassured by the answers given by the ministers to the questions we are promoting. Let me start with the first one, which is the Utzira Height. There, State Council Tord Lien answers that one should wait for the debates that are taking place, and come back and look at profitability, and everything, in this project. But the whole point is as follows: when the red-green government allowed the expansion, among other things. by Gina Krog, we said very clearly that they are allowed to expand with gas turbines, but they must be prepared for electrification. It is quite obvious that the costs have already been taken so much that it is quite possible for Gina Krog to continue without electrification. Then you just look at profitability, there will never be a project that will be implemented, because you have the option already installed. But there's the point, in the press, which was very clear to these actors: they had to put in place. Finally, I would just like to say that when the Council of State Tord Lien says that a common letter has been sent to the European Union on what is policy, without one being sure that the majority in the Grand Duchy was behind it, we think it is special. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3839	First to Karin Andersen: On a general basis, there is considerable bioenergy expenditure in the budget, but it is in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, so I cannot go into it in detail here. So to the snowmobile thing. The pilot scheme and the draft protocol for the experiment were widely discussed in a consultation letter from the Ministry of Environment in spring 2013. Then many of the recordings that came were evaluated, and were also taken into account in the work on the regulation. This is a temporary arrangement to be concluded at the latest in 2018. Then we have said that we should also start the legal work. I can't say now whether Stortinget gets the bill in 2014 or 2015, but it will definitely be in this period. Then there was an important post Martin Kolberg now had, which we of course take seriously, but that letter has been sent to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernization, so I can hardly go in and comment on it here. But the red-greens themselves wrote in their letters of consultation in the spring that it was to be evaluated on an ongoing basis, so it is possible to do it at the same time as we start legal work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3848	First of all, I was a little worried about the last response of the Minister for Climate Change and the Environment to the Test Act. In my answer to the question of the legality of the test law and its use, as it now stands, it is considered that the experience with the extended trial scheme should form the basis for the drafting of a new law. How to do it if a new law is to come to Stortinget during 2014 or early 2015, I ask at least questions. So it's okay to take some clarifications. It was said that we had had a solid reverse operation since we were in favour of an energy message. I would just like to stress what I said in the change of line: it is because it is absolutely necessary for the government parties and the parliamentary basis of the government to clarify their views on energy policy. That's why we're in favour of an energy message. It is not a turnaround, but it is necessary to clarify the views of the government parties and the parliamentary basis on energy policy. So to the climate ambitions. It might have been interesting to know when someone might be presented with a new climate report, about which there were discussions in the Stortinget earlier this autumn. We have not heard a word about it, and it will be a great strength if the Minister for Climate and Environment can say anything about it to the Stortinget. Then we've been under the Nature Diversity Act. We have an oil and energy minister who realizes that the law has an interpretation scale from zero to ten, depending on how it suits the oil and energy minister. I wonder whether the Minister for Climate and Environment is satisfied with the assessment of the Natural Diversity Act that the Minister for Oil and Energy proposes? Because if one is, I wonder how to interpret the law of natural diversity. It must be true, if you think that the law is too strict, that you come to Stortinget with embellishments of the Natural Diversity Act instead of playing on any strings that are not there. Then, as Minister of Oil and Energy, Tord Lien has talked about having great ambitions. I have not heard of one ambition from the Minister of Oil and Energy in this debate on behalf of oil and energy policy. The only ambition I've heard him talk about is actually the Law of Natural Diversity, and it came a long time before this debate started here in the Chamber. Network development, measurement systems, certificates, oil and gas conditions, which have been much discussed, are quite firm. He has not had a new coma to come with during this evening. Then I have to end with the CO2 compensation scheme. The fact that the chairman of the committee is trying to shift responsibility on us, I do not at all accept. It's both frugal and free. I would have asked that it is we who must bear the burden for an uncertainty the blue-blue government until the degrees have applied to the Norwegian industry. It's their job to clarify how they view this, and what long-termness they provide for Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3867	I miss, first of all, a more complete response from the Council of State Sundtoft to the question of how the government sees fit to take care of the concerns of Norwegian natural diversity that have been taken care of by the scheme for the management of natural diversity, and not least through the management of the Law on Planning and Building, which has been practised so far. To point out that it is immaterial where an important body is located in the administration seems so apolitical that it is a little difficult to believe that a government council believes this is actually the case. Then I want to move on to something more exciting: In the context of the European Commission's presentation of a new framework for energy and climate policy in January, the U.D. reports that the Norwegian side wants to move forward in order to achieve the new EU target of 2°C, so that the EU sets a new emission ceiling that actually ensures that the entire EU area – including Norway – delivers on the 2°C target. The government points out – quite correctly – that such a target will provide a number of emission reduction measures, and I would like to congratulate the government for stressing this! So there's two important things about this. Firstly, the government confirms with this that the allowance purchase tool, which is currently a key instrument in Norwegian climate policy, does not work. Secondly, it is confirmed that there is a need for an entirely concrete, committed, physical 2-degree target that allows all EU countries to deliver a policy that leads to the world, and the EU, and Norway, to achieve the 2-degree target. And that means, of course, that Norwegian emissions also need to go down to a far greater extent and at a much higher rate than the current policy and government's announced policy. If the EU does not lower the ceiling enough to actually match and deliver on the 2-degree target – which is very likely the EU will not do: will the government in its work on the climate communication and re-evaluate the use of quota mechanisms as a key instrument in Norway? The second question is, can the government immediately confirm that in a new energy message and in a new climate settlement play, we will commit to a physical assurance that we will deliver on the 2-degree target?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3883	The Minister for the Environment said she was happy that there was agreement on the level of rainforest activity, but then the question is: Why did her own government – why did she propose herself – suggest as dramatic a cut as they actually were proposing? I read to the council that she is happy that the Storting has increased the stake, that she is happy that the Left and Christian People's Party has negotiated an increase that is if not as large as her own cut was, so at least closer to the red-green proposal. I read her there that she agreed with us, but simply lost internally in the government. Because, as the minister knows very well, there is some reason why international negotiations are stranded, that the rich countries are not willing to be with and pay enough, and then it was a very bad signal that the world's richest government chose to propose a cut in this area. Then there was a question about the environmental organisations that got big cut. The representative Pollestad asked if there are now changes in the way we are going to support organisations in Norway, without really getting an answer. But there is a lot of evidence that you have been politicizing support, giving the most to those you agree with, and less to those you disagree with. For while most of the volunteer has been cut — and then the most environmental organisations, and in particular the People's Action for an oil-free Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja — the immigration-critical organisation Human Rights Service received much more support. Their leader said, ‘We don’t even need to apply for support. We just get the money after us." So in terms of support for volunteering, support for the organizations, there is something we're going to follow up here in Stortinget. Then the government has made itself very high and dark over a long time that it is in the Storting the power to lie – as if it has not been the Storting that has made decisions in the last four years! It's this government that moves power out of the Great Government and into the Government. We've seen it in school policy, where they see that there's no majority for grades in high school, and then they open up for trials. As far as scooter driving is concerned, we see that they might have problems implementing the scheme here in Stortinget, and then they say, "Try everyone who wants to." The Collaborative Declaration states that the Nature Diversity Act should remain in place. The party of progress disagrees, and in the government they propose to interpret it differently. I wonder if the Left and Christian People's Party is particularly pleased with that policy. Finally, the most eye-catching thing is that we have a government party that doesn't get to say from the Great Britain's pulpit that they recognise man-made climate change without making a lot of reservations. It shows that the Progress Party is still the same party in environmental policy as they have always been, and what a big mistake it was for the centre parties to open up so that they now have half the government. So I just want to end by saying good-bye to the Minister for the Environment. We want you well in your negotiations, with government councils that don't even recognise climate problems, when you sit in government conferences to negotiate a better climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3904	I will join the previous speaker. The reason why I take the floor again is that the Minister for Climate and Environment does not answer the questions we ask when it comes to climate and the environment, and I asked a question about climate. We've set ourselves some goals. Now we hope that the European Union too sets clear objectives and that we will achieve them. If we are to achieve such objectives, we must not only have an overall objective, but we must have clear and committed objectives and instruments in different sectoral areas. And who's gonna take care of that in the government? If it doesn't matter that you have a Minister for Climate and Environment, does it have to mean that you have an overall responsibility to ensure that the instruments from the government meet the objectives you have set? That is why I am asking if the Minister for Climate and Environment now has an overview of whether there are tools in place to enable us to achieve the objectives, for example. on bioenergy, when they have cut a system in the budget that the industry says will lead to their closure? And because precisely that industry is so crucial for us to achieve the objectives in this area, I believe it is important that the Minister for Climate and Environment can answer clearly in the Storting: yes, here are the instruments, so we will achieve the objectives in this area. I did not get a single answer to that. It was referred to the Ministry of Agriculture, which writes in its explanatory statement that this has nothing to do with climate or with our objectives in these areas, but that it has something to do with the price of sponges, and that there are parts of the industry that are concerned that the price should not go up for them. It is important that we get an answer to this, also based on the overall responsibility of the minister – and I remember then that we have committed ourselves to increasing the amount of bioenergy by 14 TWh by 2020. That goal we do not achieve, because the energy prices are as low as they are today, and I do not expect the minister to go out and say that she intends to increase the electricity prices so much that this becomes profitable. And it won't be profitable without support, and what will the minister do with it? So at the end of the trial scheme with scooters: a trial scheme cannot cover the whole country, nor can it be evaluated after one season. It's unthinkable to do that. Therefore, this matter has to be handled in a completely different way from that to which the government has submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3917	To the last article by the representative Andersen, it may be worth recalling that we have had an experimental system that has been evaluated and showed that five out of six targets, which were evaluated, were fully or partially met. So it was a successful trial plan. There was also talk about targets for the use of bioenergy, and I am absolutely sure that this government's policy is going to be able to meet the targets much easier than the previous government did, because it is willing to use powerful instruments to achieve it, for example. by requiring public vehicles to run on zero or low-emission fuels. It's going to help create a market. I also believe that the phasing out of fossil oil firing from 2020 will create a significant market for bio-oil. All of this is bioenergy that together contributes to the achievement of the objectives. Where the previous government was nice to set goals, this government is going to be nice to reach them, and I prefer the last. The representative Per Rune Henriksen – there are several Henriksen in the room today – has made some cheap points that we first wrote full scale ‘demonstration facilities’ about the CO2 plant instead of full scale ‘installations’. The first full-scale plant will be a demonstration plant, and the important thing is that it is full-scale – not if the word ‘demonstration’ occurs before the word ‘installation’. As soon as we were made aware of this, we said that we of course base the formulations of the climate agreement. It's completely unproblematic. I would also be allowed to say, as was also mentioned by the chairman of the committee, that in the proposal for Decision XIX, it is to be read as 'catch and storage' and the majority supports this. It should enter the setting. The representative Henriksen has also been concerned that we are taking an ‘time out’ in the field of CO2 management technology. Let me say it this way: it is absolutely necessary to take an “hour out” after the largest project in Norway had been scrapped, with the challenges that we know the project had. It is then appropriate and necessary to take a ‘time out’ and come back with a comprehensive strategy for how to achieve our objectives. It is almost unthinkable to criticise the need to put in place a comprehensive and broad strategy to achieve these objectives. There are several representatives who have been concerned about other things, but I see that my time is running out. That means I'm going to have to draw up a new post, and it's a pleasure to be allowed to extend the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3949	We have different joys. The next speaker is the representative of Ola Elvestuen. Ola Elvesuen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3954	The representative of Aasland made me take the floor one more time. I'm not going to comment on who's rude and free, but I'm going to address the issue of the CO2 compensation scheme. Now, when we from the left go in order for it to continue, we don't do it because it's going to be done one year at a time. Then, of course, there is a position that it should be continued, and that there is a majority for it, which should, in this sense, bring peace to the situation. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank you for the debate. I think it has been a good debate. It is clear that there are many things that need to be defined in terms of the specific climate objectives and measures to be taken. Here are a lot of things that have to be kicked out, both for the next year and for the future. I also hope that the government will take with it the expectations that exist regarding classical nature protection and the purpose and content of the Nature Diversity Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3966	The government also includes the expectation of classical nature protection. The Nature Diversity Act shall be in place. We're not going to change the law, but we want a more consistent practice. In between, I think it may also be beneficial for the environment that environmental issues now get into the planning process more quickly – not as you can sometimes see now: that they come to the end, and that many then perceive it as the environment that stops the plans. I think it's also beneficial for the environment that the issues get a little bit faster. To the question of climate communication: The government has not decided whether we are going to make a new climate announcement or whether we are going to have a climate policy statement in Stortinget, but that the Stortinget in 2014 will be involved in climate work is definitely. For a large part, we need to define what to do in 2014 in order to deliver our contributions to the international climate negotiations. We have a government that sees a pretty close link between climate policy and energy policy. That is why we have managed to gather to send a recording to the EU framework by 2030. When we say that we should strengthen the climate agreement, it is to make a clear input to the EU, where we support an ambitious emission reduction target and support it while continuing to invest in renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement, also part of strengthening climate reconciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3981	The representative of Terje Aasland has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3984	I am very pleased with the committee chairman's statement that the starting point for the Left is that a fully-fledged CO2 compensation scheme should be maintained until 2020. I have also not doubted the will of the Left to work for it. The reason we put forward the proposals is because the government has created the uncertainty. It is those who should now ensure that the predictability associated with it was clarified to the industry. I won't take it anymore. I understand that the government cannot commit and will commit in industrial workplaces. There are other things they'd rather commit to in the future. I think there is really reason to think more about what the Minister for Climate and Environment said now that they have now developed a common input on climate and energy into the EU framework. I think we have to get back to it in the next case, which in a good way takes that theme up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3996	The representative Nikolai Astrup has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e3999	I thought you were right to two 3-minute posts and one 1-minute post, but the rules may have changed, because I've only had the word once for a 3-minute post. But I want to start with the last speaker, the representative of Aasland, who has been very concerned that the reason he now needs an energy message is that there is so much gap between what the government parties and the constructive opposition mean in energy policy. But if someone has experience with cracks in energy policy, it has to be the red-green ones. If it was some time we needed an energy message, it was probably under the red-green. But even within the Center Party one could agree whether to have an energy message or not. At first, Åslaug Haga proposed an energy message. It was canceled by Terje Riis-Johansen, who then proposed a new message, which was then cancelled by Ola Borten Moe, who thought he had done everything in the area, so there was no need to do anything else. But the truth is that we are in the starting point of the important investments we are going to make in the future, and then it is necessary to have a unified view on just climate, food and energy issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4011	The representative Per Rune Henriksen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4014	There is clearly a need to provide a little clarification to the representative of Astrup. My criticism of the government’s ‘time out’ is not primarily about sitting down and thinking about how to continue working on a full-scale cleaning project in Norway. There's no doubt that you have to do it when you stop one. What I'm criticising is that you stop work at the testing centre in Mongstad, as the Council of State itself has said, is a success, that you cut the appropriations for it by 100 million. kr, and that there are no reflections whatsoever about what this stop and the ‘time out’ will mean for the competence of the development of this technology in Norway. We have asked briefly about getting a time span: how long does the government need to devise a strategy on new full-scale facilities? I assume that we will continue to work on the total capture and storage technology after the same tracks that have been followed so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4025	It was the representative of Astrup who made me speak. The point here is to remove important instruments for achieving bioenergy objectives in this budget – not for the Ministry of the Environment or the Ministry of Oil and Energy – but for the Ministry of Agriculture. After these aid schemes were implemented, production has doubled, and industry says it is dependent on them to increase, because prices will otherwise be too low. There is no disagreement as to the instruments advocated by the representative Astrup, but the problem with this budget is that no new instruments are put on the table, but no active instruments are removed. Then I ask, what are you going to do to achieve the goals in this area? This area is a cheek egg, because it contributes both to renewable energy and to a large number of jobs in areas of the country that do not already have so many jobs. There's not much that does it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4030	Let me first confirm to the representative Per Rune Henriksen that we are stopping the activity at the test centre in Mongstad. The representative knows that's not right. The activity will be continued at the current level, and new users will be recruited by the authorities during the coming period. So for this with support for tile and tile firing. The representatives who are asking questions to the two state councils that are here now, the Minister for Oil and Energy and the Minister for Climate and Environment, are very aware that that responsibility is different from ours, but let me just remind you of what the representative Astrup started with. We have put on the table bold ambitions for phasing out mineral oil in stationary energy production. Different types of biofuels are important supplements to replace them. In addition, I would like to remind you that there has been a broad political consensus in the Storting that the main means of achieving the phase-in of new renewable energy is – and should be – green certificates, which are a technology-neutral system that ensures that we get the most power. There too, different types of bioenergy could play a role. In addition, Enova has instruments to increase the use of different types of bioenergy in Norway. So the description of reality is not entirely correct, and the Minister of Agriculture gets to answer questions about exactly one instrument on which it has now been changed. I would also like to remind you – in the discussion on industry – that we are strengthening the work of Enova in relation to industry, but also in reducing electricity consumption in households and industrial buildings. This will reduce power prices in the long term. At the same time, Statnett is working to ensure a tariff that ensures large power users, located in areas of the country that need to have decoupling capacity. Both of these instruments have full government support and will be important for industry in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4041	I wasn't going to take the floor, but there are so many claims at the end of the debate that you can't avoid commenting on any of them. in the case of the shot attempt. This was a shooting attempt that went far beyond the time promised, and the red-green government actually couldn't end it within the time promised, but one chose to change it and let more people take part in it. Now we're going to open up to the 108 people who have signed up. It is done within the planning and building laws, which have proved to be a success factor. It should just be lacking that one should not draw experience from the experiment that has lasted until the current date, and one continued as well. It's obvious that there's a frustration here when it comes to claims of cutting in the rainforest bet. I said something about it in a previous post and linked it to the Riksrevision's criticism. It cannot be that a completely uncritical allowance reaches even the Riksrevision, at several points, points out that the money is paid without any concrete project being used. I'm not going to go into it in detail, but it seems pointless when it's just about doing – a form of indulgence – to spend money without being able to spend it on concrete projects. So to this with 'time out' and Mongstad. There are now claims that you have blocked the permissions of the test center. It's as far from the truth as one can come. The permission of 100 million. kr was intended for a building on an empty space that was there free, and that had nothing to do with the test centre at all. To claim that the reduction influences the operation of the test centre is simply unknowing. Finally, with the holding of the Progress Party on climate issues. We have an agreement. We have a government party called Right, and we have two cooperation parties. We have an agreement. The progress party is clear on one thing, and that is that we keep all the agreements that we have concluded. This government is clear when it comes to strengthening the climate agreement, and we will keep that agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4054	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4057	In fact, when it comes to shooting, the Swedish government managed to train that case for five years. For five years the previous government was completely paralysed. It is possible that today's government actually delivers. Maybe that's what you're afraid of? There are many experimental municipalities, and if you think that the basis is not enough, then six municipalities in Nord-Troms and all the municipalities in Finnmark have had this scheme for 30 years. The system is actually well tested.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4062	The representative of Åsmund Gruver Aukrust has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4065	I finally took the floor to remind the representatives of the Progress Party that they are actually in government. Earlier today, the Christian People's Party attacked to ask what to live on in Lofoten now that it is not opened up to oil drilling there. Well, it's the Progress Party that's in government. Now they were up in the pulpit and almost argued against us spending money on rainforest betting, although they have now increased the rainforest budget in the budget agreement by nearly 300 million. kr. Now that's just 100 million. kr that separates us and the Advance Party. Nor is there a lack of projects. What is lacking, on the other hand, is countries that are willing to contribute to financing climate action in developing countries. Finally, I hear over and over again that the Progress Party refers to the cooperation agreement when they are asked what they mean; whether they believe in the man-made climate change or not. We hear that they've committed themselves to saying this, but it's clear it does something about what efforts you're willing to make, whether you really believe it or not. Therefore, the answer has been very clear from the representatives of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4072	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4086	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given after comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4093	First of all, I can say that I think there have been a lot of good climate interventions in the previous debate, and I guess that way I could well just point out the need to step up efforts just against the big problem and the big challenge facing climate change. However, I choose to use my allocated time to talk a little about the matter. First of all, there is no doubt that the climate problem is, as it has been underlined, a common problem. We must seek an international solution to the challenges. Unfortunately, it turns out that UN negotiations have not been a great success, but they have led us on to Kyoto 2, which is an agreement that is in no way perfect, but it contributes to the continuation of important institutions and ways of thinking. It contains many technicalities and is kind of a continuation, if not the best. That is why I am very pleased that, with a unanimous committee and, hopefully, a unanimous decision in the United Kingdom, we are now able to accept the amendments to the Kyoto Protocol of 11 December 1997 which have been proposed and presented. I am also very pleased that the Stortinget is on a proposal, which was originally tabled by the Workers' Party, where an overall committee is now asking the Government to come back to the Stortinget with a case about the arrangement of Norway's international climate action during the spring 2014 session. I'm very happy about that, because I think it's very important for a person to have an opportunity to discuss it in the Stortinget. I think it's very important that we can manage to gather on the views of the Norwegian political environment on such an important issue, so I'm very pleased that you've been informed about it. What I would like to mention in addition, and which is a little out of the question, is that we can read on the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' websites that the government has today discussed the Norwegian position on the EU framework for climate and energy by 2030, and they have a goal of sending their input to the European Commission in a short time. That's fine, but in that process I think there's something missing, and that's the discussion and discussion in Stortinget. In connection with the government choosing to send such an important input on behalf of the nation of Norway to the European Commission, I really expected the government to present a discussion of this relationship to the Stortinget. As far as I know, it has not happened. It seems to me to be most remarkable, not least in view of the fact that the government, in its approach to confirming its own European policy, has so clearly said that it will involve the Storting early in clarifying important EEA processes or EU matters. So there's a point that has to be left out. It may be okay if the Minister for Climate and Environment can respond a little to how one before a sender cancels this letter, possibly involving Stortinget. I am aware that it has been discussed in the European Committee today, but the Committee on Energy and the Environment, which is responsible for the technical committee, was not invited. As far as I'm aware, it was just a matter of process orientation, not content. I think that in that case is a little amazing. As I said, it has been stressed that a person wants to involve the Stortinget, and that emphasis I in fact assume that the government follows up by facilitating that the Stortinget gets the opportunity to discuss such an important input.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4109	At the end of the debate by the representative of Aasland, it is worth mentioning that the European Committee is the government's arena to discuss these matters with the Stortinget, it consults the Storting through the European Committee, so that now it is calling for something that has taken place today. In addition, this was an important topic in the EU and EEA debates that we had in this Chamber a short time ago. Personally, I used the chance to make my input into what the government's input to the Commission was, and many other representatives did the same. So it's also a matter of knowing your visit time at the arenas that the Storting has actually made available to provide views on this, and the European Commission and the debate on the EU and EEA statement are among them. So to what's really the matter today, that's the Kyoto Protocol. Let's establish that this is no revolution. Kyoto 2 includes too few countries to be of particular importance. It does not contain commitments beyond those already entered into by the countries that have joined. However, it was necessary to move forward with the work of an international climate agreement, which, hopefully, will be broad, covering many countries, and on which agreement will be reached in Paris in 2015. It was not difficult for us to agree that the government would come to the Storting and report on the international climate action during the spring 2014 session, all the time the government itself has announced that it is going to do so, so it was also natural to support that proposal. It is important that we have international mechanisms in place to reduce emissions. The focus is that many countries and regions now look to the EU and their quota trading system, which can make it easier to have a common international price mechanism in the long term. China is now setting up seven regional quota markets, the largest of which, Guangdong, will include 400 million people. We know that South Korea works right away. Mexico has established a market for allowances that is voluntary but, if it does not participate, a paying CO2 tax is required. It is a highly effective tool to get companies to participate. We know that Quebec and California already have these kinds of mechanisms in place, and a guy is now working to connect them. So that's after all some points of light. In addition, all countries shall report what they wish to contribute to this international climate change threat, at the Ban Ki-moon climate change meeting in September. In the long term, there may be something more effective than what the Kyoto Agreement does. There is no doubt, as the Right Party and the Progressive Party also stress in a note, that this Convention includes too few countries for it to have any particular effect, but it was important, as I said, to clear up this issue in order to agree on a broader international agreement. I'll end with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4125	For the Progress Party, real policy has always come ahead of symbol policy, and we have been skeptical as a party to ratify the Kyoto Protocol. There's been a lot of reasons for that. There is a great weakness in the fact that several central countries have not committed themselves under the Kyoto agreement in terms of quantifiable reductions and targets – otherwise what I think most people agree with. This is central to meeting the intentions of the UNFCCC and the Kyoto Protocol to implement the necessary emission reductions. When we choose to give our consent to the approval of amendments of 8 December 2012 to the Kyoto Protocol, it must be seen in a context. There is no doubt that the Progress Party has been skeptical about how the instruments would be practiced by the former red-green government, and SV in particular, in the form of strange demands on business and increased taxes on the population. We know how creative the socialists are in using other people's money through increased taxes and taxes. In this case, there is little doubt that the red-greens could really have bolted themselves quite wildly with the money of others. This scepticism from the Advancement Party is gone today. The Progress Party will, in cooperation with the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, ensure that the instruments used to reduce total greenhouse gas emissions should not adversely affect the business community or the population through specific Norwegian requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4134	The Kyoto Protocol was adopted at the Third Conference of the Parties to the Kyoto Convention in 1997. For the first time, a legally binding international agreement on climate change was adopted, with numerical emission obligations for those countries that were then classified as industrialised countries. Norway ratified the Kyoto Protocol in 2002 and has an emission obligation related to the first commitment period, 2008 to 2012. The implementation of the Kyoto Protocol is an important part of Norwegian climate policy. The system of opening up flexible implementation and cooperation with countries allows Norway to take on greater commitments and contribute to greater global reductions than would be possible through national implementation alone. The Christian People's Party has always considered flexible implementation to be a complement to national measures. The red-green government, which was responsible for the whole of the last commitment period, made cooperation and quota trade the main instrument. Norway’s emissions today are still close to 6 pst. above 1990 levels. At the end of the first commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol, 31 December 2012, the government had to carry out significant quota purchases in developing countries in order to meet our national obligations, in addition to the excess of 10 pst. This was because we had not managed to reduce national emissions in line with our commitments. It does not provide credibility. Norway is also in a poor position to achieve the target of reducing emissions of equivalent 30 pst. of Norway’s 1990 emissions by 2020, and in particular the target of taking about two thirds of the emission reductions nationally. There are less than eight years left until 2020, and the emissions curve shows few signs of starting to point downwards. By comparison, our neighbouring countries Denmark and Sweden have managed to reduce their national greenhouse gas emissions by 20 and 16 pst respectively. compared to 1990 levels. In Sweden, what is to be done with the considerable surplus of allowances now held by the country is discussed, after overfilling its international commitments by more than 10 pst. At the Doha United Nations Climate Change Conference in December 2012, amendments to the Kyoto Protocol establishing emission obligations for the period 2013-2020 were adopted. For Norway, the decision involves a new emission obligation, which is in line with the objective of reducing emissions by 30 pst. in 2020 compared to the 1990s. The new commitment implies that Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions over the period 2013-2020 have to be on average 16 pst. lower than Norway’s 1990 emissions. I welcome the broad consensus in the position that the government should involve the Stortinget in a discussion on the alignment of Norway’s international climate action, and that there should be a case for the Stortinget on ‘setting up Norway’s international climate action during the spring 2014 session’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4153	The most pleasant thing about this case is that it is a unanimous increase in favour of the Kyoto 2 agreement, and that this is the basis for the commitments we make towards 2020. But then the real job begins: what does it mean for Norway to sign the Kyoto 2 agreement? With the Kyoto agreement of 1997, we got a commitment that it would only be 1 pst. increase by 2012. We have a larger increase, 6-7 pst., of CO2 emissions. What enables us to keep the Kyoto agreement is that it allows for a flexible implementation in terms of the purchase of allowances. But it is important – as the representative of the Christian People's Party also pointed out – that this should be a supplement rather than a general rule. So far, there has been the general rule and the way to resolve commitments under the Kyoto Agreement. From 2013 to 2020, emissions shall average — according to the Kyoto 2 commitments — down 16 pst. towards 2020. Here, it is absolutely essential that this means that Norway is also being cut in a large way. In the climate agreement, the concrete cut obligation is approx. 5 million tonnes, i.e. 10 pst. reduction. Now, when we are going to strengthen the climate agreement, which is widely agreed, also in addition to the cooperation agreement that the government has with the Left and Christian People's Party, it must result in a goal and in measures that are proportionate to the objective, so that quota purchases can be what they were supposed to be, just a supplement. It is important to take into account that this is not a perfect agreement at all. With the Kyoto 2 agreement, at least we do not reach a reduction of 85 pst. towards 2050, which is necessary to achieve the two-degree target. However, the agreement is a necessary step in order to move forward also in the international climate negotiations. And just to move on, it's important for Norway to show that we're not just willing to use that wealth, that bag of money that we have to buy quotas internationally. We also need to show willingness to drive both technological development and concrete emissions cuts in Norway. Therefore, I am pleased that Stortinget is unanimous in this matter. A much more important proposal for a decision is the proposal ‘to ask the government to come back to the Stortingen with a case of setting up Norway’s international climate action during the spring 2014 session’. It is in this case that the Stortinget must outsource its real will to implement new climate action. It is in this matter that we must have a majority in which we specifically strengthen the climate agreement. The climate agreement, with a reduction of 5 million tonnes by 2020, requires significantly greater efforts than today. If we are to strengthen this under the Kyoto 2 agreement, it requires even more. Finally, with regard to the presentation in the European Committee today and the press release that has now been issued, where the government warns that it wishes to recommend to the EU – one looks forward to 2030 – that only one main objective, namely the reduction of CO2 emissions, should be achieved, and that this should be based primarily on measures that deal with the widest possible quota market, the Left disagrees with it. We believe that more objectives are needed. The work done within the EU by 2020 shows that there are objectives and measures other than the allowance market that have had more impact. I think it is wrong to rely on the action that really seems the worst. We need targets for both energy efficiency improvement and renewable energy. We're not just going to push forward a reduction, we're going to push forward a necessary technological development, which we need if we're going to achieve the two-degree goal. We are not just going to go with results in Europe and Norway, we are also going to go with measures in the rest of the world. Then we have to have ambitious goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4176	I am very pleased with the last Ola Elvestuen, the committee leader, said. I think it just makes it necessary for us to get up a separate debate on that point. We have to discuss how to do this in an appropriate way, but what should be Norway's contribution to the EU should therefore be anchored in what is Norway's opinion. When the government has so clearly said that it wants to really involve the Stortinget, I keep coming back to thinking that we should do the same as they do in Denmark. The Government should, in all cases where they have a position towards the EU, present a case to the Stortinget, which is dealt with in the relevant Committee. This presidency has made a very good investigation at an earlier stage, and I believe that this case shows that it is necessary that we do so in Norway as well. I thought I would take the opportunity to congratulate two. One I want to congratulate is Bård Vegar Solhjell, who was involved in negotiating Kyoto 2 and did a glittering job. The other ones I want to congratulate are the Progress Party, which – I won't say in a mysterious way – is saying that they stop looking at the Kyoto agreement as a symbol policy, and start looking at it as an instrument for implementing climate policy. Either that means that it has gradually begun to incite recognition into the Progress Party of the fact that climate change is man-made, and that it is worth doing something about it, or it is because the climate skeptics in the Progress Party have gone on a pagan defeat, there is equally good reason to congratulate the Progress Party on their vote for the Kyoto Protocol today. I think it is right to stress the point made by the Chairman of the Committee, Ola Elvestuen, that the Stortinget unanimously asks the government to come back to the Stortinget on a matter of setting up Norway's international climate action during the spring 2014 session. Why is that important? It is important because world leaders need to be brought together, and what we need is clearly a new ‘drive’ in climate policy internationally, where countries commit to what they are interested in doing. For everyone who was at the Warsaw Conference and everyone who followed it, it should once and for all be clear that the belief in and the idea that we are going to have an international climate agreement that is ambitious enough to set a CO2 price that is strong enough to implement and force the necessary conversion is stone dead. It's going to be an international climate agreement, but we know that its content is not going to be ambitious enough. It makes each one have to look at himself in the mirror and ask, what are we going to do to get to the goal? Norway is giants. We're the ones pumping up the most fossil resources per capita in the world, and on the CO2 emission side, we're far beyond what the world tolerates per capita. The previous government had as a fundamental goal for its policy that we have to assume that each individual human being has the same right to pollute the globe, and uses it as the ability to generate energy and emit CO2 in order to create economic development is. That means we're going to have to go down drastically. The question is when that recognition goes up for the Progress Party. As we heard earlier in the debate, the Progress Party has a very clear political ambition not to do something strange. The only thing that should be allowed to be strange in the view of the Progress Party is the high emissions, the high consumption of fossil resources and the high extraction of fossil resources. So it doesn't work if we're all going to be able to figure out a fair distribution of the job to get to the green shift. That is why it is very good that we are presented with a case in which the Progress Party and the Right can jointly provide the Stortinget with an opportunity to discuss how we should do our fair and reasonable share of the job, which is what the entire population of Norway – at least a large part of the population of Norway – wants to participate in. Lord Nicholas Stern said about it very clearly at the meeting the last time I spoke to him and listened to him, that there is a need for leadership to carry this out. Since the Minister for Climate and Environment had previously been in and talked about her evaluating her presentation or case – a big message – on the climate side, I would just say that when the Stortinget here decides that we want a matter of setting up, that means that it is not opening up for an oral settlement according to Section 45 of the Stortinget Rules of Procedure. That means that we expect to get a proper case that we might have to deal with in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4200	The Kyoto agreement is all about one thing: cutting emissions. So, first of all, it's quite important to assume what Norway's agreement, which we're now moving on from, was, that we were allowed to increase our emissions. Now that we're entering a new agreement period, I think it's a little daunting that up to several representatives are talking about it as if it's just rustling on, as if nothing happened. On the contrary, I believe that when Stortinget is going to enter an international climate agreement, we should stop and ask: What is the status, and what are the accounts for what we have done so far? The status and accounting of what we have done so far must also be seen in relation to the two main elements of Norwegian climate rhetoric, namely that we must be internationally leading, and that international climate agreements must be the instrument that creates the climate solution. What can you expect from a country that means it? Well, we're more keen on fulfilling our obligations than anyone else. The status is known to something else. We haven't even been able to stay within the small growth of 1 pst. to which we committed ourselves. We've grown with a 6-7 pst. And today, it's not about 50 million tons that we're going to get out, but 53 million tons. At the same time, when we have a climate settlement as the main instrument to deliver on our climate obligations, and we know what that instrument actually consists of, namely, a combination of the things we do at home, but not fulfilling, and the things we're going to do out through a climate-creamological mechanism that relates to what Norwegian emissions would have been if we had done even less than what we're doing now, and which is based on buying allowances in a market that doesn't work, we know that the starting point for fulfilling the next agreement, which makes much greater demands in practice for Norwegian emissions, is bad. It's actually pretty important that this hall recognizes, because otherwise the probability that we're able to get into the next deal is very small. There is also good reason to recall Norway’s own climate policy flagship, namely the rainforest approach, and the mechanism it uses. It uses a bone hard no cure, no pay mechanism. A single Norwegian rainforest crown is not paid if it has not been proven non-time scientific that cut has happened. So we are not making such demands on Norway's own climate action at all. On the other hand, we are content to comply with the previous agreement purely formalistically, while there is no evidence that the difficult quota purchases we run internationally have any real cut-off effect. The Green Party will vote to commit us to the new Kyoto agreement, because we want to implement a policy that actually delivers the cuts required by the agreement. The parties that have not intended to work and commit themselves to concrete, physical, large-scale emission cuts in Norwegian territory, as the Kyoto agreement actually intends to do, should be in favour of this commitment. The batches planning to comply with this agreement, too, formally – and only formally – through the purchase of allowances in other countries, in markets that do not work, should vote against the commitment to this agreement. The Green Party has proposed a number of concrete measures that will deliver the cuts this agreement requires us to do. We have heard many good speeches in the Chamber tonight, and in the previous debate, with the desire to actually carry out such cuts. We are very pleased with a concrete debate about actually implementing those measures, but it is necessary that, before we sign a new agreement, we recognise that we are very far from that kind of action now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4215	Climate change is in progress. We need to increase the global total effort if we are to achieve the goal of limiting heating to two degrees. The emission reductions currently implemented or planned are not sufficient. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, global emissions must reach their peak by 2020. We need reinforced efforts both in the short and long term. A new commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol is important for several reasons. Firstly, the Kyoto Protocol is the only legally binding agreement in the field of climate change that sets numerical emission obligations for countries. Secondly, the Kyoto Protocol has a robust system of common rules on how countries deal with their climate commitments. This is something Norway will also work for in a new climate agreement. Thirdly, the Kyoto Protocol also has a UN-approved allowance market for cost-effective implementation. This means that countries can contribute to major emission reductions globally. The possibility of quota buying and cooperation with other countries allows Norway to contribute to major global reductions. This is one of the objectives of international agreements — to help countries do more together than that country can do alone. A new commitment period will mean numerical emission obligations for several countries until 2020 and the continuation of the good systems established under the Kyoto Protocol, which are an important part of Norwegian climate policy. A new commitment period was also a prerequisite for agreeing on the mandate for negotiating a new, wider climate agreement to apply from 2020. It is therefore an important step towards broader climate cooperation under the UNFCCC. It is a crossroads that no more countries have committed themselves to the second commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. It is all the more important for confidence in the negotiations that countries take the lead and follow up the political decisions taken on enhanced action in the field of climate change. I am therefore pleased that the Committee recommends that the Storting agree to approve the amendments to the Kyoto Protocol. For the post-2020 period, Norway is working for a broad, ambitious and binding agreement in line with the two-degree objective. In Warsaw, a Roadmap was decided where all countries will make the homework to prepare for the new climate agreement, to be adopted in 2015. Norway also has an important homework to do here, which I know the committee has noticed. Therefore, 2014 will be an important year in building up until 2015. Several political meetings have been agreed in 2014 to discuss increased ambitions and to create a political pressure until 2015. A Ministerial Round Table has been agreed to discuss increased ambitions under the Kyoto Protocol. A ministerial meeting has also been agreed to discuss increased ambitions more broadly by 2020. This is part of the follow-up to the work programme on increased ambitions under the UNFCCC. It has also been agreed to a meeting of world leaders in September 2014 to which the UN Secretary-General has invited. That meeting is important for mobilising political will until 2015. So the coming year will be important for the international climate work, and I have noticed the British Government's wish that the government return to the Stortinget with a matter of setting up Norway's international climate action during the spring 2014 session. Of course, the government will follow up on that. My response in the previous debate to Heikki Holmås was more general about the climate communication – whether there should be a message or an explanation. Here I have understood that this is a matter. So to the question that was also asked about the letter that is now about the EU Green Paper. The government was in the Grand Council of Europe. The Committee on Energy and the Environment was also invited when the Minister for Oil and Energy, the Minister for Europe and myself were there on 4 November this year. The dialogue has been with the European Committee of the Biggest, which is the body of the Biggest, for dialogue with the government in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4256	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4259	It's a historic day. We are going to make a unanimous decision, including the Progress Party. I would assume that the Right should have some of the credit for that, so I can start by congratulating the Minister on the success of that field. Then we look forward to the matter to come. But my question to the Minister concerns the role she sees in international negotiations. And what role should the government play? The red-green government often prioritised travelling with both the Prime Minister and several other ministers, and former Environment Minister Bård Vegar Solhjell played a key role in the final minutes of Doha. But in Warsaw the minister went home and was at the NRK Dagsrevyen during the final negotiations. The world's Environment Ministers were in a cluster to negotiate, while the Norwegian Minister for the Environment said that only technical details remained. The technical details were e.g. from the use of the word ‘commitments’ to ‘contributions’. So my question to the minister is whether she views this as a purely technical detail. And what role does she have in future negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4268	I imagine that Norway will continue to play an active role in this, and I will also be personally involved in playing that role. The reason I went home from Warsaw at the time I did was that no more ministerial dialogues had been agreed, and our negotiator was in place and participated in the last few rounds. In the case of Lima in 2014 and 2015, I promise to be at the end.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4273	As I said, I am also pleased that we are now reaching an agreement on Kyoto 2. My question really depends on how far the minister has come to think about what this is meant by obligations. Because according to Kyoto 2, we're going down by 16 pst. That is, we can have an average emissions in Norway of 43 million tonnes – plus some decimals. According to the climate agreement, we're going to go from 52 million tonnes to 47 million tonnes. It's towards 2020. I wonder if the Minister now has any idea how far she thinks we should go down – and go down – in order to strengthen the climate agreement and also strengthen the policy in line with Kyoto 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4282	After all, the Stortinget has just adopted ambitious targets for 2014 for our own budget. We know that we have a commitment internationally, and we have to go down to the national. I think we have to get back to it in the matter of Stortingen to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4287	Congratulations on Kyoto 2! I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to ask questions about an incredibly important matter in the future, namely the EU's further work on the climate and energy package and the Norwegian input into it. There was a meeting in the European selection before, where I and others attended and had the opportunity to come up with our views. I expressed a lot of views. Now there has been a new meeting in the European Selection Board, where we have been presented with what has been decided. What is on the agenda for that meeting is ‘Preparing the status of the government’s preparation of Norwegian contributions to the EU’s work on developing a framework for climate and energy policy towards 2030’. One of the representatives asked the following questions: How does the government know that they have multiple numbers for what they presented? In any case, I and SV are strongly critical. So let me ask you this too: how does the Minister for Climate and Environment know that the government is anchored in the Stortinget, a number in Stortinget, for what those who presented?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4294	The government’s consultation with the European Parliament on this kind of policy is in the European Committee of Governors. We had a statement on November 4th, and then there's been a statement today, so I think it's been taken care of by those statements there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4299	I just want to follow up that question from Bård Vegar Solhjell. I would like to ask the Minister for Climate and Environment the following simple questions: Will the Minister for Climate and Environment see it as an advantage if the Stortinget is behind in promoting matters towards the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4306	I noticed that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås said a little earlier today that perhaps one should work in a different way with this. But what we have today is the government's consultation with the European Committee of Great Britain – that's what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4313	Let me start at a slightly different end. I was present at the same meeting, and it is so challenging when the Committee on Energy and the Environment cannot be present when such an important matter is being discussed. That is why I want to challenge the Minister for the Environment: what are the benefits of choosing only one target versus promising that one should have objectives in the areas of renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4320	I think it's a great advantage now to see energy and climate in a close context, as the government note also shows. Having one common goal that is so clear on achieving the two-degree goal, we believe is important. It's clear that to achieve that, you have to work well with energy efficiency. But getting together on one goal and getting all possible tools to achieve the two-degree goal means we think it's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4328	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4333	I found that both the Minister for Climate and Environment and others have argued quite well for why the Kyoto 2 agreement is correct. But there's one more argument that I want to add. It's that Kyoto 2 is part of the ‘deal’ world in Durban, about how we're going to be able to bring this issue forward – where rich countries put on what might look a little unnatural, from the outside, that one should make an agreement for such a small, limited part of the world where only a lot of rich countries participate, and where many others do not escape. But then many others, like China, India, Brazil, etc., took on that process towards 2015, which is the other side of that ‘deal’. Now we've filled that one part of it. Now it's the end of 2015 that decides. And of course, let me be absolutely clear that Kyoto 2 is not in the vicinity of what is needed to solve the climate problem. There is only a small piece in a larger image until 2015. Then we're at the process that's going to happen now. It is very good that there is a matter here in the Chamber about Norway's international obligations now in ours. It'll be a very important thing. However, Norway and the EU have very close cooperation, and the EU is one of the major, heavy driving forces for such an agreement. Thus, the EU's climate and energy policies and their process are now a decisive part of our process, which will help to determine what it is possible to achieve in a new agreement in 2015. Norwegian Recording Yours matters. The government decides for itself the extent to which it will involve the Storting. But Stortinget can also ask to be involved and get matters for treatment. On behalf of the SV, I ask, as I did in the European Selection Committee before today, that the Stortinget actually be allowed to deal with the very important issue of what climate and energy policy we should recommend to the EU. I'm doing it because on several important points I'm critical of what was presented, but I'm also doing it because it's one of the heaviest political processes we're in now, and not least because one of the most positive things that the new government has come into now, is the clear initiative of European Minister Helgesen to be in the past, to use the Storting as an active venue for debate and recording. So what was presented to us today was that it should be a pure process round. The Energy and Environment Committee was not present. We got it presented so that one would soon send recordings. So it turns out that the press release is out about before we're done with the meeting. I am asking the Minister for Climate and Environment to involve the Storting, and that it is now taken as a matter, that there will be a round in the Storting that can also clear up: Is there support for it, and what is Norway's input?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4352	I think the debate has been fine, and it is a great deal of happiness that can see that there is unanimity on Kyoto 2 and that we are getting discussions on climate back in the Stortinget. Then I am also pleased that the Fredriksen of the Progress Party says that they are now more concerned with realising themselves than with symbols. That's very good. This was not the case a year ago, when the climate policy spokesperson at the time, Per-Willy Amundsen, said that CO2 has replaced Karl Marx. This may well be a good sign that the symbolism policy was there at that time. The fact that they are now realistic is good. So for the discussion -- we might have slept a little in an hour, as Nikolai Astrup makes it, or we didn't use the opportunity. We're going to have to go a little bit behind that in retrospect. Firstly, there is no doubt that the issue to which it is now referred about whether the recordings made on energy and climate to the European Commission for Norway are a very important matter. At the European Committee meeting held on 4 November 2013, Helgesen said: ‘We also need to address the issues that the Green Paper and new documents will raise from the Norwegian side. We need to take the debate, broadly, with stakeholders and environments in Norway – including in the political environment. And we have to make our balances in the tension between energy policy and environmental policy interests, considerations and objectives. Such tensions exist in Norway and such tensions exist in the EU. The government believes that we are better equipped to make these decisions and to take part in the ongoing EU process if we have a broad and open debate, both today and in the future, as the issues become clearer, and the outlines of a future European climate and energy policy become clearer. Therefore, we do not come here now with government positions, but with some starting points for dialogue with the European Committee.’ Furthermore, Minister of Oil and Energy Tord Lien said at the time that he was very aware of the Norwegian interests in this context, and of course would keep Stortinget informed and included. That was the result of the European Committee's presentation, from the members of the government, on 4 November. The fact that the European Committee today is presented with a summary of the government's conclusions in that field, without the presence of the Scientific Committee in Stortinget, seems to me to be a little remarkable. It may be the invitation to the Energy and Environment Committee that has not arrived. But I think it's wise that the whole Storting is also involved and included in this discussion in the future, and not least before a sender of the farm's final recording. The Workers' Party may agree with what the government will send off the farms, but I think it will be a safeguard for the government to know that the Workers' Party might agree with the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4375	Let me first say that I think it is a little special that we use this issue of Kyoto to discuss something quite different, a completely different process, which has been going on in the European Committee, among other things. today. I believe that when you first discuss Kyoto 2, you should stick to Kyoto 2, but now that the Workers' Party has opened this dance, it is also necessary to comment on it. What happened at the European Committee meeting on 4 November was that three governments came from the government to consult the European Green Paper. It was necessary because the red-green government had not managed to send any input – to collect any input – within that time. Then the government has worked, and again involved Stortinget through the meeting of the European Committee today. It is also a meeting of the National European Forum tomorrow, where the parties from the Stortinget are invited, and you will be heard. Then, in addition to this EU/EEA debate in Stortingen a few weeks ago, all representatives had the opportunity to make recordings here in the open room. I think it is remarkable when representatives from the SV demand that a case be brought before the Storting on European policy, all the time they have spent in the eight years they have spent, never made a case on this, except for the big message on European policy as a whole, which was otherwise a thin matter, which followed the 911 pages of the European investigation. The government has therefore used the arenas available for contact with the Storting, consultations with the Stortinget, on European issues in this matter, and has consulted the Stortinget twice, in addition to the meeting of the National European Forum tomorrow. I notice that you obviously change your view of where you are sitting, because there was no demand from anyone from SV that matters should be presented to Stortinget in plenary – as a big message, I suppose they mean – about important European issues. On the contrary, the European Committee was not consulted when Stortinget sent a letter to the EU. That practice has now been changed by the fact that the Council of State is more often coming to the Grand Duchy and more often reporting on European policy, and I believe that the Grand Duchy should be satisfied with that. And of course, you can always get even better, and the Big Thing can be involved even more. But at least it's a clear improvement from how it's been in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4388	What is special here is that while the Committee on Energy and the Environment is discussing the budget in the Chamber, a meeting of the European Committee is holding a very important matter for the same committee. And it's under a so-called "variety thing," no. 4 on the file card, and I read again: ‘Preparation of the state of the government’s preparation of Norwegian contributions to the EU’s efforts to develop a framework for climate and energy policy’. So the status was that it was done, and so it was an orientation that this was the way it was. It is the full right of the government to operate in this way, but it is contrary to the signals they themselves have given about how they intend to operate in European policy. Then I was here both in the debate during the distribution and at the previous meeting of the European Committee – I was in both places talking about energy and climate policy and expressing my views. It was easy to understand from the two debates that both myself and the other party wanted a completely different view of essential parts of what was presented, which have also appeared during the debate here today. The reason why there is a debate under Kyoto 2 is that one has chosen not to file a case for the Storting, and also that there is another meeting on this, on which the Committee on Energy and the Environment should have been open – the Municipal Committee was there, the Justice Committee was there. So I ask again – I don't demand it, but I ask – that the Minister for Climate and Environment at least take the floor and answer whether she would like to come up with a case or otherwise take a new round in the Storting on that matter. It is also because there is an important content debate, and there is a tough fight about this in the EU now. Should there be one overarching objective, or should there still be targets in the area of renewables and energy efficiency improvement, which have driven change in individual EU countries? There is a lot to say about subsidies, but at least they have been involved in driving the renewable revolution in some EU countries. They're under heavy pressure now. Are they going to continue, or are they going to go away, as many struggles for? And what role should the gas play in this? It is among the debates that are important. So in a more atoning tone at last: I forgot to thank for the nice words from Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås here from the pulpit when it was Kyoto 2 and my participation there. But I want to take the opportunity to send the thank you to the two who are sitting here, and to all the others who work in the Norwegian negotiating team. Now they're working for the new climate and environmental protection minister, before they work for me, and in a few years they're working for another climate and environmental protection minister. Under all these regimes, they do a fantastic job. They're working on something of the most complex in the world, easy to get to an international agreement. They've had a lot of fun in the media after the Warsaw meeting, but they're among Norway's finest officials and women.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4402	I would also draw upon myself to follow up just a little bit of the content debate that Nikolai Astrup brought up, which is an important debate, and as I think it is important to get wide and specifically discussed, because the content of this is absolutely crucial for this policy and for the ability to put a proper line forward. I must admit that if one looks at the energy policy in the EU and at what things have driven change, what has driven the green shift within parts of the EU, but which has also affected the world in a proper way, then there is no doubt that the Germans' targeted investment in renewable energy, the Germans' targeted investment in solar cells and solar panels, have helped to drive forward the transformation that is now making solar cells competitive with fossil energy sources in a very large proportion of the world's markets. This has not been driven by CO2 prices. Twice during the period of operation of the EU ETS, the CO2 market has collapsed. First of all, it was due to recessions in the EU, which have led to much, much lower demand than it would otherwise have been – not because there has been a violent change and upturn, but simply because of the fact that there have been downturns. In other words, it has not helped to drive forward the green shift as we know it is absolutely necessary that we get to. Why? Well, if you're an investor and you're wondering if you're going to invest in a technology that allows you to save a lot of CO2 emissions in the future, it's crucial for you to look at what the cost path will be like in the future – how much money you're actually saving. If the price fluctuates as much as it has done in the EU quota market today, and it is down to around EUR 3.50, in other words not too much money, then that is not enough. It's a disincentive for investors. An allowance price, an obligation to invest in renewable energy, a clear price that is fixed – all there are different incentives that have worked better than one general incentive – or one general system, quota price. That is why I fully agree with Ola Elvestuen that the recording we should have given to the EU was to go for more goals – not one goal, but several goals. That is why I believe it is important that we get a anchoring process in the Storting for this, which is the crucial question of how we prepare for the matter that the Minister for Climate and Environment is going to present in the spring, where our objectives and our input to the climate summit in September are to be. That's why it's important to get a proper discussion and anchoring of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4422	The representative Nikolai Astrup has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4425	If the representative Eidsvoll Holmås had taken the trouble to attend the European Committee meeting on 4 November, he could convey these views to the Councils. I understand that the representatives Solhjell and Eidsvoll Holmås are dissatisfied that the government has a different view than them, but that does not mean that Stortinget has not been consulted. It just means that the government has a different view. As far as the use of instruments is concerned, let me just say this: yes, the evolution of solar photovoltaic prices has been important for the world, but the emissions in Germany are rising, and that is despite all the emissions we have to measure, and then there are many different instruments to bring down emissions. It could be renewable energy, and it could be energy efficiency improvement. But the most important thing to measure is whether we're actually able to reduce emissions. That is what the government has now agreed on; that it should have a target of emission reductions, and then, of course, different instruments should be used to achieve that goal. But it also has to be up to national states to decide how to achieve targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4434	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4437	As Bård Vegar Solhjell said, there was absolute input that was given, where it was not necessarily said that it was sufficient to consult the Stortinget and then just conclude in another way, because it was absolutely a debate. And perhaps unlike Nikolai Astrup, I feel very well represented by Bård Vegar Solhjell, but I understand that Nikolai Astrup does not feel well represented by Bård Vegar Solhjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4442	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox Now we're going to deal with the number of cases. 7–12, which is the second time the law is handled. The President proposes that these matters be dealt with together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4514	No one has asked for the word to any of these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4520	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4528	A total of two proposals have been put forward for this matter. It's proposal No 1, from Anders Tyvand on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Martin Henriksen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposal No. 2 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess how the school day can be organised to ensure that students have at least one hour of physical activity each day, within today’s hours.’ The Greens have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e4556	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for 11 months of study support during the current ageing period.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e7951	The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e9190	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1 by Terje Aasland on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Greens' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left 2, by Terje Aasland, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 3, by Rasmus Hansson on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Greens There is a vote on proposal No. 3, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to develop a plan for the creation of new national parks both on land and at sea, in order to meet the commitment of an ecologically representative network of protected areas. The plan shall be an important instrument to stop the loss of species and nature by 2020.» The Labour Party, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e9220	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size consents to the establishment of a CO2 management programme aimed at achieving full scale CO2 management projects in Norway. The size assumes that the State shall ensure economic and other framework conditions which may trigger at least one such project.’;» The Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Greens will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e9243	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Green Party, the Centre Party and SV. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure predictability for Norwegian industry by maintaining a fully-fledged CO2 compensation scheme in the contractual period until 2020.’; The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e13241	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of A I to XVIII and B. The Labour Party, the Senterpartiet, SV and the Environmental Party The Greens have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e13256	So it goes over A XIX. Here the President will draw attention to a correction made by the representative of Elvesuen in his intervention during the debate. The appropriate proposal for a decision shall be replaced by the following: ‘XIX Realisation of full scale CO2 management installations by 2020 The size agrees with the ambition to realise at least one full-scale CO2 capture and storage facility by 2020.» The Greens have announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards showed that 1 vote was cast against and 95 votes in favour of the Committee's appointment to A XIX, with the correction made. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 20.42.00]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e13283	President! My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e13288	So let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e13330	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the SV have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e13370	Case No. 7–12 is the second time legal proceedings are under way. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-12.ana.ud421e13384	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
