ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e50	Dear co-representatives! Former Stable Representative Johannes Østveit died on July 9, this year, 86 years old. He represented Telemark Christian People's Party on the Stortinget from 1965 to 1973. Johannes Østtveit was born in Sauherad in 1927. With training as a veterinarian from Norway's veterinary high school, he worked for many years as an animal doctor in both private and public practice. He was politically active in the municipality of Bø, where he was elected to the local government in 1959. Ostveit was a member of the leadership of the municipality, and he was a municipal politician and a big-time politician in parallel during both of the major periods. In his first growing-up period, Johannes Østveit was a member of the Management Committee in Stortinget. In the second period, he was vice-chairman of the Social Committee. In the 1973 election, Johannes Østveit withdrew from Stortinget and entered a position as head of investigation at the National Office of the Christian People's Party. He was here, among others. responsible for the alternative family message presented by the Christian People's Party in 1974, and he was editor of several editions of the party's political manuals. He also worked as a journalist in the future of the People's Party. East Germany had more public offices. Among other things, he was a member of the sample who evaluated the administration of smaller municipalities, and of Norwegian film councils. Johannes Østveit was engaged in Christian work, both in the congregation council, as leader of the KFUM and as a member of the circuit board of Telemark for the Norwegian Christian Youth Federation. The work on human rights and freedom of faith was important to him. He had a special focus on the Christians of Communist Eastern Europe through the work of the organization Mission behind the Iron Curtain. There he worked both as a director and as a mission secretary. In the book "Church Clocks at Night – Friendship Through the Iron Carpet", published by Østveit in 1998, this was given its memorial. We will remember Johannes Østveit as a loyal and committed Christian People's Party politician and co-worker. He was an impassable and loving man, who was busy getting things done. We remember John the East for his activities in the Greatness and bring peace to his good memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e73	A number of permit applications are available: from the representatives of Ingunn Foss, Svein Roald Hansen, Knut Storberget, Kenneth Svendsen and Christian Tybring-Gjedde on leave from 2 December to 6 December to take part in the WTO 9th Ministerial Conference of Bali of the Group of the Progressive Alliance on Permitation of the Representative Jan Arild Ellingsen from 2 December to 4 December to attend the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Washington from the representative Arild Grande on parental leave from 2 December to 4 December These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Nordland County, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Kenneth Svendsen, due to illness. From the third alternate of the Nordland County, Tom Cato Karlsen, first alternate of Oslo, Peter N. Myhre, and the first alternate of the Nord-Trøndelag County, Jorid Holstad Nordmelan, respectively, apply for a waiver to meet in the Stortinget under the representatives Jan Arild Ellingsen, Christian Tybring-Gjeddes and Arild Grandes, respectively, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period as follows: For the West Agder province: Benjamin Groenvold 3.–6. ==References====External links== December For Nordland County: Greta Johanne Solfall 3–6. ==References====External links== December For Oslo: Aina Stenersen 3–4. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website ==References====External links== December
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e170	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Lise Christoffersen. – Other proposals are not available, and Lise Christoffersen is considered unanimously elected president of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e186	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e195	I would like to thank the Council of State for a thorough review of some of the key challenges facing us in the EEA Agreement – challenges created by the changes that have taken place in the EU institutions, the changes in policy making and the limitations of our own constitution. It is good that the government will follow up the policies of previous governments to be early, to safeguard our interests and influence while the EU system develops its policies and legislation. It is good that this government, too, will focus on contact and dialogue with the Storting, but in the future this must be done in a completely different way than asking for extraordinary meetings of the European Committee at too short a notice. The Government's ambition is to pursue an active European policy, and the Council of State gives examples in the presentation of areas where it is important to have an impact on solutions tailored to Norwegian needs, such as energy and telecoms. That's an important ambition. But then it will be a bad start to travel to Brussels to tell you that the government will reverse the customs changes on cheese, meat and hortnesia, because the changes 'have had a negative effect on our cooperation climate with the EU', as it says in the presentation. What did Norway get for this unilateral concession? That should be explained by the Council of State here today. Consider whether the previous government should be equally shadowed in the case of EU sanctions against Norwegian salmon – measures taken by the EU to protect salmon farmers in Scotland. There were clear voices in Europe that did not like Norway’s taking action. But does this government think that we should not take the EU to the WTO for fear of the EU's co-operation climate? I believe that the signals of the Council of State are an unwise negotiating strategy. The changes in customs do not violate any WTO rules and no EEA legislation. For example, the signals from Prime Minister Solberg's meeting with Merkel in Berlin indicate that: not that the fall for customs criticism helps us in the fight for our deposit guarantee scheme. The Prime Minister’s statements to the media that Norway is unlikely to be able to take advantage of the requirement for exemption contrast with what the Council of State said in its statement the following day. It would be useful if he clarified for Storting the facts in the matter. During the previous government, the Stortinget discussed for the first time for a long time the basis of Norwegian foreign policy. The then government was broadly in favour of an interest-oriented foreign policy. I do not hope this government's belief in the importance of softening Brussels in the customs matter is a signal that one will go away from the policy of interest. Because we must not be so naive that we do not assume that there are interests that govern foreign policy. We get friends and allies when we share interests, not because we bend off for unspeakable and unfounded criticism. The fact that the conversion is also announced in the Easter Customs case without having secured sufficient back coverage in this room makes the debut in the EEA Council even more risky. I think the Council of State should be more concerned about criticism from this Chamber, and even more about Norwegian interests related to agriculture and the food industry, than about the criticism by some conservative EU parliamentarians around the customs matter, which the government uses as the main reason for the reversal. A recurring and real challenge in our relationship with EU cooperation in recent years has been our ability to adopt new legislation sufficiently quickly. It is important to ensure a common regulatory framework throughout the internal market. Something's due to bureaucratic summer meal. It has to be solved at home. This is because of our EFTA partner, Iceland. However, a not insignificant share of the directives now pending is also due to the unresolved problems surrounding our participation in the EU agencies – the new financial agencies, telecoms and the Acer Energy Agency. Here I would like to ask the Council of State to say something more about the work to find a solution, and what pressure it was put on the EU in the EEA Council recently to get the matter out of the water. Here, there is not political disagreement that is the problem, but real constitutional challenges for both us and Iceland – challenges that the EU must also contribute to finding a solution, in line with both our constitution and the two-pillar system of the EEA Agreement. A solution here would also mean opening up to implement a fairly large proportion of the directives that are still pending. Here, the responsibility lies just as much on the EU as on us. I assume that the Council of States made it clear in the EEA Council. The Government accepts the Commission’s proposal for a solution regarding the monitoring of the Paediatric Regulation and assigns responsibility to ESA. This allows the Regulation to be incorporated into the EEA Agreement. We have no objections to this solution, but it extends ESA's responsibilities beyond competition policy. The question is whether the government also sees this as a solution to our participation in agencies that have been given the competence to intervene against legal entities in the Member States, such as financial agencies, Acer, etc. In this case, it implies a rather extensive extension of the tasks of ESA and the corresponding need to build skills and staffing in new areas. Another possible model is to make the EU accept that the various national monitoring bodies in such areas, such as the Financial Supervisory Authority, are responsible for ensuring that Norwegian banks and financial institutions comply with the common legislation and that the role of ESA is to ensure that the national bodies really do their job. There will be a model more in line with ESA’s tasks in the field of competition. I assume that in that case the government will discuss this in more detail with the Stortinget. The EEA Agreement has become the central crossing point for foreign and domestic policy. It demands that all governments and we here in the United Kingdom keep a closer eye on what is happening in policy and regulatory design in EU cooperation. An important field to which the Council of State points in the presentation is climate and energy policy. Here the previous government played views. The EFTA Parliamentary Committee has also recently addressed the Commission on key issues to be considered. Here it is necessary to follow-up as EU policies develop into concrete instruments. In this context, it is important to bear in mind, as the Council of State also emphasised in its statement, that Norway will not be obliged to comply with EU policy objectives. Norwegian climate policy should be developed in this room, no matter how great we might think that EU policy is. But, as the Council of State also says, subsequent legislation can be of great importance to us. Therefore, it is necessary that we also have a conscious relationship with which instruments will be EEA-relevant and which fall outside the agreement. For this purpose, instruments that are less appropriate in Norway and, in particular, Iceland, with a much higher share of renewable energy than other European countries could be involved. It is also beyond our responsibility to allocate the tasks of achieving the EU's objectives for its climate policy. Finding these interfaces has also become more demanding in the light of the dynamic development of the EU's work form with more horizontal policy design and common objectives. But it makes it even more important that we have a lot of attention on this, and I think that the Council of State stated in its statement that the government would have. It will probably take some rounds with the EU to agree on where interfaces are going. Then it is important to put the fear of irritating in the drawer. Governments of the EEA Council have notified that this government is prepared to include the third postal directive in the EEA Agreement. It's not surprising. The government announced in its platform that it wanted free competition in the field. When the government wants to do so, it is just as good that it does so by implementing the EU directive, because at least we have secured postal transport for at least five days a week, as the directive requires. But I believe that the Council of State should have cost itself to inform the European Committee if the information contained in the ABC news of November 21 on the existence of an assessment of its consequences in other countries, from the so-called early warning group, is correct. In its statement, the Council of State states that research and innovation are among the main priorities of the government and that it therefore follows up the objectives of the previous government to participate in the EU Horizon 2020. Of course, we'll support that, and it should have figured out if the government was thinking about something else. But it has done so with regard to the COSME programme for small businesses. It is possible that the Council of State found this in such a strong contrast to the claim that research is a major priority, that for that reason he did not find reason to mention it in his presentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e233	We in the Right are pleased that the new government has placed the list high in its European policy. On the basis of the Declaration of the Right-wing Party Government, it is recognised that the countries of Europe are our closest neighbours, friends and trading partners. If we are to dare to have visions on behalf of the nation, we must also have visions for our trade and coexistence with our neighbours. Before going to the EEA permanent half-yearly meeting in the EEA Council, the State Council Helgesen asked for a meeting with the European Commission to explain the most politically sensitive issues he wanted to address with the EU, including the cheese toll and the postal directive. There was no criticism of the initiative in the meeting – it would be lacking at that time – although of course there was a substantive disagreement about the policy. In the time of the Stoltenberg government, such high-level cases have largely not been consulted before meetings, but they have rather been practised as follow-up minutes. So the Council of States should be praised by the European Committee to involve the Stortinget in real political advice on European affairs, although, of course, the deadline was short this time. I register that Professor Fredrik Sejersted at the University of Oslo in a chronicle in the Evening Post defends the Council of State by, among others. to express: 'All new governments after 1994 announced a more active European policy at the time of accession. The Solberg Government is one of the few who have actually taken concrete action immediately, inter alia by appointing their own European Minister and by clearly flagging their European political positions.’ It's good that relevant environments out there appreciate the government's new line. We in the Right and Advance Party have put high ambitions for our government. In the field of European policy, this relates to the impact on issues of national interest. We have the ability to influence and participate early in the EU processes through the opportunities offered by the EEA Agreement. 80 pst. of our exports go to EU countries. About 70 pst. of our imports of goods come from EU countries. This makes Europe our second most important trading partner. Too often in Norway, we have marginalised European policies to deal only with foreign policy. The European Court of Justice concluded that European policy is a cross-cutting issue of domestic policy. There is a large majority in this Chamber who agree on much in Norwegian European policy. The agreements with the EU have safeguarded Norwegian interests and Norwegian values. Access to the internal market has given Norwegian companies access to the market and the labour force we had not managed without. The Norwegian social model has continued and developed a lot over the last 20 years due to simplification and safe framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises and workers. Government Parties and Cooperation Parties agree that more involvement in the past should be top priority. We need a government that is informed and present and at the same time informs and is present here in Stortinget. On our side here in Stortinget, an excellent job has been done in recent years to organise for us representatives, both through good background notes, the creation of a separate Brussels office and now the last of the annual study visits to the EU institutions. Now it's the government's turn to deliver, and we're glad that the new government is signaling an increase in the frequency of contact with the Stortinget. Centrally, of course, is the appointment of a separate Minister for the Coordination of Norway’s European Policy. But it won't stop. All ministers must be a little European Minister, follow their case and keep up to date on a professional basis. The wing clipping that Jonas Gahr Støre addresses today in the Newspaper is therefore most unjustified. The right-wing Party government has intervened in European policy and raised it to a level with a special focus, where it belongs. The position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence during the examination of the March EEA Communication reads as follows: ‘The Committee also believes that the government should look at the possibility of structuring the coordination of EU matters in order to ensure better coordination between departments in important European matters.’ Well, now Stortinget has got it. This government aims to ensure that Norwegian competitive enterprises are competitive and, through coordination of Norwegian interests, better exploit potential inputs into the EU and the ability to influence early.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e267	Next year we will celebrate two important anniversary events in Norway. Most importantly, there is no doubt about the 200th anniversary of the Constitution. We're all happy to celebrate. Without comparison, we also show that 20 years have passed since Norway joined the EEA. Notice, I used the word marker, but I think we can use the word celebration here too. The EEA is the most central part of our agreements with the EU. Norway's relationship with the EU is not a relationship based on love, we can probably agree on that. Compromises are rarely based on love. The fact that it's not a full marriage doesn't mean that it's a bad relationship, but that in any case you can't do what you want. You have to have a certain allegiance to what's at the bottom of the relationship. The Norwegian people have twice said no to Norwegian EU membership. The EEA was – and is still – what would bind Norway with the EU. One of the key characteristics of the EEA Agreement is that it is a dynamic agreement. This applies both in width and depth in several ways. Sometimes in the debate on the EEA here in Norway you can get the impression that someone thinks that the agreement that was made 20 years ago should be exactly the same as the one that is today. This is not the case when an appointment is dynamic. At the beginning 20 years ago, seven countries joined the EEA. Today, in fact, Norway is the Grand Act in the EEA, and it is not bad to be able to refer to us as the Great Power from time to time. We're there with Iceland, and we're there with Liechtenstein. Sweden, Finland and Austria continued to become known as full members of the Union. Norway is, through the EEA, part of the internal market. The EU is Norway’s main trading partner, and the EU countries constitute Norway’s main export area. Access to the internal market means a great deal to business in Norway. The internal market is our home market. This means that Norway, which is a country with 5 million inhabitants, has access to an EEA market with 500 million more inhabitants. That's not a small number. That this is essentially a good thing, says almost itself. While the EEA has evolved since its inception 20 years ago, the EU has evolved considerably. The EU/EEA no longer links us to 12 Member States, but 28, with Croatia joining this summer as the most recent. And regardless of what you think about Norwegian membership of the European Union – I can tell you what I mean here, since we're going to have openness in this room, that I'm what you call a non-practicing EU trailer – I don't think I take my mouth too full when I say that the European Union has come to be. Montenegro and Albania are standing outside the door now waiting to be let in, while several other countries are approaching. As of today's date is 70 pst. by the people of Europe joined the European Union. It is true, as has been said, that Norwegian domestic policies are starting up more and more in the EU. There's not necessarily anything negative. With this government we get an active European policy. That's good. We have experienced getting to the back on some occasions. Trying to influence afterwards has quite little to do. It is to influence in advance that can produce results. It also means that we should have a more active relationship with the issues discussed in the EU and in advance of the decisions affecting Norway. The starting point is that we should be for what we are for and against what we are against. The party to the progress was – and is still – opposed to the introduction of the Data Storage Directive, but a majority of them did so, and this must be respected. Recently, there has been a bit of noise around both the postal directive and the ostetoll – or the cheese and steak toll, I guess. Some have tried to produce it in such a way that Norway must stand together in the light of national interests, especially on cheese. Some try to narrow down and monopolise what is ‘national interests’. There can be no surprise that a Right Party government, which is a strong supporter of competition and the free market, will join in what is just promoting this. Just to clear up a little here: Just like the Norwegian model, it is not the same as the red-green policy in force at any time, nor are Norwegian interests synonymous with red-green programming points. No matter what the question is, protectionism is always the wrong answer. When the previous government turned up the customs of cheese and meat, it acted protectively. I fully understand the irritation this created in the EU, and it is also contrary to the intentions of the EEA Agreement. This is not about the European Union's kneel-drenching, it's about politics. So I share this government's view that it is in Norway's interest to work against protectionism and high customs walls. It is also relevant to mention Norway’s export interest in fish. I would also like to mention – as far as I was concerned – this with Norwegian business and access to the internal market. It is therefore extremely important for Norwegian industry, Norwegian industry, to have a level playing field with the rest of Europe. That is why it is also a problem when it comes to postponing the implementation of legal acts. I am pleased that this government is taking this into account. In the case of Schengen, another of the agreements to which we are linked, which is a good agreement – and which is also a natural follow-up to the entry of Sweden and Finland into the Nordic passport union – the external borders become more important when internal borders are removed. Here, it is also important for Norway to provide support, especially to Spain and Greece, in order to manage this in a good way. I don't think anyone in this room has remained untouched by the events of e.g. Lampedusa. I think you're pretty tough if you don't get affected by it. There is also something that needs to be handled. I look forward to increased openness to the population about the processes and increased involvement and involvement of the Storting. A little about economic development in Europe. There are considerable differences between countries. In Greece it's up to 30 pst. unemployment. It's sad to say, but it's actually not strange that it gives ground to extremism – as we've seen with the Golden Dawn. We see the same thing in Hungary with Jobbik. These are challenges that we have to deal with. We must fight back against the emergence of extremism in Europe, and we must also be united in this. The EU is neither the animal of revelation nor the garden of Eden. So it is not today for a new Norwegian EU debate. But it's a day to talk about the practical relationship we have with the EU – because that's actually what we have, it's not a love relationship, it's a pragmatic relationship – and how we can handle it better. Active European policy is also about priorities, and it is about choosing their fights. Not least, it's about creating commitment and exploiting to the full what the deal gives us. There are also challenges within the EU. There is a need to have warning lamps if more and more directives and more legislation lead to increased bureaucracy and less transparency. This is not least a debate that takes place within the EU and within the only elected EU body, the European Parliament. This is a debate I think we should follow closely. Another challenge is the export of welfare goods. That's what this government will look at – it's in the platform. I will end by giving a travel greeting to those who are going to Bali. I was talking a little bit about protectionism here instead. It's something that takes me very seriously. I think it's negative to take protectionist measures, and I'll fight it. I would like to congratulate those who are going to Bali. Now make sure to contribute to the end of 12 years of desert migration. Make us proud and stand up for a freer world trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e314	I would like to thank Mr Vidar Helgesen for his good report on important EU and EEA issues. The Council of State starts with four observations after its first official meeting with the EU. The first was that cooperation between Norway and the EU has been valued. The second is that the EEA Agreement is important for both parties. The third is that the agreement has our robustness. And the fourth is that there is a willingness on both sides to develop cooperation further. I thought it was a good and pointed summary, and it says a lot about the EEA Agreement, how strong and robust he has been. It is not without reason that since 1994, all governments have been aware of the fact that the EEA Agreement is the cornerstone of cooperation with the EU and that this agreement has had a major impact on the Norwegian economy, business and foreign trade. For my part, I have analysed the new Council of State's first distribution, and I have made four observations when I compare them with previous distributions. First of all, it was at least as well formulated. Second, it was at least as clear. Thirdly, it was considerably shorter. It's not necessarily that the longer, the better. Fourthly, when it comes to political content, I have a little bit more to say. What I liked best was that the Council of States showed a strong willingness to use even better the space for action provided by the EEA Agreement for Norwegian participation and influence, not least at an early stage in the work on new internal market legislation. I liked the forward and ambitious hold, because Norway has a lot to contribute. We must be out early for the position to be locked. We must not just respond to proposals; we must also be able to produce initiatives and ideas from the Norwegian side. Stats are placed at the top of the list. I'm glad. It makes the fall height bigger for the state council, but the influence possibilities are even greater for Norway. The latter is most important because the comprehensive EEA Agreement contains at least as much domestic policy as foreign policy. With the ongoing development of common legislation that presupposes modern Europe, it is necessary to use resources to participate in an ongoing update on the modernisation of the legislation. So for some single things. The Christian People's Party is committed to ensuring good postal services, good working conditions for those added and a good and equivalent postal service. I'm glad that Helgesen is so clear on just that: ‘We shall continue to provide a good and equivalent postal service throughout the country, including unit postage on individual consignments.’ The attitude of the Christian People's Party is that we get an impact on our demands, we can join the directive. So to the question of ostetoll. Here I will quote the commentator in the Evening Post, Young Eckern, as I thought met very well: ‘All decision-makers, in the EU as in Norway, know that the cheese duty does not conflict with either EEA or WTO agreements. Nor has the EU taken formal steps to prevent Norwegian import protection.’ It seemed to me to sum up well where the matter is. So no formal steps have been taken from the EU in this regard – after one year of work. So to the third and last case, and that applies to the Inline Guarantee Facility, an arrangement that provides Norwegian banking customers with the necessary security. The EU does not have the same border. They have a limit of EUR 100000. Norway has a 2 million guarantee. kr. And we need that. If a 30 m2 apartment is to be sold in this city, a bank account must suddenly have several accounts to avoid crossing borders – as an example. I am pleased with the clear signals Helgesen also sends in this case, that Norwegian interests must be safeguarded. We also know that the European Parliament's Finance Committee has just supported it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e349	Norway has got a new government, and with it follows new policies. One of the areas where this is already marked is in questions related to the EU and the EEA. When the new Council of State for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU last Thursday, the government made its European policy and Norway's relationship with the EU and the EEA a new tone – a subtle tone. The EU’s important role in many areas of society was highlighted. We listened little to the importance of promoting Norwegian interests — the more the government can adapt Norway to its policies and EU requirements. That the government will reverse veto against the Postal Directive is not surprising. There were warnings on the government platform, and it goes right into a policy that has little knowledge and respect for those who live outside the most popular areas of the country. ABC News had just announced that the EU Minister is aware of the negative consequences of many EU countries following the introduction of the EU’s third postal directive. The Council of State was informed of the so-called early warning group set up by several departments in Brussels. My question today is why the Council of State did not find it worth telling about this to the Stortinget. If one is to maintain the standard of the day and the frequency of the post-transmission following the termination of the single right for correspondence below 50 grams, the item must be compensated for above the State budget. I hope the State Council of Helgesen today can confirm that the Post will receive such compensation. This will reduce the uncertainty of business and private people who today wonder what level of service they can expect in the future. The government is keen not only to reverse veto against the Postal Directive, but also the decision to impose a percentage duty on certain customs lines on fixed cheeses and some types of meat. This news has brought joy to Brussels, but great uncertainty for the approximately 90,000 people in Norway who have made their living in the production and processing of Norwegian food. This is real policy. When WTO negotiations were agreed at Stortinget in 1994, it was clearly stated that Norway would benefit from the option of a krone and a percentage duty which at any time would best safeguard its interests in producing Norwegian food. Erna Solberg was appointed to the Committee to decide that one should have an option. If the percentage decision is terminated, Norwegian producers of milk and certain meat species will lose import protection in a short period of time. The krone toll, which is a fixed crown value, is going to be less valuable for every year. How does the government feel that Norwegian agriculture and the Norwegian food industry will survive with the Norwegian level of costs, the Norwegian climate and topography in competition with colleagues in southern Europe? That's what I want to answer during the debate. The third question I would like to highlight from the government today is related to the renunciation of sovereignty. Norway has chosen to stand outside the EU. Opposition to EU membership is great in the Norwegian people. In a growing number of cases, Norway meets the issue of the waiver of sovereignty to EU and EEA bodies. We meet it on the issue of EU financial supervision, energy, telecom, and now updated on the Paediatric Regulation. On 15 November, the State Council informed Helgesen that the Government had decided that the Paediatric Regulation could be incorporated into the EEA Agreement and that the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, would be able to impose fines on undertakings which had infringed the rules governing the marketing of medicinal products. The problem was related to the competence of fines and the absence of sovereignty was hardly mentioned. The Ministry of Justice's law department concludes that the Stortinget has not previously taken a position on a case where Norway disposes of the image in a similar way. It raises the need for a fundamental debate. The size has previously been criticised for making decisions that are ‘low’ by simple multiples. The Paediatric Regulation is a marker on whether Storting will continue to transfer images to EU bodies with simple multiplicity. In an article in New Norwegian Journal 16 May, first amanuensis Eirik Holmøyvik of the Faculty of Law, the University of Bergen Stortinget, discusses its practice of decision making under Grundlova § 26 on the basis that the waiver of sovereignty is seen as «little intervening». His conclusion is particularly clear: ‘The manner in which the Stortinget concludes agreements on the transfer of sovereignty broken by the constitution and system of the Constitution and with fundamental democratic and constitutional considerations.’;» He refers to the competence added to the Norwegian Magnificence, Government or Supreme Court under the Constitution by a body belonging to an international organisation. In spring, the Christian People's Party sent its representative, Syversen, a letter to the presidency, asking for this complex of matters to be discussed. I would like to take the initiative of the Stortinge to discuss this. We have a people who have been more sceptical about Norwegian EU membership than they were in 1994. We shall not notify Norway into the EU bit by bit.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e379	In the Left, we are fundamentally positive to the European Union as an arena for economic and political cooperation and for the building of peace and democracy across borders in Europe. The four freedoms on which European cooperation is based are an important foundation for peace and democracy. The European Union is Norway's main trading partner. Stronger integration with the EU will be positive for Norwegian and European businesses, trade and development. The left was a proponent of and has been a defender of the EEA Agreement, such as: has granted a whole decisive access for Norwegian business to the European market. In the Left, we are therefore pleased that, through its distribution to the Stortinget, the Council of State Helgesen confirms that the government will strengthen European cooperation and ensure a good framework for business through the EEA Agreement. After eight years with a continuous red-green discussion seminar on this topic, it is important for Norwegian business and Norwegian citizens that we now get peace around Norway's association with our nearest neighbouring country. A single lot claims that a continuous attack on the EEA Agreement is to stand up for Norwegian interests. I don't think there might be any doubt that putting the relationship with our most important trading partners at stake is standing up for the very opposite. In the Left, we are also pleased that the Council of State and the Government want an active dialogue with the Storting on important EU and EEA issues. European policy is no longer foreign policy; it is domestic policy. The sooner this hall can be involved, the better. A matter area identified by the Council of State as particularly important for Norway is the European climate and energy policy. The left agrees, but will nevertheless stress that Norway's energy policy against the rest of Europe should not be acting as a sales agent for Norwegian oil companies. In fact, gas is cleaner than coal, but it doesn't make it clean. If we're going to achieve pan-European climate targets, we don't have to be an energy sector with lower emissions, we need an energy sector with zero emissions. The red-green government led a European policy in the area where important cornerstones were to cut down Norwegian renewables obligations, train the construction of power cables and sell as much petroleum as possible to our neighbouring countries. The left expects another line from the new government and will raise the environmental tab high in European policy. European cooperation has done a lot of good for those of us who are so lucky to be born in the EEA area, but for those who come from outside, the road into Europe can be long and too often in tragedy. The Sanctuary of St. John pointed out to the far too many who still live on the Mediterranean and pointed out the need for a common instrument to prevent such tragedy. But when the government's solution is that Norway 'will participate in this work', it says finely little, despite the government's using a 'whole approach'. It is not that a holistic approach helps all those who lose their lives every year around the external border of Schengen – our outer borders. What helps them is a more liberal and decent immigration policy – including on European soils. At the previous meeting of the EEA Council, the Government announced that Norway would vote for the Paediatric Regulation and the third EU Postal Directive to be part of the EEA Agreement. Left supports it and can join the foundation given by the Council of State in the last week. When it comes to the issue of customs protection, there has been a lot of noise around the new government's policy. On the left, the government shares its view that from 1 January the Norwegian customs increase has damaged Norwegian interests. That's why we also voted against that customs increase in the previous session. We agree that a new policy is desirable. However, sudden conversions will have unfortunate consequences for business operators, and that is why we have asked the government a number of questions that need clarification. Exactly how a new customs policy should be developed, we want a dialogue with the government. For the Left, it is crucial that, through negotiations with the EU, we can continue to ensure safe and sustainable conditions for Norwegian agriculture in the future. We think it is quite possible to combine this with a freer and fairer trade policy, which is an objective of the EEA Agreement as well as of the Left Party programme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e405	I would like to thank the European Minister for a thorough review of European policy, but not least thank the new government and the presidency, which have found it appropriate to hold the debate on the distribution until 28 November. It annoys me a little that in eight years I haven't been able to think about it myself, to add it to the 19th anniversary of the previous EU hearing, but new costs may have contributed constructively here. It was a tidy review, but in my view he also has weaknesses. It is an arrangement that was characterized by a calm that can hardly be found if one looks around what the situation is like in most European countries today. For reality, Europe is in the midst of its deepest and most long-standing crisis in recent times. The unemployment rate in most European countries has remained stable at a high level. In Spain, the youth unemployment rate is almost 50 pst. – so every other person in a little over 20 years does not have work or education. In our neighbouring country, Sweden, the same number is approaching 25 pst. It's a situation that can have dramatic consequences over time. There are increasing differences in most European countries. There are weak employee rights. Together with that situation, it could also go beyond confidence, glued to society in European countries. It is not possible to avoid the impact on Norway as well as the pressure on wages here and the pressure for weak labour rights. For example, VG recently told about the situation on the Gardermoen in the expansion there – 150 different contractors and employment contracts down to one day for them to add there. We must make this a more central part of Norwegian European policy and influence the direction, because there is now also a clear signal that the crisis policy under way is not working. He gets criticism from economists and international organizations. A cut-off and savings policy must be replaced more by an investment policy in order to increase demand and growth. It may come closer to us for years to come than we are happy for today. Then I would like to commend the European Minister for putting the emphasis on an active European policy, and at the beginning I would also like to commend the government for that. My impression is that it is meant to be serious, and I see with excitement and interest until the continuation. I believe that there can be many good debates on developments in Europe and Norwegian European policy in the future. But then we must not get a Minister of Adaptation, but a Council of State that has the task of fighting more actively for Norwegian interests. My clear experience with the EU system is that there is very much a negotiator, where it is understood as natural that countries should stand up for their own interests in the various contexts, where appropriate. So they could be different. In climate policy and energy policy, the most important thing for us is that together in Europe we limit our greenhouse gas emissions as much as possible, and become a strong driver of an international agreement. What is important, then, is to maintain and boost the forces that will maintain good renewable energy support schemes, press for tough potential targets in Europe by 2030 – there is a lot to go on – and do the same for yourself. In other cases, it is important to fight for clear Norwegian interests. I believe that the government's handling of the Postal Directive is wrong. It may have negative consequences for Norway if we introduce the directive, and it is an honest and real political discord. In the case of ostetoll, I must say that I perceive the behaviour of the government as far as a little helpless and incomprehensible. Firstly, you go to Europe with an inadequate anchoring to alert a retreat, without knowing exactly where the train is going and without getting anything left. I don't think that's understandable. When it comes to the bank deposit guarantee, the signal is unclear, and I would like to confirm that the government will fight as far as possible for Norwegian interests and that the collective vision we have had in Norway in this matter, and that one in case it is not possible to reach, has as an alternative the right to reserve. This should be a typical case where the consequences are constrained, and on which there is broad agreement in Norway. Several things will come, and then it is important that we stand up for Norwegian interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e424	That 28 November is today's date, we may be given the impression that, on the part of the government, we are now less concerned that the old yes/no scheme will form the basis of European policy. It is time to pursue European policy on the basis of the form of association we have, and in this context, it is good and important to focus on Norwegian interests in the debate after my presentation, and in general discussion on our relationship with the EU. Now it is that Norway does not have just one interest. We have much bigger and smaller national interests. Nor does Norway have just one political position. We have different parties and different positions, and when, with the EEA Agreement, EU issues become largely domestic policies, it is natural that there are different views on individual issues. But what is really a broad consensus is that Norwegian business must be guaranteed access to the internal market and that we must be involved in the whole development of the internal market in order for that access to be effective and to be done on equal terms and at the same time as EU regulatory development, because Norwegian business is losing if there is no simultaneous development of the rules. It is also the case that a large majority in the United Kingdom in their time went in to make Norway a part of the internal market, and all parties in this Chamber who have been in alternating governments have supported the continuous incorporation of EEA acts for almost 20 years — that is probably about 20 years. 7,000 of them. It reflects a good understanding of reality from different governments, namely the understanding that ensuring the proper functioning of the EEA Agreement itself is a heavy national interest. There is no doubt that the EEA Agreement serves us well. From day to day, the predictability and non-discrimination of enterprises, students and all others interacting with the rest of Europe. It depends on Norway because we have such an open economy and export so much to the EU. Therefore, it is also in Norway’s clear interest that we act in accordance with the objectives, intentions and fundamental principles of the EEA Agreement. There shall be no doubt that Norway is following the EEA obligations effectively and correctly. This is how we maintain fundamental interests in Norway. An example of that is the question of ostetoll. The two government parties opposed the conversion of the customs regime. During the lifetime of the EEA Agreement, no Norwegian action has provoked stronger reactions on the EU side. It has been recorded at the highest level during the previous government, and when we prepared the EEA Council, there was no secret that this would be an important topic at that meeting. Then a new Norwegian government could not fail to take a look at that question. But we were just as clear that this was a process that would require thorough treatment, thorough lighting and thorough consultation, and that it is a decision that lies in the Stortinget. It was an understanding that I communicated to the Storting European Committee, and based on the response of the European Committee – among others. from the representative Svein Roald Hansen – I think that line was understood. When the reactions have been so strong, it is because increased customs barriers are the opposite of what the EEA Agreement requires, and Norwegian business is dependent on lower customs barriers, we rely on effective follow-up to EEA obligations. This is the basis for taking advantage of the opportunities available, to influence the legislation where Norway has important national considerations — to address the processes in the past, to clarify what our interests and positions are, and to have a more wide-ranging discussion on Norwegian positions. And since EU legislation is on the table, it is important to work hard for adaptations and arrangements that are appropriate in Norwegian society. That's what we're doing about the deposit guarantee, where there's no doubt that Norway is working for a permanent exception, but that we're also dealing with the discussions that are actually going on, about other solutions. There we have to, among others. commenting on what we now know is being discussed about a transitional period. The Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, and I have been very clear about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e444	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e447	I thank you for a clean article. November 28 is a date that creates good memories for a part of us. I am uncertain whether the European Minister has that kind of good memory around November 28th, but I believe that what he needs to stress in his work related to the Stortinget is to ensure back coverage in the Stortinget, and this was also made clear in the European Committee. That's the understanding Stortinget has of the role of the European Minister. This is a special debate, because it is the first time that the Storting is discussing an EEA/EU statement without the presence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This government, in its declaration, wants a more active European policy and involvement of the Stortinget. In what way does this mean that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is not present – for the first time in many years – a strengthening of the role of the Storting and a strengthened European policy on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e458	The fact that the government has established its own State Council post on EEA and EU matters reflects the fact that the EU and EEA processes are important for Norway and that there is a need for a stronger political grip and coordination of that effort, and that it is natural, since this is a significant issue of domestic policy, that this position is anchored at the Prime Minister’s office. This is the basis for the government’s work on EU matters. There is a need to coordinate between ministries, there is a need for a peak of Norwegian positions, there is a need for more active consultations, and having a separate State Council post for this work is an expression of a higher ambition. And in this context, it is not particularly significant that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is not present in this Chamber – we have two ministers present in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e465	As far as reactions, noise and criticism from the EU against Norway are concerned, I think that the European Minister, or the Council of State, should check what happened when we took the EU to the WTO because of the salmon case. So that's nothing new. In its meeting with the Norwegian environment in Brussels in advance of the EEA Council, the Council of State said that the new government wanted more debate on European issues, that is good, and how we can better exploit what he called the ‘possibilities room’. That's good, too. There is no new idea; it has not been picked up from the Right election slogan, and it has been set up since 1994. But does the Council of States realize that this can also mean that both neighbouring countries, the Commission and not least Members of the European Parliament can become a bit and much annoyed by this small country that is going to have it a little different from what the others have agreed on – since the Council of State is so afraid of irritating the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e474	I am not afraid of irritating the EU, but neither is it an autonomous goal to irritate the EU and cause irritation around the EEA, where Norway is actually the country most dependent on the functioning of the EEA. What's important is that we work more to get into processes earlier. The potential to create a positive impact on Norwegian interests is greater the earlier we get in. It is also possible to have a dialogue with EU Member States, with the Commission and with Parliament on various elements of the proposals that are under development rather than to focus on legislative proposals when they are on the table. Then it's often too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e481	We know that the EU has not taken any formal steps to prevent Norwegian import protection in the case of ostetoll, so we can conclude that the change that has taken place was fully in line with the WTO Agreement, with the EEA Agreement. When it comes to protectionism and agriculture, it is clear that the EU does not come out better than Norwegian policies do in that area. But I thought that what the Council of State concluded with was very interesting, because I understand that in the dialogue with the EU he placed great emphasis on the fact that this is a decision that the Storting should take. And when the EU has not then taken any formal steps in this matter, and they know that it is the decision of the Greatness that is at stake, then it has to be possible for the EU to accept this, as long as the Greatness stands firm on the decision one made around the ostetoll. I want it confirmed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e490	It is the Stortinget, from the Norwegian side, which has given its support to Norwegian participation in the EEA, to the EEA Agreement and to the ongoing work to maintain and strengthen the EEA, in a process in which the EU is developing in many ways quite differently from that thought when the EEA Agreement was established. And one of the commitments we have made in the EEA Agreement, under Article 19, is a gradual reduction of customs barriers. This is why Norway has reacted strongly to the opposite. There is an understanding that there is a major decision on the basis, but it does not mean that the reactions to what is perceived as going in the opposite direction of the intention of the EEA Agreement become somewhat milder.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e495	One of the most controversial issues at European level — a question that has also created a lot of discussion in the Norwegian European policy — is a topic that the Council of State has so far not mentioned in a word, namely privacy. The revelations of U.S. intelligence have in an unpleasant way reminded us of how vulnerable we are to digital surveillance, and of how far the governance in different countries is willing to go. Unfortunately, Norwegian government powers, represented by the Right and Labour Party, are also applicable, which, in the previous period, are part of the EU's highly intrusive data storage directive. On the positive side, the European Commission has now proposed the creation of a European Data Protection Supervisor, but as far as the proposal is concerned, only the Member States’ supervisory authorities will be represented. How will the Council of States ensure that Norway is also represented — with full rights — in the European Data Protection Supervisor?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e502	It is positive that the EU is working more to strengthen citizens' privacy, and it is not least positive in the light of what we have seen in recent months. Monitoring is important, intelligence is important, but democratic anchoring and control must be exercised. Data protection issues have become more important on the EU side. From the Norwegian side, we take a positive view of this, while at the same time wanting to create flexibility in the legislation to safeguard national interests, among other things. as regards public access to information, as regards the need to avoid unnecessary burdens on business, in relation to specific forms of processing of personal data in the public sector, etc. We believe it is important to ensure Norway's participation in the bodies that may be set up at European level. It is not that the European Minister can ensure this participation, but we will work hard for Norwegian interests in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e511	In 2014, we have heard the 200th anniversary of Basil and the 20th anniversary of the EU decision. The same year, a decision was also taken in this room to approve new WTO legislation. In the case of a percentage and a centimetre, Stortinget decided that one would use a centimetre or a percentage in the form that provided the best protection at any time. Now, when we hear the Council of State saying that one wants to change that decision, does one think that one is acting in accordance with the Stortinge's decision to at any time choose the form that gives the best protection — something that many other countries are doing? Canada is switching between a percentage and a centimetre. Many other countries do. Many other countries protect their agriculture — including the EU, which sometimes resembles Norway’s profile: they are defensive of agriculture, but offensive to industry and services. But they are offensive in bilateral negotiations on agriculture, for example. with Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e518	Our starting point is that the EEA Agreement is so important for the breadth of Norwegian business that we want to follow up on the commitments that lie there. The solutions we choose under those commitments are up to broad national processes. In the krona toll/percentage question, it's up to the Storting. With regard to the relationship with WTO commitments, we have never stated – nor has the EU – that the cheese duty has been outside our WTO commitments. Nor is there a requirement for any specific procedures or alert procedures to the WTO system. I can't see that there is a disagreement about models between parties in Norway in this context, so we should be acting in violation of WTO conditions and WTO discussions in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e526	I agree that irritation is not a goal in itself. That's why I also think it was right for the European Minister to go through the ostetolls and the thinking, and I'm now interpreting to him that the government will look for good anchoring processes in advance with the Storting in central matters. I think that's important. But I have a question, because I noticed the same thing as the representative Huitfeldt, about the Minister for Foreign Affairs: From time to time, not so often, it happens that Norway and the EU have very different views on important trade and other foreign policy issues, or even come into conflict. In such a situation – will it be the European Minister for Foreign Affairs or the Minister for Foreign Affairs who is the Constitutional Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e533	My responsibility is to manage the tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in matters of the EEA and EU affairs. This means that links, discussions and conflicts with the EU system fall within my remit. Bilateral relations with European countries and relations with EU foreign and security policies lie with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Security and defence policy lies with the Minister of Defence. Of course, when we deal with important and heavy issues against the EU system, we will also make use of active bilateral contacts, and there is the very best relationship and cooperation between the foreign minister and me.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e540	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e543	In the fisheries sector, Norway’s relationship with the EU is regulated in such a way that we are outside and within the same time frame. The management of the resources is outside the scope of the EEA Agreement and regulated in its own bilateral agreements. The trade in fish is covered by a separate protocol – Protocol 9 – to the EEA Agreement. In the veterinary field, we are harmonised with the EU and the EEA Agreement applies. The aim of the new government is to continue and strengthen cooperation with the EU in the field of fisheries. Norway and the EU are bound together because we share important common fish stocks. We must therefore seek to agree on common management solutions. That is why the annual quota negotiations are important. That's where we work to find the good solutions together and agree on quotas on stocks that we share. There are also many issues on the agenda in the negotiations for 2014. In recent years, Norway has had special cooperation with the EU in the case of mackerel. The issue is that in the last four years the coastal states of Norway, the EU, Iceland and the Faeroe Islands have not reached an agreement on a coastal state agreement on the management of mackerel, because Iceland and the Faeroe Islands require a larger proportion of the population. I was in Brussels earlier this week at my second meeting with the EU Fisheries Commissioner, where we agreed to continue this cooperation, with a view to achieving a new common strategy. The aim is to put in place a new long-term solution to the sustainable management of mackerel. Because of the massacre, the EU now wants to postpone negotiations on a bilateral agreement. Norway has been and is still prepared to start negotiations on the bilateral agreement. But we have to deal with the fact that the European Union does not see this as appropriate now. When we get started, I assume that we will arrive at an agreement for the benefit of Norwegian fishermen and industry in the EU. Every day, all year, 36 million Norwegian seafood meals are eaten worldwide. 20 million of these are consumed in the EU. We're talking about export values for over 30 billion. kr. Norway is clearly the EU’s largest seafood supplier. But this is not reflected in the market conditions we meet in the EU. Norway has less market access than our competitors. It is true that Protocol 9 to the EEA Agreement provides zero duty on products such as cod, seines and hay, but for salmon, herring, mackerel and shrimps the customs duty is high and increasing with the level of processing. A herring with added brine, a little vinegar, pepper and cut into pieces, meets more than six times the EU customs duty than if exported as raw material. It is shown on the price label in the store and, of course, also on export statistics. Good market access is essential for Norwegian seafood to maintain its position in Europe. The next opportunity to discuss this with the EU is the negotiations on the EEA financial instruments for the period 2014 to 2019. The current system and the temporary duty-free fishing quotas will apply until 30 April next year. The government has an offensive approach to market access for Norwegian fish. Norway has achieved improved market access in such negotiations in the past and at the latest in the autumn related to the Croatia enlargement. Once again at the negotiating table, the government will require further improvements in market access. The government has great ambitions for Norway as a knowledge nation. This applies not least to knowledge of the sea. An analysis published in 2012 estimated the potential for a six-fold increase in marine turnover by 2050. We won't get there without new knowledge. The Government therefore welcomes the EU's commitment to blue growth in the new Framework Programme for Research, Horizon 2020. The economic activity at sea is intensifying, diversifying and moving further from country to country. In the future, increased use of biological resources is expected in the deep seas. In this work, it is uplifting that Norway and the EU share their ambitions to invest more in biomarine industries. Norway is therefore fully participating in the Horizon 2020 programme. Now that the EU is increasing its blue research, this provides exciting opportunities for Norwegian marine and maritime research communities to assert themselves further. For the fisheries and port of Norway, it is essential that our research institutions make full use of the opportunities provided by Horizon 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e569	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e572	I noticed that the Council of State said that Norway has poorer market access in the EU, and that good market access is very important – something that, of course, I fully agree with. Our most important market is Europe, and it is a Europe that is tired. In order for Norwegian fishermen to sell their fish in Europe, marketing and marketing are important. But the Solberg government has actually cut off the important growth package for fishermen – among other things. in the marketing of cod. This is certainly contrary to the need and what would be common sense: using the low cod price to enter old and new markets. What short-term measures does the Minister have for our fishermen and our fish to win new markets in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e581	The representative Ingrid Heggø points to something that is quite right; that the Union market is the most important market in the Norwegian fishing industry. This is why we are fully focused on the need for market access to become a central issue when we are now discussing and negotiating these new EEA-related financial instruments. It is quite right that it is important to market Norwegian fish, and it is done on a large scale. I have recently had a meeting with the Norwegian Maritime Council, which has presented its plans for the next year, which involves a number of activities in many central EU countries. I am very confident that both industry – i.e. single companies – and Norway’s sea wire have a good and coordinated effort and clear strategies for how this market can become an even more important market for Norwegian fish.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e588	I note that the minister is not willing to spend more money on marketing, which the government Stoltenberg saw the need for and was willing to do. Another thing that was not mentioned specifically was working with UUU – illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. This was a bet area for the government of Stoltenberg, while we also work very much with drafts. Now the government actually cuts Solberg 14.1 million. kr in the 2014 budget, and the Minister himself acknowledged in reply to my written questions that this will probably go beyond resource control. Europe is, of course, an important piece to get on the team, both against discards and against UUU fishing. Has the Minister given up the objective that this is an important field of activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e595	I am very pleased that the representative Ingrid Heggo is asking that very question. In my first meeting with Fisheries Commissioner Damanaki, this was precisely the subject, namely the fact that the EU has now developed a fisheries policy that is more and more similar to the Norwegian one. Just this with illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing was a topic and that the EU has now introduced a ban on discards was a topic. I feel more and more confident that close fisheries cooperation between Norway and the EU has actually produced very good results in Brussels. Although it is cut in the appropriations for monitoring, there is still sufficient resources in the system for monitoring, and for us to have a fishing that takes place within the framework of the rules and laws that apply.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e602	I must say that I was a little surprised to see the Minister for Fisheries here today, because fishing was such a small part of the statement made by the Minister for European Affairs to the Stortinget. The fact that the Minister for Fisheries – of all the trade ministers – was going to be here today was a little surprising. There were many other subjects that were also important in the presentation. However, I often believe that this has been the case when EU and EEA debates have been held in Stortinget; that the Minister for Fisheries has been sent away and has also tried to set up fisheries and market access for fish against customs protection for agriculture. This has often been used as a strategy. This has often led to many midwives showing what risks you can face. That is why I would like a little clear speech from the Minister for Fisheries today. Can the Council of State to the Stortinget confirm or disclaim whether the EU has ever linked ostetoll to any relevant theme on the fisheries side?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e609	It is clear that the European Union, at Commissioner Damanaki's meetings with her, has raised issues related to Norway's introduction of barriers to trade, and she has suggested that it could mean that the EU could see with less gentle eyes the need to gain better market access for Norwegian fish. It's actually a fact. It was a theme of the first meeting. It is clear that Norwegian fishing industry – the Swedish Fisheries and Aquaculture Association, the Norwegian Maritime Association – has all written letters and been very clear that Norway introduces trade barriers that allow Norwegian seafood to face more resistance outside, is the exact opposite of what is needed in a situation where it becomes more important to obtain the best possible market access.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e615	To spring, our neighbouring countries will choose a new European Parliament, a European Parliament that has gained increasing power, not least after the Treaty of Lisbon. It is a power that Parliament has shown that they are sometimes willing to use. In one case, Norwegian interests were seriously affected. It was in the so-called sabre. Now it seems like the WTO will rescue us after the red-green government slept an hour. My question to the Council of State is: How does the new government intend to ensure that we are present when decisions are taken, capture things earlier and ensure that Norwegian interests are safeguarded, even when what is happening in the European Parliament? The reason why I ask is that unfortunately the EEA Agreement does not guarantee us enough opportunities to do so, and then it will be up to the government to make sure that we take care of our interests anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e622	Yes, this is an important theme. The fact that this decision was taken in the EU in the case of sales is an important theme for Norwegian fisheries and seafood. The taxation of seals is important for maintaining fish stocks that are sustainable and can be harvested for the purpose we normally believe is important, i.e. for human food. We have now received this report, and we will take the time to study the content and to look at how Norway will follow this up. I would like to say that we do not allow ourselves to limit what is within the EEA Agreement in terms of safeguarding Norwegian fishing interests. Of course, we will follow closely what is now happening in the European Parliament, and use the possibilities we have to influence us to have a different outcome in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e627	I'm happy to see the Minister of Fisheries in Stortinget today, I, and I hope we'll see more councils as well. Today, there are also more representatives and press here than ever in these European debates, which are positive. I want to follow up where the representative Arnstad left off. Of course, the Fisheries Commissioner took this up with the Minister for Fisheries, otherwise she would not have done her job. She fights for the interests of the European Union. I don't have a number of times I myself have listed matters that are important to Norway – outside my own field – in meeting others. It does so when it is important for Norwegian interests. But what I would like to have answered is: Is there any documented example that the case of ostetoll has had consequences for Norwegian fishing exports? I repeat the word «documentable» – not «the feeling of», or «meetings» – but documentable, research-based results, analyses or statistics that show decline, legislative changes, i.e. a documented link between them?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e636	Documentable – I don't know what the representative Solhjell is doing – but we have a lot of Norwegian fish that need a market. When such decisions are taken in Norway, which is obviously a major irritant in the EU, one can only wonder what export figures would have looked like if this type of decision had not been taken by the Norwegian side. I am very concerned to emphasise what the European Minister also stressed; it is important that we also respect the rules of the game that apply in the EEA area, and that we act in the way that we want the EU and the Member States to act in terms of availability, and have the rules on how to maximise access to each other's markets.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e641	I am also happy to see the Minister for Fisheries here in the Chamber today. In recent years, Norway has made an exchange agreement with the EU. We have given up white fish from the Barents Sea in a trading relationship – in the last years approx. 15 000 to 20 000 tonnes. In exchange, we have had fishermen who do not fish white fish, which is mainly in the Barents Sea. I wonder if the Minister for Fisheries might consider withdrawing this trade with the white fish and giving it back to the fishermen who actually fish it, mainly fishermen in North Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e648	I thank you for that question. Hopefully we will start the bilateral negotiations with the European Union in less than too long. It is clear that, on the Norwegian side, we need to constantly assess what is appropriate and how we should help to strengthen the trade with which we have a long tradition of operating in Norway. I'm taking the tape from the representative, and then I think we're going to evaluate how the trade actually goes, and whether that's the way it should be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e655	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e658	Social security exports may be a threat to our welfare systems. The right to a daily allowance has been linked in Norway to the requirement that you have to be available to the Norwegian labour market, but after an advisory opinion of the EFTA Court, Borgarting Lawyers states that the old Social Security Regulation requires some unemployed workers, the so-called improper frontier workers. For the Workers' Party, it is important to require that one be available to the Norwegian labour market if one raises daily pay in Norway. If this develops, it can have major consequences and contribute to more social security exports, to an extent that we have not previously known. The debate on social security exports is taking place in many European countries. It is important for the government to work towards greater freedom for the Member States to take their own decisions. It's important, especially in a country where we have a high level of well-being. Welfare services, rather than cash benefits, are a very effective way of preventing social security exports. Adjusting some of the payments according to the country in which you live has been difficult due to current EU legislation. I believe that we should work for this in terms of disability benefit. The level of disability benefit is adapted to the Norwegian cost level, and I believe that it should be adjusted according to the country in which you live. Enlargement to the east has given Norway access to a lot of labour at a time when there is a crisis in Europe and a great need for skilled workers at home. However, increased labour supply must not go beyond Norwegian pay and working conditions. For the Workers' Party, it is important that the rights of workers in the Enforcement Directive of the Broadcasting Directive do not restrict our access to the provision of sanctions against social dumping. Former Foreign Minister Espen Barth Eide was in the European Committee about a year ago. He then said that he was concerned that this directive should not have an exhaustive list of control measures. This means that Norway must be given the freedom to impose penalties other than those on this list. If you get such an exhaustive list, there will be limits to what measures we can take against social dumping. That is why I believe it is important to continue that work. The Storting wants good cooperation with the new European Minister, although he has stumbled in the beginning by addressing a few controversial issues at relatively short notice. Ostetoll and the third EU postal directive are examples of such cases. Author Vigdis Hjorth has written a novel about a woman working against the third EU postal directive. It is set up at the theatre in the new year, and I would like to take the opportunity to invite the European Minister to the premiere of the ‘Live the Mailhorn!’. We all have a common interest in a larger public discussion of the various directives, and when it can even inspire art, I believe that this should arouse the interest of the European Minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e669	I hope the committee chairman has more theater tickets. The fact that we are today given the opportunity to discuss important issues with a minister dedicated to working with Europe is a milestone. It is positive, not least because we can now put important issues on the agenda of a Council of State whose job is to coordinate our work with our relationship with the EU and ensure that Norwegian interests are heard. It is also positive that the Council of State will more actively consult the Storting through our European Committee, as he has already shown: only five weeks as the Minister responsible for our relationship with the EU and the EEA, and two meetings already held in this committee. A clearer and more forward-looking European policy is good for Norway. We must guard against active European policies becoming only fine words that we use in European communications every four years. Action must be followed up and used wisely. State Council Helgesen spoke in her presentation to the Swedish Government about the government’s project of realising the knowledge society, including vulnerable groups and ensuring competitiveness, and how it fits well with EU priorities. The Prime Minister's visit to Berlin last week and the talks that were held there are well in line with this objective. We should not only have a good relationship with the EU but also good bilateral relations with like-minded countries in areas that promote growth and innovation for Norway and Europe. At the same time, we should take our share of the responsibility for mitigating the effects of the financial crisis, inter alia. through IMF support schemes and EEA funds contributing to social cohesion. Countries by country on this continent have gone through crises of different nature, economic and social. We have strong economic ties with Europe and are affected by the fluctuations of our European neighbours. It is in our interest for countries to get their jobs moving and get up from the crisis. At the same time, many people move in response to the crisis. Unemployment, especially among young people, has become a generational problem. Mobility that characterises the EU creates opportunities, but also challenges. It is becoming more important to follow up and clarify welfare systems in EEA legislation and to contribute to making the principle of free movement more sustainable. Europe is a continent to which people flock. Lampedusa accidents have shown with all clarity the dangers and frustration of people on the run, and the capacity challenge of the migration system, particularly in southern European countries. At the same time, measures aimed at the root causes of migration are needed. I am pleased that the government is providing humanitarian aid to Syria, is actively involved in strengthening the reception apparatus in Greece and is working on joint management of migration across the Schengen external borders, so that migrants can be properly received. In recent years, the EU has undergone rapid enlargement, which has gone remarkably well. New countries come to the EU because security and transparency are valued. Countries where respect for human rights has not always been a matter of course are now becoming members of the Union. Last out was Croatia, which was recorded as member country no. 28, and we're pleased with the job done by the new government to establish good connections there. Other countries come after. These processes have been combined to strengthen stability in the Western Balkans, an area of the world where Norway has played – and will play in the coming time – an important role. Just the new Member States are active in EU neighbourhood policy in the east, recently updated on the work of the EU-Ukraine Free Trade Agreement. Countries like Poland know what it means to go in the right direction. In a few years, they have become among the EU’s most influential. These countries were therefore most dependent on the requirements when Ukraine failed to comply with the requirements of the Free Trade Agreement with the EU – the requirement to release Julia Timoshenko. Support for the EU in the streets of MinskThe representative Graham said Minsk, but said Kiev. speaks its clear language. The work on human rights and democracy is central to the Right Party Government. Also on our continent, there's a lot of work going on. Through the Council of Europe, Norway is an active participant in many of the processes, but much is also being done from the EU itself – as a political force. The situation of minorities, and also journalists, in many countries is dangerous and should arouse concern at home here. It is good to think that our EEA funds are an instrument that contributes precisely to the construction of society and democracy and closer integration in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e693	I believe in the strength and cohesion of the nation state. I am therefore opposed to Norwegian membership of the European Union. But I believe in competition, free trade and the market economy. I am therefore a member of the EEA Agreement. The EEA Agreement is based on the four freedoms. As a general rule, it shall mean the free movement of goods across borders, the free movement of workers, the freedom of citizens of one country to provide services in another and the free movement of capital. Those are healthy principles. Free flow is positive in the context of culturally related nations. From this point of view, I believe that Norway should approach the EEA problem in a pragmatic and not dogmatic way. We're always going to have a consumer perspective. The objective of the EEA Agreement is to strengthen trade and economic relations between the parties, with a level playing field and compliance with the same rules. The EEA Agreement continues to have consequences which require careful consideration of the end of the monopoly of the national State. In my article I want to touch on two issues that have received great attention here in the country, and on which it is essential to find good solutions. This concerns the bank deposit guarantee and the social security export issue. I'm glad to see that the government is deliberately working on this. We must recognise that Norway has for many years established a welfare system and a level of well-being that can create market distortions differently. Sometimes such distortions are a competitive advantage, sometimes a competitive disadvantage. In any case, the objective must be to ensure that enterprises in the EEA area and EU enterprises face almost equal conditions of competition and that the ‘best and cheapest’ combination is achieved. A unanimous collapse has repeatedly expressed its support for the continuation of the Norwegian bank deposit guarantee. Something else would be weird. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance has stressed that the government is working actively to maintain the Norwegian deposit guarantee scheme, and that the aim is to obtain a permanent exemption. It has not been granted that the Norwegian guarantee scheme offers any form of distortion of competition. But that is precisely what some in the EU claim. In any case, it is important that all parties on the Stortinget continue to support the government's struggle to maintain today's order. This case is not suitable for political coining. It is therefore important that the Minister of Finance has the whole Storting behind her when discussing this matter with the EU. Today's coverage means 56 pst. the deposits with Norwegian banks are covered. A guarantee scheme at EU level would reduce coverage to 47 pst. Of course, it would be unfavorable and could create uncertainty. A little comfort is that Norwegian banks are very solid, and that insolvency is a rarity. It is also possible to create accounts in several banks, thus increasing the total amount of the guarantee. In my opinion, the debate is linked to possible social security exports of even larger dimensions, because today's schemes can be an encouragement to bypass the foundation behind the Norwegian welfare model. Norway has strong welfare systems, and the intention has always been that these schemes should be able to pay for what they are intended to do in the high-cost country of Norway. This means that benefits can pay too much more in countries with a lower cost level. It violates the very principle of the welfare society. Exports of social security benefits and other financial support schemes at the same time imply that the turnover normally generated by the payments is no longer taking place in Norway but abroad. Such a consequence is to live with, but not if social security exports do not find their natural constraint. With this as a hindrance, I am pleased that the Minister of Labour has so clearly indicated that he will use all the possibilities under the EEA Agreement to index welfare payments. Regardless of what one might think of the cash support, it is completely unreasonable that the cash support paid gives three times the purchasing power of the benefit, as is the case with Poland, for example. In reality, it means a cash support of NOK 18 000 per month. The objective of the EU and EEA rules is to ensure equal rights for all. This does not happen without adjusting the purchasing power of social security exports. It was a pleasure to hear that Chairman Huitfeldt was clear on – I have almost never heard a working party politician be so clear – that he wanted to tighten up. One would almost think she was part of this government, and not part of the previous government. I am pleased to hear that, and I think we can certainly agree with the Workers' Party on a number of measures. Britain's Prime Minister, David Cameron, writes in an article in the Financial Times that Europe needs to reform to regain people's trust. He will therefore introduce a number of measures to limit access to the UK welfare system. One of these is the introduction of a three-month period of qualification for the payment of social security benefits, which can then only be paid for six months. Furthermore, immigrants from EU countries who only work part-time and do not serve above a certain level will lose access to some of the benefits. New entrants from EU countries will also not be able to apply for housing allowances. I don't reach anymore, I see, so I end here. I am pleased that the government is addressing these challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e731	The current European policy shall be a ‘Teamwork’, said the Council of State in its statement to the European Parliament. It's an intention I support. I hope that it will be followed up in a proper way by the government. At this stage, we too should be representatives of big business. In my view – and independently of the EU’s perspective – we can only become more active and perhaps also more interested in what is going on in the EU. As many have said, when the European Union and the EEA are so important to our everyday lives, debates on the EU and the EEA are as much domestic debates as foreign debates. It's about our everyday lives. The width of the debate so far documents it. Our commitment can make a difference. I myself have experience in the process a few years ago around the Consumer Directive, where Norwegian interests – including we parliamentarians – were enshrined in the final EU decision in many areas. I therefore liked the initiative of the previous government to send the first large-scale representatives to Brussels to focus more on relevant EEA processes and EU/EEA matters. The Council of State presentation included many interesting policy challenges in the Norway/EU/EEA relationship. In this context, I would like to pay tribute to the EU/EEA information trade union group of Storting, which has prepared an information package for this debate and where they contribute complementary knowledge in many important areas. The very first thing that meets us in the background note is that they quote jusprofessor Mads Andenæs and first amanuensis Halvard Haukeland Fredriksen, who writes in a chronicle in today’s business life on 18 November – under the challenging title ‘Surveillance flake threatens the EEA Agreement’ –: ‘In the Norwegian media’s coverage of Norway’s relationship with the EU, individual cases of cheese, mail and mackerel dominate, but at the table of European Minister Helgesen, the supervisory raft should be at the top of the pile.’ If we read on in the chronicle, we see that we are invited to a debate on whether we – government and magnification – are more concerned with individual issues than with the challenges of developing independent EU agencies with the power to make binding decisions and the possible consequences for Norway. The Constitution limits the right to transfer powers to EU agencies. EU developments suggest that agencies will be given greater powers. Many people believe that in the future we will face this challenge in an increasing number of areas, for example: in the financial sector, where the new EU capital rules for banks may become a meeting point in such a debate. Although I have a different view of the European Union from that of Mr Navarsete, I agree with her that this must be discussed. We note that this debate is very much alive in Denmark, among other things. The Danish Prime Minister has announced a referendum on Danish participation in the EU Patent Court. I am therefore pleased that in its presentation the Council of State was concerned that Norway's participation in agencies or supervision could raise some fundamental questions regarding the Constitutional Framework for the Transfer of Competences to International Bodies. The economic situation in the EU/EEA has been very challenging for a long time. That it's been challenging, we see a growth of 0.3 pst. in the second quarter of 2013, Commission President Barroso suggested a cautious optimism for the rest of the year. With this perspective, there will be huge contrasts when the spokespersons of the State Council's own party use a lot of energy to describe a Norway in economic crisis, when we know that there is a growth in the economy of over 2 psts, and also have had productivity growth for many years. Only this morning millions of people around Europe have awakened in despair because they do not know how to meet the day and tomorrow. Drawing a picture of Norway in an economic crisis — from this perspective — is only embarrassing. The effectiveness, defence and defence industries will be the subject of a meeting of the European Council later this year, areas of great interest to Norway. Many have stated that it is high time that European leaders gave greater attention to defence, a view that I share. At the same time, it is claimed from several quarters that there are still some uncertainties about the objective of a common defence strategy for the EU. For this reason, the debate on European defence is important for both the EU and Norway. Norway has close cooperation with the EU in foreign and security policy, and we share many common interests in this area. Evidence of this is that the Defence Directive will enter into force in Norway on 1 January 2014. Finally, I hope for further debate in the important area of security and defence policy for our country, and where both the opportunities and the challenges of such cooperation will be a topic.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e759	The European Community is not a matter of course. The story we have in common is a journey of brutality. Fortunately, it is also a record of peace, reconciliation and brotherhood. The economic crisis in southern Europe is affecting confidence in national politicians and parliaments, but also the legitimacy and empowerment of the European Union among many Europeans. It is therefore important that we politicians contribute to the dissemination of knowledge about the importance of the political community in Europe as a buffer against extremism and as a catalyst for economic progress in crisis-affected European countries. In a world where the relative importance of Europe is weakened in the face of emerging economies in the East and the South, there is no reason to believe that Europe’s country will cope better separately than they do together – on the contrary. Therefore, Norway’s relationship with the EU is crucial through the EEA Agreement. Norway is a small, open and international economy that depends more on good access to the internal market in Europe than most of our neighbouring countries. Borderless challenges cannot be solved in solitude; they must be solved through cooperation. The challenge of climate change is at the forefront of the boundless challenges. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State chose to raise climate and energy as one of the most important issues on his agenda in the coming years. It is an assessment I share, not least because the EU's climate and energy policy is now in the loop by 2030. It is expected that the Commission in the new year will promote a communication to follow up the Green Paper launched earlier this year. The EU ETS has been heavily criticised in recent years, mainly because the allowance price is low. However, this does not mean that the quota system has played its part. The price of allowances is low, for example: because several European countries have been experiencing the worst economic crisis since World War II. It is also low because different European countries adhere to an energy policy with partly large subsidies for new renewable energy. In total, this means that the allowance price is too low to trigger new technologies and emission reduction measures of particular importance. It is a significant challenge that needs to be addressed in the post-2020 period. At the same time, emissions in the allowances market are lowered annually by 2020. Total emissions in the EU are falling. If the EU is to achieve the targets of 80-95 pst. emission reductions in 2050 need to be lowered much faster than the current one, which will also help raise the emission price to a level where it contributes to trigger emission reduction measures such as truly mons. When I spend so much time on the EU's quota system, it is because it is and should be the EU's primary instrument for achieving the emission targets in 2050, but also because several other countries and regions are now following in the footsteps of the EU and establishing different trading mechanisms. China is first among them. Seven regional quota markets are now being rolled out, the largest of which, in Guangdong, will cover an area of 400 million people. South Korea, Mexico, Quebec and California are others who have been inspired by the EU. It gives hope that an international trading mechanism that is real can be established in the long term and underlines the importance of further developing the EU system beyond 2020. It is difficult to envisage a solution to the climate challenge without the success of developing a cost-effective technology for the capture and storage of CO2. This job cannot be done by Norway alone, so it is important for the Council of State to give a strong signal to the EU from the Stortinget that the EU must also give priority to the work on CO2 management in the coming years. The Council of State stated that Norwegian gas and Norwegian hydropower can play a greater role as a balancing force for wind and sun in the EU. There is an ambition for signed parts, but there is also an ambition to include Norwegian inter-national connections if Germany and the United Kingdom realise national capacity markets. As Mr Hansen mentioned, the EFTA/EEA delegation has sent a resolution to the Commission concerning the issues I have now discussed. The resolution was endorsed by Iceland and Liechtenstein, and it is not just the government that has ambitions to pursue a more offensive European policy. That is also the responsibility of Stortinget, and we have started the job. Finally, let me express great expectations about the role of the Council of State in European policy. The representative, Solhjell, said Norway must fight harder for our national interests. I agree that it's important, but at the same time you have to be interested in being interesting. Norwegian European policy can not only be about what is good for Norway; we also need to have a look at what is good for Europe. The two are not completely independent sizes. It's interesting to hear the intense commitment to retain a state monopoly on the carrying of letters weighing less than 50 grams, which is being replaced by e-mails. It can hardly be classified under the category ‘important national interest’, regardless of what one might think of competition in the postal sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e788	The 18th. December we can celebrate that it is 100 years since Willy Brandt was born. In the spring we could celebrate that it was 80 years since he came to Norway for the first time. On 7 April 1933, 19-year-old Herbert Frahm – who was his original name – came from Lübeck to Oslo. Brandt's stay in Norway marked all of his long political activity. In 1971 Brandt received the Nobel Peace Prize, among others. for its «East policy», a policy that was quite correct, but also controversial – mainly among Brandt's political opponents, but in fact also among a part of his party traps. Brandt's philosophy was that Europe belongs together, Europe's people are friends and have to stand together, Europe's country has common interests, and it was – in his opinion – artificially dividing Europe into two, east and west. Fortunately, Brandt experienced the fall of the iron carpet and the wall, and that was when he said the familiar words: «Now it grows together, what belongs together» – now it grows together, what belongs together. Norway is also part of this Europe. We have an interest in Europe's functioning, that it's order. The furniture industry in Møre, the fisheries in the north and the petroleum companies in Lysaker depend on the fact that trade and interaction with Europe are simply under way. I am pleased that the new government bases its relationship with the EU on the EEA agreement – as the previous government did. The EEA Agreement is the very foundation of our relationship with Europe and the EU. However, over the previous years, we have heard – especially from the representatives of the Right – that a more active European policy is needed. I therefore listened with interest to the statement by the European Minister – I assume that it is permissible to call him that, because I noticed that the Grandfather did just that. I expected that there would be some clear messages from the Minister of Europe about where the government will, how they will work towards the European Union, and I therefore listened very carefully to the presentation. I was waiting for answers to what a more active European policy would mean. I did not see very clearly what the new active European policy should mean. But an active European policy must mean that we are just going to work more actively for Norwegian interests, or does a more active European policy mean something else? What is meant by a more active European policy? Everyone in Europe does not agree with everything. There are a number of conflicts of interest that need to be addressed every single day. There are regional contradictions, there are political contradictions, there are economic contradictions, there are nutritional contradictions – and certainly many others. We need to find solutions to conflicts and conflicts of interest, but not so that we go to Brussels and say that we should do what you say – anyway. Work is allowed for Norwegian interests – in fact, it is Stortinget’s and the government’s job to work for Norwegian interests. I have to say that it doesn't make a very deep impression when I see Danish EU parliamentarians squeezing on TV about the Norwegian cheesetoll and the meat toll. I guess I could say European parliamentarians in one place, because that's the same thing we see all the time. Maybe we should ask ourselves the question what's his purpose, what's his commitment? He is of course concerned with Danish interests and the Danish agriculture, and that is quite okay, it is entirely legal. It is quite fine that he works for Danish agriculture, but then it is also quite fine that we work for Norwegian agriculture. Finally, let me say a little about the third postal directive, which is now clearly to be implemented. I don't think we should say no to directives just to say no, but when particular Norwegian conditions warrant it, we should go a few rounds with the EU. Here is the very peculiar Norwegian geographical context. The result of the implementation of the Third Postal Directive will clearly be that some people are shivering the flow of today's market and making money where it is profitable to operate the postal network, while it is becoming more expensive to operate the other postal network. Either we get a worse offer, or we need to spend more money on postal services. Willy Brandt was awarded the Peace Prize for her Eastern Policy – I don't think the Norwegian Government gets any prize for its cheese policy!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e819	It has been said that in foreign policy you don't have friends, you just have interests. And in this debate, there is a lot of talk – fortunately – about how we should take care of our interests as a nation. And that also has to be point number. 1 in our relationship with the European Union. Energy and climate policy has been raised by the European Minister in his presentation. I'm glad. I agree with the assessment that it may be one of the most important links we have with the EU. We are allies in international climate work – we share the objective that global warming should not increase by more than two degrees. We agree with instruments internationally, and we support each other in this work. So it's also the way we're trading partners in energy. Norway is a major energy supplier to Europe. We are the largest gas seller in Europe. We have significant exchanges of power with Europe with our renewable energy. If we now see how Europe's climate policy is moving with the three 2020 objectives, it is a mixed picture that stands out. We see, as many people have seen in the past, that CO2 emissions are falling, partly as a result of an economic crisis. There is not so much progress in the phase-in of new renewable energy, also due to the crisis, and in terms of energy efficiency improvement, there is no binding objective either. But it's moving forward, and it's now shaping a new policy towards 2030. In that picture we have some interests that we have to take care of as an energy nation. The European Union-wide allowance system is functioning poorly. It works well in the sense that the total CO2 emissions, the greenhouse gas emissions, are falling, as the intention is, and that part of the work goes on. What doesn't work is: there is no incentive for the development of new technologies for green industry or clean technology, which we've talked about, which was also a target of the quota system. The prices are not high enough, and we get some absurd results from the low prices, among other things. We now see emissions rising in Germany because coal use has become cheaper than gas in energy production. So you use it, and you get a huge increase in emissions. We believe that the quota system needs to be tightened up. There's a work going on. The previous government backed up the work that the Commission would do to tighten up this system. We still have to give that support. We're interested in doing this in a good way. What we can be concerned about is what happens when the EU is faced with a system of allowances that has not worked, that has not given rise to new technologies, and we are experiencing a recovery in the economy that leads to an increase in emissions in Europe. I have to say that the regulatory instruments of the EU bureaucrats often provide some strange answers to what instruments are being used. In a situation where emissions are seen to increase due to economic recovery, a lot of strange things can happen. We have a fresh memory of the discussions we have had with the EU on our hot water heaters, where we have fallen to such a level of regulation that we can actually ban our electric hot water heaters. As a tool in energy efficiency improvement, we would then switch to something other than electric hot water heaters. It seems absurd, but there has actually been a major issue between Norway and the EU. We must ensure that there is a change and an adjustment of the quota system that leads to efficient energy markets. We need to ensure that greenhouse gas emissions become the overall target in the period up to 2030, that the other targets set are based on that objective, and that we get good energy markets that build up below climate targets. We have an interest in that, both as a gas supplier and as a renewable energy supplier. As far as capacity markets are concerned, we need to be clear. If Norwegian cables are not included in any capacity markets, and that threatens the profitability of those cables, we must be crystal clear that we do not build foreignables if it is not socio-economically profitable for Norway. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e846	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e849	Cooperation between Norway and the EU is highly valued and no international actor affects Norway more than the EU. The fact that three-quarters of our exports go to the EU absolutely underpins this. The financial crisis has been a success for the Norwegian business community, and the previous government's dialogue with the business community resulted in a number of important business action packages that helped to keep the wheels moving. The Stoltenberg government thus led an active industrial policy. In Norway, large parts of enterprises are small and medium-sized enterprises. For these, we have set tough targets on simplification – yes, we have made our own strategy, in fact, for small and medium-sized enterprises, where 5.4 billion. SEK in savings was provided by the Stoltenberg government and many measures were taken. It brings me to some councillor Helgesen's not mentioning in his presentation. The Stoltenberg government added 35 million to its state budget. for 2014, with a total liability of SEK 450 million. kr for the new EU COSME programme. This programme is offensive to small and medium-sized enterprises in the internal market and strengthens industrial competitiveness with third countries. The Programme shall also assist with financial instruments and contribute to an economic environment. I find it regrettable, at least, that the government is withdrawing Norway from such a measure, which is supposed to help open doors related to increased competitiveness, access to new markets and access to new capital. This is not in line with the Right’s rhetoric towards business, which often includes the need to contribute to increased competitiveness. The Minister of Industry's response to this cutback in the financial debate was that this programme did not work. But it's a strange answer to get when the program has actually not started yet. It is the start of 1 January 2014. It might have been interesting to hear what Helgesen has to say about that reason. It is also commendable that Helgesen was quick at the cheese customs lab, and wanted to go to the EU and tell us that there will be changes here. But it's probably a record bomb when you travel before you know if you have a majority. For the left has actually become the key cheese itself in this matter. They are now in the position to send the Council of State down again to Brussels with a tail between their legs with some embarrassing message that the government actually does not have cover for this view. I encourage the Council of State to deal with a large number of issues in the treatment of that kind of matter in the future, and not to continue as he has done now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e862	I want to thank the Council of State for what I think was a good explanation. I now perceive that we have a tone that is constructive, and I cannot say I share the impression that we have received an adaptation minister or a crippling attitude, as some representatives later believe. Rather, on the contrary, I believe that we have a government council that shows a broad and wise understanding of what is Norwegian interest. And then I have to say that I think it's a little strange, a little funny, when you hear some representatives talking about Norwegian interests and European interests being two completely different things. The representative Myrli believes that there is one Danish who protests against what we have been doing in Norway lately, but it was actually in July that the EU elected body in a resolution took a distance from the increased customs duties. However, if we go back a little in time, to the early and mid-1990s, one of the most central issues in the Norwegian European debate was how a link to the EU/EEA internal market would affect Norwegian employment. Because we're a little bit special up here, and well it is. Our work life is well regulated, we have a good protection law in the Working Environment Act, and we have good cooperation with partners. The question was then whether our way of organizing working life was threatened by the four freedoms. If you were to do a summary today, I think most people would agree that our way of doing it was not threatened. The European survey also concludes that looking at the 1994 main picture, Norway has been characterised by positive developments — investment, employment, unemployment and pay and working conditions. And not enough: despite the fact that many people believed that our demands on the working environment and workers' rights were stricter than EU and EEA law, it turned out to be errors in areas such as: equality and participation. In Norway, we have seen a large amount of labour immigration in recent years. Employment issues are a central part of the EEA Agreement, and I am pleased that the Council of State underlined an active policy for our interests in this area. Labour immigration is good, but it does not mean that it does not bring challenges. We see examples of social dumping, and there are some industries that point out -- it's a moment that we should be more aware of. At the same time, we must take account of the balance sheet. The measures against social dumping must be targeted, so that we get to the unprofessional actors, without making it more difficult for the real ones. The Government shall evaluate the measures taken against social dumping. We continue the public service system where we are concerned about strong supervision and, in particular, good functioning of tripartite cooperation. It's important, and I think that some people's attempts in the media to question whether this is not exactly constructive in the fight against social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e875	The Progress Party is pleased that the government is clear and clear about Norway's participation in Horizon 2020. Of course, for a tiny country in the world's inflated edge with an extremely international-oriented economy, it is to be attended. Norway’s participation in EU Horizon 2020 is clearly the most important international research policy cooperation for Norway – not only for access by Norwegian researchers to research environments in EU countries but also as an important door opener for Norwegian researchers to countries outside the European Union. In the next few years, Norwegian researchers and businesses will compete for 530 billion. EU research crowns. The importance of European research cooperation has never been more important for Norwegian research and thus for our common well-being and innovation. Nor has competition for research funds been tougher. To further enhance the quality of Norwegian research and higher education, international cooperation needs to be more closely integrated into the everyday lives of several Norwegian researchers. Norway is not part of EU research programmes to make money. With our more than 40,000 research years, we stand for less than 1 pst. the production of knowledge in the world. We are involved in accessing the best networks internationally, giving us access to knowledge and improved quality through competition in an international arena. Obtaining a higher proportion depends on the quality of research and the alignment of EU projects. Norwegian politicians and the Research Council should put pressure on the EU to ensure that areas in which Norway has world-class research environments – such as marine, maritime and offshore and petroleum-related areas – also have an even more central place in the EU system. Many countries invest more than twice as much annually in research as Norway, in the share of GDP, and have world-class educational institutions that train an annual surplus of highly educated, relevant labour. An increase in research investment, increased freedom for institutions through increased basic appropriations, robust entities and a committed, long-term policy will make a positive contribution, as set out below. e.g. the long-term plan and the 3 pst. target, mentioned explicitly in the research communication. We are therefore very pleased with the direction set by the government, with a clear focus on research quality, research efforts and internationalisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e890	I share Helgesen's four observations in his talks with the EU: that we have a cooperation that is valued, that it is important for both parties, that the EEA Agreement is robust and that there is a willingness on both sides to develop this important cooperation. Yes, I would say that we have a good and sound relationship with the European Union. State Council Helgesen said that no case has produced such strong reactions on the part of the EU as raising the ostetoll. Very familiar has never been threatened with any representations at formal level, and if the EU had had the opportunity and the desire to do so, I think it would have already been done. When the changes were implemented, the EU Agriculture Commissioner promised that the EU would turn all the stones to stop this. Now all the stones are turned around, and he found nothing. He found this to be in line with the agreement we have with the EU through the EEA Agreement and with the commitments we have under the WTO Agreement. To make it clear once and for all: Norwegian food can withstand competition on quality. That is not what the debate on ostetoll is about. The debate is about whether Norwegian farmers and the Norwegian food industry should be able to compete with, for example, the Norwegian food industry. French farmers and the Danish food industry. We know we have 70 pst. higher cost levels in this country, and we also know that the largest food producer in the Nordic region – with headquarters in Norway – is in competition every day. Yeah, 90 pst. of what they produce is in international competition. That's what this case is about. Therefore, last year's customs change was important to ensure increased income for farmers, and thus also ensure that we can still have Norwegian produced Norvegia, Jarlsberg, Synnove yellow cheese and similar food in our shelves. I have also noticed that the Council of State in public space has used the word protectionism. It might be more fitting in party speeches than in political agitation. I think most people are concerned that we should have effective, strategic and competent business clusters. If we are to have that, we also need to have framework conditions that allow these to develop, and therefore I think the wording of the Council of State is a little strange. Everyone in Norway, including the government parties, believes that agricultural import protection is necessary, but that it is precisely the newly introduced cheese duty that is protective. I think it's strange in such a respectable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e901	Governments have provided the Storting with information on important EU and EEA issues. I find it remarkable that, in its orientation, the Council of State did not inform the Government of how to follow up the Patient Rights Directive. The Patient Rights Directive is incorporated into Norwegian law from 1 January 2014. The Patient Rights Directive gives entitlement to hospital treatment in other EU countries covered by the social security system in the home country. The European Court of Justice has held that health services are covered by the rules on the free movement of services laid down in the EFTA Treaty. This is the foundation on which the Patient Rights Directive is based, and it will affect the healthcare system in both the EU and Norway. We do not yet know exactly how, but it is moving towards a European health market. It could increase the private hospital market in Norway. It could threaten our own right to organize, deliver and control health services as we want. It will increase the need to categorize and price different patient groups and treatments. The handler must secure the correct price for the service performed — a fair trade. The Patient Rights Directive is the result of a long process in the EU system, where drivers have not been the people or nations but the EU system. In Norway, the Patient Rights Directive is a good example of how the EEA Agreement works in Norwegian democracy. It has not been a popular requirement to become part of a common European health care system, and no political party has had this as a battle cause. Nevertheless, the directive has today been made Norwegian law. In the United Kingdom in June this year, the inclusion of the Patient Rights Directive was adopted without debate. Compared to current law, the Patient Rights Directive extends cross-border healthcare to include hospital treatment. This is a regulation of the European Court of Justice’s practice, which many thought was binding on Norway. So the European Court of Justice will go first, and then the elected national parliament will adopt the law's law-enforcement law. The Directive established that patients should be entitled to health care in all countries covered by the internal market in the EU. Patients should be entitled to reimbursement up to the cost of treatment in their home country. Member States may require prior authorisation for reimbursement of certain health services. If the waiting time in the home country is too long as it is, such pre-approval may be granted. But what is acceptable waiting time is uncertain. In principle, national legislation is subject to EU law in all areas covered by the decisions on the free movement of services. Today’s Norwegian interpretation of the Patient Rights Directive can therefore be corrected by decisions of the European Court of Justice in the future. The central party expects the government to deal with the Storting in an appropriate way to follow up the inclusion of the Patient Rights Directive into the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e914	I'm not going to dwell on the debate about government prerogatives and how to organize. First of all, I intend to assume that many of us in this Chamber regard European cooperation – EU cooperation and EEA cooperation – as an enormous opportunity room. In this way I agree with the Council of State in the basics of his statement in the Storting, and not least what is related to what kind of work and what kind of process we are going to have into these matters. First of all, it's important that we're early. Second, it's important that we ask ourselves what we're early on. I think, as a key point, that it is important that more people join the work here in the Stortinget, but not least that the trade ministries join. One example that I know well is how to draw justice policy issues into European policy cooperation. It's absolutely crucial, not just because it's important to fight back a lot of the international crime we see, but it's also important because we see that if you're early, we're not only going to be equivalent to legal acts, but we're going to be in a position to create something out of the cooperation that benefits Europe, but that also benefits us seas. The targeted use of EEA funds against, for example: I believe that much of the judicial cooperation that exists in the Schengen, EU, EEA intersection area is very important, which only needs to be strengthened in the coming years. So point one, you have to be early, we have to be more involved and we have to be proactive in many ways. As a point three, I would like to mention in this debate that we also need to act clearly, clearly and consistently. There is no concealment that the debate on customs legislation has reached the great heights of many kinds of groupings in the last few days. It's a very important national matter, no matter how you stand in the position. It has a major impact on the food industry and on primary industries. Regardless of how to conclude on this matter, it will be important in our approach to international cooperation that we act clearly. I believe that a prerequisite for achieving this is that we act so clearly that we do not risk having to go back on the objectives we have announced in Brussels later. In this way I agree with the representative Rotevatn, who said in his post that there has been a lot of noise around the matter. I think we have to prevent it from becoming'soft noise' in order to be as effective as possible. Then there is no doubt that it will be important from our side that we can maintain the customs policy that the red-green government left behind, and that at my discretion will be important to take care of much of the industry that we will live on in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e928	The EU and EEA debates are important for debating issues that are relevant in the interaction we have with that regime. I have a theme that may not have received the greatest focus in the presentation so far, but which is no less related to the cooperation that is. The autumn and winter have so far been marked by car combinations that have rolled from ditches to ditches along our road network – both north, south, west and all over. There has been a serious situation in which mostly non-resident vehicle combinations are responsible for the most serious cases, with tyres and equipment not relevant to Norwegian conditions. The blackmail police have called this a dead wagon train, and they say there are death traps. I share that view. It has formally exploded beyond the last autumn with new car combinations coming, often from EU countries and from the east. I am very pleased that the former Minister of Transport, Marit Arnstad, put in place the new regulations so that you could more fully satisfy Norwegian conditions. But there was a very demanding process with, among other things, The EU to get it in place. I am now recording that the new Minister for Transport calls for increased border control, mandatory smooth driving courses, etc. These are actions fully supported by the Centre Party, but I challenge the European Minister to explain whether the new measures proposed have clarified EU policies – or become such that they are primarily rhetorical and not practicable?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e939	In its Declaration of Accession, the Government has called for a stronger commitment to the pharmaceutical industry in Norway in terms of research and industrial development. A prerequisite for attracting research is that Norway has its patent systems in order. The EU introduced the so-called Paediatric Regulation in 2007 to ensure that children have access to safe and documented medicines in the same way as adults. This regulation, despite promises of rapid implementation in Norwegian law, was not implemented by the red-green government. The Paediatric Regulation contains both requirements and incentives to ensure better treatment provision for children in the future. While requiring medical firms to conduct studies in children, the conduct of such studies triggers an intuition of six months of extended patent time – this being because such studies are cost-intensive and commercial performance is limited. Norway’s cooperation with the EU in the field of medicinal products is well established and necessary to ensure Norwegian patients have access to new and innovative medicinal products. Norway is expected to participate in and contribute to research and development in the field of medicinal products, and Norway as a national State is responsible for stimulating the necessary development of medicinal products. National competence networks for medicinal products for paediatric use have developed a national strategy for clinical studies, medicinal products and children. The strategy clarifies that clinical research is an important element of a continuous improvement in the quality of healthcare, pointing out that both single patients, academic medicine and communities are served by clinical testing in Norwegian hospitals and Norwegian children’s departments. Through participation in clinical studies, and due to the common EU procedures for the authorisation of medicinal products, we have already enjoyed the regulation in Norway, despite delayed implementation. However, firms that develop these medicinal products do not receive their legitimate profit in terms of extended patent time. The delay thus creates major competitive disadvantages for Norwegian research activities and gives the impression of a lack of respect for the importance of intellectual property rights for innovation and industrial development. Such conditions affect the attractiveness of Norway as a home country for research and business activities and could lead to fewer clinical studies. This, in turn, prevents patients and health businesses from having early access to innovative treatment and knowledge of medicines for children. This is not related to Stortinget’s wish to invest in paediatric research and the establishment of the paediatric network in 2009. I am pleased to meet with the prompt implementation of the regulation in line with the State Council of Helgesen's statement in Stortinget. I note that the Left gave its support to such an implementation earlier in the debate. Pediatric confusion is a long-awaited issue of Norwegian pharmaceutical research and industry, and is an example of the fact that red-green inflexibility and inaction in relations with the EU have weakened Norwegian nutrition development. I am pleased to note that the Right-Fremskritsparte government has played a more active role towards the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e954	I would also like to thank the State Council of Vidar Helgesen for a good and thorough presentation on important EU and EEA issues. I also commend the Council of State for the signals that the government wants to change the customs regime in the case of cheese. With regard to free trade agreements, I am somewhat concerned that the EU and the United States are now discussing a free trade agreement. There are opportunities, but there are also major challenges for Norwegian business if the EU has better access to the US market, but not Norway and, where appropriate, other EFTA/EEA countries. I would remind you that the Progress Party has previously called for Norway to initiate its own free trade agreement between the United States and Norway, without being heard. Now the EU has put us in the lead. It's a shame previous governments haven't prioritised this. That is why I hope that the new government will now intensify work on more and better free trade agreements with other countries, while waiting for what is happening to the free trade negotiations between the EU and the United States, and while waiting for China. In this context, I would like to recall Norway and the EFTA Free Trade Agreement with Colombia. This was signed in 2008, i.e. for approx. five years ago. Here we were at the forefront of e.g. The United States and the EU. But it is still not sent for ratification here in Stortinget. Meanwhile, the United States has concluded a free trade agreement with Colombia, and the Congress has approved it. The European Union has done the same. This is unfortunate for Norwegian industry and Norwegian consumers. I expect and hope that the new government will address this as soon as possible. I would otherwise like to add that I am pleased that EFTA has come a long way in the free trade negotiations with India – 12th round is probably now. There are also free trade negotiations between the EU and India. I hope that we, EFTA, will agree here before the EU, so that Norwegian business can have a competitive advantage. I have also understood that free trade negotiations with Indonesia have gone a long way. The same applies to Vietnam and not least to the RuBeKa countries, Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan. Taking a look at the ongoing free trade negotiations around the world, it is undoubtedly a race, a struggle to get into the markets of other countries first. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of Norway fulfilling its obligations under the EEA Agreement legislation. In particular, the EFTA Surveillance Authority now brought an action in November against Norway on air quality, because Norway has not fulfilled its obligations under the Air Quality Directive. This is especially true of the big cities, including our hometown Drammen, President. I hope this is something the new government is addressing, so that there is better air quality in the big cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e969	European cooperation is very important in many areas. Historically, cooperation was created to ensure peace and stability on the continent where both world wars originated. It is, of course, difficult to say what Europe, or for that matter the world, would look like today if this cooperation had not come into place. Nevertheless, we can see that the very positive developments we have seen in Europe since World War II are closely linked to the cooperation that has shaped our continent. Despite small and sometimes very big challenges, nations have also kept together and both expanded and deepened their cooperation. The European project has evolved over time. The aim is no longer primarily to ensure peace, but cooperation is now driven by the idea that, in a globalised world, European states stand together more strongly than individually. This is what we see in a great many areas, not least in education, research and innovation. In today's globalised world, in principle, all research and knowledge development is based on international cooperation and the publication of results. This is something that Norwegian research communities reap great benefits, not least when new ideas and results are exchanged and tested against each other. In this perspective, it is important that Norway has a clear international ambition for its research effort. The EU has the largest research cooperation in the world, and the research results to which Norway and Norwegian researchers are thus given access have an estimated value of about 10 %. the double of the total Norwegian research budget. This underlines that Norwegian researchers and research communities have more to gain from increased participation in EU research programmes. Therefore, it is very gratifying that Norway aims to participate in the new Horizon 2020 Framework Programme from next year. Knowing the importance of cross-border sharing of knowledge and experience, it is also very positive that Norway should participate in Erasmus+. This education and youth programme enables educational institutions, students, apprentices, students and teachers to participate in cooperation projects and exchanges throughout the EEA territory. It is important for each participant and to enhance the quality and attractiveness of the Norwegian education system as a whole. In a debate that at times is mostly about cheese and mail, it may be a good thing that we sometimes remember everything that cooperation with Europe gives us. In order to realise the knowledge society, cooperation with the EU needs to be further strengthened. I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus in this Chamber on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e986	This has so far been a broad debate that has affected many aspects of our relationship with the EU, and in particular the relationship with the world outside the EU, not least the external border of Schengen and the desperate way in which some refugees try to get across the Mediterranean and into Europe. The representative Norheim of the Progressive Party, and also others, has used force on the pulpit to argue in principle against protectionism. In internal debates in Norway, the impression is often that Norway is a kind of specific case when we have a strong customs protection related to Norwegian food production. The fact is the opposite. We would have been a special case if we had not had a very strong customs protection for food production. The EU has a customs protection system that provides very effective protection for its own food production and food industry. It is particularly important for the EU to protect its own production against competition from, inter alia, U.S.A. and Brazil. The Minister for Europe confirmed by his change of line that the introduction of the ostetoll has been a legitimate act of the Red-Green Government. The transition from the krona to the percentage duty is fully in line with the WTO agreement. From the Norwegian side, we're doing what we're entitled to, under international agreements. Food production and food industries in Norway contribute to nearly 90 000 jobs across the country. If that industry is to develop further, it must actually have stable and good framework conditions. In fact, with the signals that the government has given to the EU in this matter, they have put into play a very central element in agriculture and the food industry's framework conditions. It creates unforeseeability and uncertainty — the opposite of the predictability on which any large continental industry depends. I am also pleased that the Minister for Fisheries was here today. But the Minister of Fisheries came today with just the half-wheated sages that we so often hear when an attempt to set up two important district industries against each other. There have been no formal steps; there has been no formal link between fish and agriculture by the EU. Instead of sending the specialist minister here with that kind of finer, I think it is time for the government to act on the responsibility it has received, namely to protect Norwegian interests. This is not done by running to Brussels in order to maximise the EU's level of activity in key Norwegian food issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e999	It is good to be in the Chamber and follow a debate as important as this – a debate on Norway’s relationship with its closest neighbours, a debate on Norway’s relationship with its best friends, and a debate on Norway’s relationship with its main trading partners. I also find it interesting to register the different starting points that you take, and the entrances to the debate. There is no doubt that the views of the previous and this government on the relationship of the nation with the EU are very different. This is not just to be read by the fact that this government has its own state council with the EU as its responsibility; it is equally clear from what the former Minister of Industry, Trond Giske, said that now we could forget about the EU, now it was China that was involved – we had to look at China. It can be read from the fact that former Minister of Agriculture and Food Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum believed that changes to the customs regime were our way of showing that we stood up to the EU. And it's probably not an event that inspires to run theatre, but maybe even stand-up. We had a fisheries minister in the previous period who stood in this room and said that she had not heard any critical voices in Brussels when Norway changed the customs regime. When the representatives of the Central Party push the districts forward in this debate, I think it is predictable in view of their view of the European Union, but unfortunately it is both misunderstood and deeply regrettable. It bears witness to a total lack of market understanding. When we say that the EU is one of our main trading partners, politicians must also take on board that we need to have what is called market understanding. The seafood industry lives in very large parts of what we call District Norway, where a lot of people live, work and come from. The previous government sent out a big message about seafood that got a big connection in this hall. That message had a vision that Norway would become the world’s leading maritime nation, and that version is not, in a sense, worth an acid herring if we do not have the ability to deal with our trading partners in the EU and the EU as a market. Seafood industries are constantly working to increase market understanding among their operators. Then you work in two fields – one is that you work to understand how the market works, what the market wants, and the other is that you work with how you communicate with your trading partners. In fact, I believe this understanding that the nation of Norway would have been well-deserved to integrate also with the big business representatives, when we think about our relationship with the market – how we communicate with an important trading partner and important cooperation partners such as the EU. It's the central element of such a debate – not if you're a protectionist, not what kind of regime you have. How we communicate our needs is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1010	It is interesting to take part in this debate on the 19th anniversary of no EU membership. In the debate, the Minister for Fisheries has confirmed in reply that there has not been a formal link between the percentage duty and the availability of Norwegian fish on the European market from the EU side. However, how does it suggest such a connection, but it is important that government councils also stick to facts rather than to their own fondness? I want to go back to sovereignty transfer. Like the representative Simensen, I am pleased that the Council of State Helgesen sees that the question of participation in independent EU agency and supervision raises fundamental questions in relation to the Constitution. The majority of the population, who, I believe, really want EU membership, argue that the individual decisions are insignificant, but in Section 26 of the Constitution there is no opening to give up sovereignty in specific areas. Even professor of European law Fredrik Sejersted, who has had an open approach, says that it would be safer, better and more honest to use § 93. Jusprofessor Mads Andenæs criticises the Stortinget and takes up the issue in Today's Business, and The Stortinget is widely criticised for the practice of using § 26 in matters of sovereignty transfer where § 93 should have our benefit. ‘A practice based on people sticking their heads in the sand is not particularly practical. It says about respect for constitutional provisions.’.» This pronounced jusprofessor Eivind Smith on what he sees as the Storting’s “responsive attitude” to Grundlova when we transfer sovereignty to EU and EEA bodies by simple plurality. First amanunensis Holmøyvik at the University of Bergen shouts warning. The size has changed the Constitution without any formal handling, by taking steps to transfer image from Norway to body in the EU – without complying with the strict requirements of the Constitution to do so, he says. I would like to ask the Presidency to initiate a meeting with all the party groups in Stortinget where we are discussing how the National Assembly will deal with such issues during this four-year period, and it should be done before the Paediatric Regulation comes to Stortinget. We need a new course to secure Norwegian sovereignty, self-determination and self-determination. That's what Norway agreed to on this day 19 years ago. Norway refused to impose an EU approach in violation of the Norwegian people's will. This entry has not expired. There is still a large majority in the Norwegian people who say no to EU membership. This must be taken into consideration by both government councils and by bigots. It's also important that we stick to the facts. We need a fact-based approach to whether it relates to percentage duties, fishing interests or the waiver of sovereignty in the light of the Constitution and other issues that arise. I look forward to the presidency following up such a call, and that we will have a meeting and a discussion on this important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1028	The Labour Party representative Svein Roald Hansen is right when he considers that the EEA Agreement is a central crossroads for Norway and that the EEA Agreement is very important for Norway. There are many people in this room who have spoken today. Today, the Solberg Government has been praised for having put in place an EU Minister. It is very good for Norway that we have received. I am more surprised when I hear today the fear of Liv Signe Navarsete about how agriculture and the districts will now survive. I myself come from the ‘districts’ and am fully convinced that an active European policy will benefit all of Norway – including the districts. We see that the policies that have been implemented for agriculture have resulted in a very large number of uses being lost in rural areas. We have to do something about that. We also see that TINE and the Q-Meierien rates abroad. TINE exports Norwegian subsidised cheese for more than half a billion dollars a year, and now they establish factories abroad to gain access to foreign markets, precisely because of Norwegian customs barriers and obstacles to Norwegian exports of agricultural products against, among others. EU. We need import protection, and we need a well-functioning commodity compensation system, a so-called ROK system, as compensation for the high commodity costs of the Norwegian food industry. But it is important for total trade that we have a well-functioning customs protection, but not higher than necessary. It is also stated in the Government Declaration that we must reduce customs protection. That there has been as much noise as some people express here today, surprises me, and it surprises me that some people are surprised that the government is actually taking action and following up the government statement. So it is not that the Council of State has engaged in Europe, as I have understood, but has given good signals as to what we can expect from Norwegian policy in the future. We have problems selling many Norwegian raw materials, both reindeer products and other agricultural products. The Minister for Fisheries also pointed out that processed fishery and farming products were demanding to be sold in Europe. It testifies that it is important that we have a functioning customs protection in total and not higher than necessary. Norwegian agriculture needs to be much more profitable in the time to come, so that we do not need to have a higher level of customs protection and a more expensive commodity compensation system than necessary. To imagine an agriculture without customs protection is very far away, and it is just as the Centre Party points out, that all countries have some form of protection of their own food production. We should also have that here in Norway. But having an active policy – an active European policy and an active trade policy – will help secure Norwegian jobs and the Norwegian farmer in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1043	This I think has been and is a good debate, with many participants and a wide range of topics. Not least, many people have raised issues that they work with in their professional committees. I am pleased that the European Minister has a desire for more involvement and participation, which he has received today, at least in terms of a more active European policy. But there are many foreign ministers before him, from many parties, who have wanted it for the last 20 years. Nevertheless, I wish him every success on that road – there are many who are behind him in this. I'm also pleased with the desire to involve Stortinget more, that we get a broader debate, more commitment here. It's very good, but it's still unclear to me what it means when we're going to concreteize. For now we are in a situation where we have a minority government, and unlike many others in the field of foreign policy, there are many political conflicts, as we have heard here today, between the various parties in the Great Britain, even internally in the various parties in the Great Britain. Someone's split up. It demands how policy and Norwegian positions are made. What is the content of the policy? Should the government take its decisions before or after wholesale treatment? In that case, what kind of treatment? Is this to be included in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the Committee on European Affairs, or to involve the committees in a way that is different from that with which we have known? Several have pointed out that, over time, domestic policy has moved into Europe and become part of European policy, or foreign policy, if it is to be called it. But what does that mean? What should be the consequences? Can we expect changes in how the government anchors its decisions in the future? In my opinion, nothing has become clearer in the course of the debate in any other way than that there are several representatives who have addressed something of the same nature. This applies to the representative Navarsete at the latest, but also to Storberget and others. I want us to be forward here. This debate has shown, I would say, that one has become more mature to reflect on how the Storting should be involved in a wide range of EU issues. This applies regardless of whether you are in favour of or against the EU, the view of membership, etc. – which may have been the Navarsete’s point, that Norway has said no to the EU. It is quite simply how to ensure that the government has the back coverage of the Stortinget that it wants and that it must have in matters that deal with what has traditionally been foreign policy. We have challenges here, and I ask that both the Storing and the Government take it seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1056	European Minister Helgesen said in his statement: ‘No international actor affects Norway more than the EU. Norwegian foreign policy is beginning in Europe, but it is also doing more and more of Norwegian domestic policy.’ I understand the whole of the presentation of the Council of States so that this influence is good and wanted by the Right Party government. This is clarifying and politically honest. I understand the presentation by the State Council of Helgesen so that the government now wants greater organisation of EU policies and greater influence from EU bodies. I want the Council of State to assess what I have now said, whether it is comprehensive. It depends, however, on the Christian People's Party and the Left agreeing to such an understanding – collectively or individually. These are the great lines that the Left and Christian People's Party must clarify in this debate. I didn't get that preparation. I haven't heard what I want, a clarification of whether the Left and Christian People's Party agrees with such a development by the government. Otherwise, I would say that the representative Tybring-Gjedde had an interesting introduction to his post. The representative is a member of the strength and coherence of the national state, but is also in favour of competition – therefore no to EU membership, yes to the EEA, because the EEA promotes consumer perspective, as the representative said. It's interesting as an important and fundamental reason for its position. Three comments – first the nation state: the nation state is now being cleansed because globalisation does not have popular policy instruments to correct the weakness of globalisation. The centre party is on a historical tradition for the nation state. Point 2, competition: competition does not take place in practice without the organisation of such competition by the States. In a deeper sense, competition is a state product. Without State intervention in the market, you will receive monopoly and lack of competition. And finally, the consumer perspective: Yes, the consumer perspective is important, but both for a country and for a family, the production perspective is more important, because first you have to earn, and then you have to use. The problem with the EEA Agreement is that you get cheap imports and you get difficult conditions in production. Therefore, consumption is greater than production. Over time, a country cannot live on such a priority. Therefore, the production perspective is, after all, the most important. The EEA Agreement is increasingly in the way of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1074	On the right, I would like to thank you for the good debate we have had here today. It has gathered a lot of participation from the Stortinget, and I think that is a good promise. I note that there is a broad consensus that a good relationship with Europe is important to us and that there is a broad consensus on the 19-year-old EEA Agreement. I also note that in this Chamber there are overall high ambitions for Norway in Europe. The government, the Storting, the business community, the social partners and the other organisations have to make sure to set up the team work that the government council Helgesen invites to, and has invited to, today, and we also need to ensure that more information and knowledge reaches its schools and educational institutions. The people should also note that the country has received a government that takes European policy seriously. The government has the ambition to simplify and improve people's everyday lives. Participation in Horizon 2020 and Erasmus+ will make it easier to study and research. Through cooperation and closer cooperation in Schengen and international police cooperation, we will make it easier and safer to strengthen the security of Norwegian citizens. By freer trade, we will have a good selection in the store shelves that do not go at the expense of innovative Norwegian agriculture and the food industry. Free trade must also apply to EU countries. Our government must work to ensure that the EU too opens up more. It is important that Norwegian enterprises have market access for their goods and services and that the new EU-US trade regime harmonises with the conditions of the EFTA countries with the EU-US. Our European commitment must also be more than a complaint when a process in which we have not actively participated is opposed. It must be about fighting for the things that are worth fighting for, in areas where, as a nation, we have the competence and the ability to make a difference. We are being listened to in matters where we have specifically asked for competence, and we need to be more good at using it. The EU is often a target when something goes wrong in Europe. At home, it is the left and the centre parties that are most often aimed at the EU. In many EU countries, the outer right is doing so. It is important to remember that EU policy is the result of what 28 Member States have agreed on – 28 Member States with Heads of Government, EU Commissioners and EU parliamentarians in all the colours of the rainbow, not to talk about embedded contradictions, as the representative Myrli spoke about. The crisis in individual countries is often rooted in national structural conditions. Similarly, individual countries themselves have the primary responsibility for resuming, as we have seen several countries doing. The EU contributes to this, and the EU is with its mistakes and shortcomings, as I see it, perhaps the only solution to Europe's common challenges. The EU has been called a peace project. It could also be called the solidarity project.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1090	A good debate has raised some individual questions, and I would like to come back to some of them. Firstly, it has been noted that the government does not contribute to the COSME programme for small and medium-sized enterprises. What is there is the fact that the evaluation of COSME's predecessors showed quite significant weaknesses. We therefore wanted to take a closer look. It lies in the program dynamics that there is an opportunity if we want to, to join later on. Let me then clarify a question that has been raised around the Postal Directive and an alleged warning from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' Early Alerts Group. This is a forum of party representatives. These party representatives deliver recordings, and a list of inputs from these parties has been prepared, without the list being dealt with in that group. There have been critical comments in the submissions of the parties to draw the reservation for the third postal directive, but this is a party post that represents a very well-known view on a matter that has been debated for many years. So the question about the agencies. What the government did in the matter of Norwegian participation in Acer, the Energy Agency, and financial supervision was requested. I raised these issues in the EEA Council with a strong wish that the EU now had to come back to Norway with a clarification. We have recorded proposals for a model that takes account of the Constitution and the Norwegian wish for participation. I also raised the question of BEREC in the field of telecommunications, which is also an important body, where we want to participate. The question of agencies and supervision has been raised from a number of points of principle, namely that it may run counter to the Basic Law and also to the typilar logic of the EEA Agreement. These are important questions. In the case of limited sovereignty repudiation, there is safe constitutional practice for it to be manageable. Therefore, if there is a more radical waiver of sovereignty, we must try to find solutions, adaptations, in our negotiations with the European Union to ensure that we respect the Constitution at the same time as we join in where we want to be. Overall, I think that the debate has shown a number of issues, both in principle and in matters of policy, which show the breadth of our integration in Europe. More debate on these issues is important. That's what the government is adding up to. Among other things, I have taken the initiative that in the future, before each EEA Council meeting, with a call in good time, we will be holding meetings in the European Committee of the United Kingdom. It was some of the intention when the European Committee was set up, and that's an intention we want to pick up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1105	It seems there's an obvious misunderstanding here somewhere. The representative Arnstad spoke as if the Progress Party almost defends protectionism from the EU against other parts of the world, i.e. developing countries, or that we defend it when the United States uses protectionist measures. I can solve that: protectionism is the wrong answer no matter what the question is. One of the things about the EU that the Progress Party and I like less is a protectionist agricultural policy. The fact that we have the debate on the ostetoll here today is really interesting. Our starting point is that Norwegian national interests are more than Norvegia and Jarlsberg. When you build a wall of cheese and use it like the shield with which you have to mark yourself towards the EU, I want to repeat what I said in my first post, that you have to choose your fights and take the important fights, and then I think to the extent that this is a wrong fight to take in addition. I understand that other countries in Europe are becoming annoyed when the world's richest countries are going to make their mark in this way and use Norvegia and Jarlsberg for this. It gets too small, and it gets too introverted. Free trade and the market economy have raised millions of people out of poverty. It's just admitting. Therefore, it is also the view of the Progress Party that we should work to promote more free trade and more market economy, less introversion and less protectionism. That is why I actually want to pay tribute to the state council of Helgesen and the government to take this as quickly as it has been done, and also to have consulted the Stortinget and included it in the decision. I think it is very good to take this into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1116	Meetings of the European Committee before the government travels to Brussels for meetings of the EEA Committee are not a government that ‘wants to pick up again’. This is something we've been doing for many, many years, and it's in that forum that the government has to decide whether it has back coverage in the Stortinget to go to Brussels and take new legislation into the EEA Agreement. Here I think the Council of State is a little misinformed, if he thinks it's establishing a new practice. This debate has had an important topic, and it is to be in the early stages of the EU decision-making process in order to better influence and care for Norwegian interests. It's the broad support for, as it's always been. It's a teamwork, and we in Stortinget are now also in the process of getting up a little bit more quickly to do our part of the job, which is something that many people have been involved in. But it remains to be seen how the government will fill these intentions with realities. There are several challenges in what we have to solve jointly, especially when the Storting is to be involved at an early stage, as the representative Marianne Aasen pointed out. However, as this debate has also shown, the desire to do so contrasts with the reason for the announced reversal of the cheese case, namely that it has had a negative impact on the cooperation climate. There is a big question in the message that we are going to go to Brussels and work for more adjustments – and that is quite right, we are going to do so where necessary. Kristian Norheim said in his speech that the Progress Party would change the cheese case because they are opposed to protectionism. That's an honest point of view. But that's not the government's reason. The government’s justification is the co-operation climate in relation to the EU. At the same time, the Council of State says that we should take advantage of the full scope of the agreement. However, it involves negotiations in order to make adjustments. We must not believe anything but that it will also be able to create negative vibrations in the cooperative climate. We need to go down and have a derogation from a bank deposit guarantee of DKK 800,000, down to a Europe where there are major social problems and high unemployment. Then we come from Norway and say that the Norwegians have so much money in the bank that 800,000 kroner is far too little to be sure. You can't see that it's in a certain contrast to reality out there, and that it can cause some irritation that we're always going to come and have certain exceptions. So the Council of State said that the EEA obligations under Article 19, inter alia: is to reduce customs duties. That's wrong. There's not a word about customs. We must work towards a gradual liberalisation of agricultural policy. We have. Just look at the numbers: the import figures are much larger than the export figures. The EU has nothing to complain about in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1129	I take the floor again because the representative Lundteg was up and swinging to the large rhetorical heights and demanded answers on whether the Left and Christian People's Party supports more integration in Europe. I can only talk for the left hand side. If the representative Lundtegen had listened to my main post today, he would have received a confirmatory answer to that. I would like to quote from what I said: ‘Left is fundamentally positive to the EU as an arena for economic and political cooperation. [[...]] Stronger integration with the EU will be positive for Norwegian and European businesses, trade and development.’ Or I haven't cooked up. It's a quote from the Left Party program, which I'm thinking is that the representative Lundtigen has also read. That being said, it is not that everything coming from the EU is necessarily neither wise nor sensible, nor should it become Norwegian policy, and the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement is there in order to be used. When it comes to big, fundamental and important questions, we in the Left are dependent on using that right of reservation. For example, we were and are there in questions about the Data Storage Directive. But what I believe in this debate in the first place is that there is a broad consensus in this Chamber on the main lines of Norwegian European policy, as it has been for a long time. Some important and interesting discussions will be taken up, including: by the representative of Navarsete, in the case of renunciation from sovereignty and the relationship with Grundlova § 93. It's an important discussion. At the same time, I don't think we're going to believe that there is someone in this room who is very much in order to renounce sovereignty, and others aren't. The previous red-green government did some sensible things. One of the things they did was order a European report that told a lot about what has happened in Norway since the day 19 years ago when we said no to Norwegian EU membership. It's just one day I don't think very well. I was only seven years old that time and so I don't have a very strong memory any way in that day – it might as well. But what I want to say is that in this European development, since the EEA agreement was concluded, this will have given sovereignty 287 times in its entirety. 265 of those decisions have been co-ordinated. I believe that Norway is a good place, and that shows the extent and safety of European policy in the country's national assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1145	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. If we summarise the 19 years of operation of the EEA Agreement, we can see that it has contributed to stability and economic growth for Norway. Yes, over the almost 20 years of the EEA Agreement, Norwegian continental economy has grown by 3 pst. annual. If we compare it to the OECD region, there's a growth there of 2.2 pst. In Norway, the share of the labour force has grown significantly. The same thing is true of the employment rate. The unemployment rate has decreased during the period – yes, it has actually been more than halved since we entered into this agreement. So very much has been positive. But I also think it is important to take some important debates. I would particularly like to thank Liv Signe Navarsete, who mentions what goes on at Grundlova § 93 and renunciation from sovereignty. In our broadcast, as I said, the Christian People's Party big group a letter to the presidency asking questions about the practice we've had – a practice that all parties have been in, but that we think there's reason to look at. If we see, among other things: to our neighbouring country Denmark, we are aware that they have had a much more consistent use of a clause corresponding to our § 93. With the challenge that Navarsete has given here today, and that Marianne Aasen has also followed up, I look forward to the further debate around it. Then there has been one thing that has particularly influenced the debate, and that is customs matters. Quite correctly, the Council of State replied that the second paragraph of Article 19 stated that one should ‘aim at gradually liberalising trade in agricultural products’. But it also states in the same article, paragraph 4, that ‘this shall be done on a mutually beneficial basis’. I think there are a number of people who have just shown the EU's practice in this area, and Norway is doing very well if we compare the practices of the EU. I think this debate has revealed that there are no formal obstacles to the change made by the red-green government at the customs rate, either with the EEA Agreement or with the WTO Agreement. The Council of State has also confirmed that, in dialogue with the EU, he has made it clear that the decision of the Grand Duchy is the basis for what is happening in this matter, and it will be handled by the European Union. So it is the responsibility of Stortingen how we conclude on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1158	Some of the problems with the debate in the Norwegian Grand Prix are that it is too unclear as to what the various parties stand for. I understood the State Council of Vidar Helgesen so that his introduction meant that one from the time the government says so would facilitate an increased alignment with the priorities of the European Union and with the decisions of the European Union institutions. When I got no answer to that, I interpret it so that I was right in my assessment, that that's what the government is adding up to. After the information provided by the representative Rotevatn from the Left, the votes of the Left are sufficient for a majority of that position. The representative of Hareide chose not to comment on the question. There has been a lot of talk about consumer perspective. It is obvious that the freest trade with a country such as Norway, with a high level of pay and costs, for those who work in industries with little or no competition and therefore a high level of income is very beneficial. It's very beneficial, because you have high incomes and low prices on it a buyer. However, for those people in Norway who live under this competition – who are perceived to be increasingly unfair, because they are involved in pushing down pay and working conditions, or prices of products – free trade is perceived differently. It's now a perspective. But the most central perspective is that, like competition more and more, it weakens the productive life of Norway, the production of goods and services, so that there is a fundamental imbalance between what we consume and what we produce. It is also a fundamental problem within the EU that production is not sufficient to maintain the value creation needed to ensure the welfare society. This point needs to be further discussed, because very many of Norway’s inhabitants feel very strongly whether they are employees, maritime operators or value-conservative managers. It is a central issue, which is essential to bring about an increasingly international competitive situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1175	The representative, Liv Signe Navarsete, has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1178	In terms of ostetolls, which have our theme in the hall today, I thought the representative Hareide had a quite precise summary of it. It is important to establish that there are no formal barriers that require us to amend that decision. However, in addition to the EEA Agreement, the representative Hareide gave credit for everything that has gone well in Norway for the last 19 years. But if there is a connection to the EU's internal market that is key to Norway's success, why not Europe as a whole, which has even greater doses of integration and adaptation – an even greater economic success? What distinguishes Norway from the rest of Europe is that we are not a member of the EU, and ergo has another policy that is much more driven from this room. Stronger adaptation to the EU could not possibly direct medicine for continued growth in both business and well-being in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1187	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1201	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1217	I will choose to take a positive approach in this debate. Much of the discussion in the United Kingdom is often marked by party political disagreements and divisions — often there is no sense of bringing a case forward. First of all, I would like to welcome the Minister of Industry to the interpellation debate in Stortinget. I am very pleased that it is this kind of theme that has been raised as one of the first debate themes of interpellation in this Greatness. When I choose to take a positive starting point, it is primarily because I believe that a negative debate around this – the development of the Inland, the development of the two major states of Hedmark and Uppland – really grows very little of it. This is a negative political debate. There is also very little to describe the situation in the Inland with only negative signs, because this is going to be wrong. It's also a debate technique that makes it impossible to get an eye on all the opportunities you have to bring business, activity, skills and growth into an area of the country that needs more of it. Let me stay a little bit with some of the challenges that the domestic states are facing, and which I think deserve a national focus. We see a situation -- it's been like this over time -- where the growth is too low. We see a situation in which people have too little desire for population growth, even though in many of the municipalities there are now positive developments. We see a challenge when it comes to how competence is structured and how good competence is, even though it is in several areas, to which I am going to come back to, that we actually feel that we have competences that are in the best class – and also in the national front. We also see that we have a situation of how much of what will form the basis for growth is vulnerable – mainly because we face a significant challenge against maintaining skills, and we face a challenge against the level of costs established in Norway. This may first and foremost be proven by some of the closures we have had of very good operations in the Inland. I mention, for example, the pharmaceutical activities of Nycomed Pharma in Elverum, which is a good example of the fact that the cost level does not make it profitable to run a production line that has been very good – in the Inland and in Norway – and that in this way finds other available surplus capacity in the group’s international facilities, especially in Germany and Poland. This requires that we are totally dependent on having an overall approach to the challenges we now see rising in the Inland. I am in favour of the opportunities we have in the interior, mainly because we have a competence in many key key areas that lie in the national front – as I said before – but also because we see that the resource base for creating growth is absolutely present. It brings me to what I think makes this issue a national issue, because we need alternatives to growth and alternatives to activities in the shadow of a strong oil economy. We need alternatives for the future when, with all probability, we will see a reduction in oil-rich activity. Then we need more legs to stand on as a nation. There is a resource base for agriculture and forestry in these two coun tries – also in other coun tries, but especially in these two coun tries – which is really just waiting to be harvested. It's a resource base that you can't say you have in many other areas and in many other types of activities, but that's an obvious competitive advantage for us. It's a national challenge to promise this, not only because we need other legs economically, but it's a national challenge because it represents a kind of economy that the nations are screaming for, and that Norway should also cry out for: a renewable economy, the development of renewable energy, the development of bioeconomy – that can help us not only get growth, more prosperity, more living and more working for, but that we get growth and wealth that are also green, and that helps us meet the demanding climate goals that we've set ourselves, and that also puts the world around us. Making use of land and forest to a much greater extent than we do today contributes to a positive outcome in the climate economy. We bind CO2 in a much more efficient way by, among other things. to get a forestry that makes it possible for us to operate more efficiently, creating, for example: At the same time, renewable energy provides the basis for a growing forest that is healthy and capable of doing its good — including rooting. In such a perspective, I mean the initiative that, among other things, The government of Stoltenberg took, was very important. It manifested itself very clearly by reducing a sample that would look at these challenges. It is certainly important that we now get a comprehensive and broad national approach to how we can grasp these industries at a different rate and scale than we have historically done. The time has come. This requires that we not only have political strategy in parties and political meetings, but that we have to bring it into the government apparatus and into the Stortinget. That's the background for the interpolation. I'm going to spend most of my time in agriculture and forestry. I might come back to some other relationships as well. We see that we are facing significant challenges in order to benefit from agriculture and forestry to a greater extent than we do today. I don't think this is an easy-to-find march, and I think we should be careful to say that it's the political constellation that might be responsible for not developing this to a greater extent than you've done today. I think this is clearly conditional on both the international economy and how we have established the Norwegian economy with a very strong dependence on oil. But we see a significant challenge in being able to increase production and reap more from both soil and forest. There are many relevant policy issues to which I believe there should be an overall approach. The debate we just left brought only one element into this: what kind of customs protection we have. For spring, we will have challenges as to what kind of budget support we will provide, among other things. to agriculture through the agricultural agreement, and of course – as we are dealing with in the budgets that are coming – it is very important that we focus research and innovation efforts on these areas. It's important that we don't cut in the areas where we see that we have the opportunity to grow. For example, in the case of wood-based innovation – which when we take advantage of the forest for energy creation, energy chips and whatever it may be – we see that we face many small and big issues that, in total, mean a lot to the domestic investment. That's the background for interpellering. I know that there will be speakers after me who are going to raise other questions as well. The time doesn't go by for me to go through everybody, but I want the new government to make this part of the country a strategic area and have a national approach to it. In this way I will promise that at least from our party and from our benches you will be met with great goodwill in order to develop these areas further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1252	First of all, thank you for your warm greeting from the interpellant. One of the most important tasks of the Right-wing Party Government is to facilitate increased economic development across the country. We will provide better framework conditions for business and strengthen the competitiveness of businesses in mainland Norway. Our overall industrial policy will benefit all parts of Norway, including the domestic states. The additional proposal for the State budget clearly shows that the government has started work from the first day. As a new Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, it is important for me to get to know the business community in Norway. That's why I'm going to spend months in the future doing a listening tour to regions all over the country. The first visit to the region was last week, and the trip just went to the interior. As the interpellant knows, strong innovative environments exist in the Inland. I have met actors in two of these environments: Hedmark Knowledge Park at Hamar and the cluster environment at Raufoss. The creative power and the possibilities that lie here and elsewhere in the Inland, we're going to build on. At the same time, I am aware that there are considerable differences between the regions and the municipalities in the region. The hinterland is rich in large forest resources. About 40 pst. the harvesting of Norwegian forests takes place here, and forest resources have formed the basis for a large forest and wood-based industry. Developments in the sector have, however, been negative in recent years, including the following: has resulted in the closure of several large wood processing plants. The inter-pellant believes that the Stoltenberg II Government had a ‘strong commitment to the development of the domestic states’. That's definitely true. However, it has not helped reverse the negative development we see in one of the main industries in the country. The three-mechanical industry is of great importance to the Inland, and last week I met one of the region's main players, Moelven. They point out that there are challenges in the wood and forest-based sector, but also that significant opportunities exist. Forestry is important for Norway, and the government will work to improve its framework conditions. We have said that we will improve the competitiveness of the three-processing industry, inter alia: by simplifying transport rules and strengthening the possibilities for product and technology development. We will work on framework conditions that contribute to the development of the entire wood-based industry and stimulate industry to develop new market areas. Inland is also a region of tourism, and not least in winter sports, the region has a strong profile. For this industry too, the government will ensure good and predictable framework conditions. We wish, among other things: a more targeted market activity by pooling resources in larger travel destination companies. The Ministry has, among other things: set up a structural sample at national level with six regional project groups below, and Oppland and Hedmark participate in two of them. The Government will facilitate increased competitiveness of the business world throughout mainland Norway. This will create more secure jobs, thus providing better funding for welfare systems. An important prerequisite for this is that business needs to research more. We need to be even better at transforming excellent research into innovative products and solutions – products from which businesses can live and which will create jobs and increase value creation. That is why the government is proposing clear and significant priorities in the government budget for next year: we are funding the establishment of the Global Centre of Expertise programme, and I have noticed that a good candidate to take this role, among other things. are on Raufoss. The government strengthens the User-Controlled Innovation Arena by 80 million. kr. We significantly improve the TaxFUNN scheme by raising the deduction limit from the current level of 5.5 million. NOK 8 million. kr. In addition, the latest annual report from SkattenFUNN shows that many companies in Hedmark and Oppland have been approved new projects within the scheme in the last year. It can and should be even more. The government has started to work to ensure good framework conditions for business throughout the country. The government is adding up to reduced taxes and taxes. We distort the composition of the expenditure and reduce the level of expenditure within a responsible framework of oil money use. The proposals to reduce taxes on wealth and eliminate the inheritance tax have a major impact on the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises and on the long-term ability to finance new investments. These are measures that improve the framework conditions for business across the country, perhaps especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, including in Hedmark and Uppland. For the economy of the interior and the rest of Norway, the infrastructure represents a daily challenge. Therefore, the investment in infrastructure is one of the most important things that this government has to do to improve the business environment. Inland is at the heart of many transport links in the country, between north and south and east and west. The country's main aerodrome is close. All of this is a strength for business in the area. The government has determined that more road and track must be built in the country, and has followed this up in the additional contribution to the State budget – because a good transport policy is also a good enterprise policy. After eight years in government, the Stoltenberg II government reduced the election campaign in the Inland Committee. The right hand and the Progress Party have not spent the same time assessing whether we agree on the appropriateness of this. I support the work of the Inland Committee, but I hereby warn that we will make some changes. In order to strengthen the operational relevance of the sample, we replace some members of the sample with representatives of the business community. We also want to signal that the importance of trade for business development and housing is to be reflected more strongly in the mandate of the sample. This is intended to make the sample more nutrient-oriented and forward-looking. I have pointed out some important areas of government policy to ensure competitiveness for Norwegian jobs. The government wants a good interaction with businesses and business environments across the country to strengthen the competitiveness of the business community in mainland Norway – and the business community in the Inland. I look forward to receiving the Inland Committee's report with their advice on how to become an even more attractive region to live and operate in.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1296	Thank you very much for a positive answer. There's always something good coming out of a debate on Stortinget when you've been to Hamar and Raufoss. I hope the Council of State also noticed that it is not entirely foreign to the Stortinget – or to those in the previous government – that we must invest in infrastructure. A trip to Hamar today is a good proof that there is a lot going on in the infrastructure – fortunately. I strongly agree with many of the challenges and, to the extent that the solutions put forward by the Council of State point to, but I feel that there is one dividing line that we have to back up on these kinds of issues, and that is the question of where district-neutral measures should be. It focuses on now having instruments that seem to be similar to the whole country, and on how neutral they are actually going to be. I believe that the challenges, and the opportunities that we see in these areas, are calling for a comprehensive strategy, in line with what is being done, for example. have been in the north, where, according to my concepts, quite as much has been harvested, because you see peculiarities, and you see the need to raise districts and opportunities in the districts in a way that is different from what you might have traditionally done. We need more political attention about this, mainly because it is national political sizes we are talking about, something to live on in the future, and especially – I would point out – the climate challenges we face. But in this way, I am pleased that the Inland Committee is being passed on, which is, of course, an action aimed at a particular area, and which can guarantee that we can jointly build strategies that will enable us to harvest more than we actually do today. I know there are more people coming after me, but I'll also mention that I'm happy that the Council of State was at Raufoss, because I think it's a good example of building solid competence in an area of the country that doesn't have too much of that kind of environment. I would then challenge the Council of State that, when you go through the 2015 budget, you are more selective in how to cut budgets. The proposal now to cut wood-based innovation and a fairly even cheese-related research focussed on primary industries in agriculture and forestry is a little off with the opportunities and challenges we face in these industries – that we are therefore more selective in how to kiss. Finally, I would like to mention that there are some issues out there in these states that are particularly important for building skills, in particular the archive on Thinset, but also the jobs associated with the Directorate of Economic Management at Hamar.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1315	State Council of Malta has withdrawn from its three-minute posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1318	First, thank you to the interpellant for a good interpellation, and thank you to the Council of State for a positive response. Inland has some particular challenges and may be more affected than other regions by the two-way division we see in the Norwegian economy. Through the Inland offensive, we have put together a series of measures that we in the Inland can put together, together with the central authorities. The number of jobs in the domestic population has been lower than that of the rest of Norway, although some 1 000 new enterprises have actually been established in each of the domestic counties in the last four years. Experience shows that if a person starts from some of the things he is good at, he is more likely to succeed when businesses are established. And the Inland have opportunities: we have a rich and diverse cultural life, a well-developed organizer's competence and a good construction structure. It makes the Inland a living region of experience within culture, sport and travel. Peer Gynt, Birkebeineren, Prøysen, Beitostølen, Trysil, Skogbruksmuseet and the Festival Games in Elverum, Hadeland Glassverk and Kastefos-Museet are good examples of brands that can be further processed. Along with proud tourist businesses, good experiences can be created that contribute to more growth. The film companies, which have their origins in the environment at Lillehammer and Hamar, also have development opportunities and can become an even greater part of the success of Norwegian film. The production of films creates ring-effects and is a major industry in many countries. The Lilyhammer series shows that success can be achieved from the Inland. There are many professional cultural practitioners who together contribute to the development of quality experiences. It contributes to housing in many communities. The cultural field is important for the development of our part of the country as an even more attractive part of the country and for recruiting experts. Few counties have as many and large national parks as Hedmark and Uppland, and it is demanding that local communities get as much binding on their areas as many of the northernmost municipalities in the country. Therefore, the large community needs to provide funds to enable the development of experience-related activities in these areas. I'm glad that the Minister of Industry says she wants to continue the domestic strategy. That was a wise decision by the minister. Then I'm excited about the changes that are being announced. We know that there were 15 dedicated people who had agreed to sit in the public domain and provide a wide range to look at the domestic challenges. But there are also reasons for some concerns. The instruments needed to exploit the opportunities offered by the Inland are under pressure. The cultural promise has given cultural life opportunities for development. It's cancelled. A sample to assess how we could build competence for large events has been lost. The economy is expected to take greater financial responsibility for cultural life. Does the economy of the interior have a chance to do so? Enterprise policy shall be neutral. Are there the challenges facing travel and other industries in the interior? We see that the subsidies to national parks are under pressure, and that the regional development funds, which have been important for several of these development projects, are now to be used for road projects throughout the country and not only in areas where regional development funds have so far been used. It creates new challenges for our region. Hedmark and Uppland are at the centre of the statistics on the number of State jobs compared to the total labour market in the counties. Large parts of Hedmark and Oppland are close to Oslo and Gardermoen, and that gives us opportunities. That is why I invite the Minister of Industry to follow up the proposal to coordinate more government procurement, which is now being consulted, and that this be co-located with the purchasing organisation established south of Oppland by the Police Data and Material Service. Here's a short way to Gardermoen, it's not far from Oslo, and there's good access to skilled labour. Such a commitment could also contribute to interaction with the innovation power of our colleges, which under the Stoltenberg government was intended to play a central role in public innovation. The Inland offensive is a good starting point for an active policy for the Inland, which is constantly being challenged by the oil economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1344	‘Inland investment has had an overall approach’, it says in the text of the inter-pellant, but I think one forgot an important part of the whole. I'll get back to that a little bit. I think the debate is going to reveal that we have a slightly different view of what kind of instruments actually work. But I want to give credit to the interpellant for bringing up the topic, because there are some basic challenges that actually need national focus, as the interpellant also said. Then I want to commend the Council of State: a first visit to the Inland is a good signal, and I also think that the answer she gave bears witness to the fact that she has already got a good insight into the problem. It's a good citizen. I'm completely in line with the interpellant that we have to try to have a positive focus, but we can't completely forget the story either. Inland and especially Hedmark are the Workers' Party exhibition window. Here you have run for two generations without any particular interference from others, and then I understand that when the results aren't that good, you just want to have a positive focus. That's what I mean by the fact that we have to take reality into account, and this was also something that the former Council of State Navarsete's regional report – the big news of regional development – showed that we're at the top of a lot of crazy statistics. It was very clear. Whether it's educational level, birth surplus, population growth, value creation per capita or otherwise, there are some basic challenges that we need to take seriously. Then we have a pretty good foundation to get to this. The interpellant was in on this with soil and forest. I think he paid little attention to the fact that the forest resources in Hedmark are actually being exploited very well. The forest is under very active management, and if the rest of the country were just as high in exploiting it, we would have had a much bigger forest industry than what we have. But here we have a resource base that is the solution for, for example. the climate challenge. It depends a little on how the oil develops, but there is no doubt that everything you use today can be developed by forest as a raw material. It just takes a little bit of research before we get there. I also fundamentally disagree with the interpellant in what kind of solutions work. I believe the government is sending out very good signals. There's some focus on some cuts, but there's a lot more focus on the important grips in the government's budget, among other things. This is the case with SkattenFUNN and BIA, the User-driven Innovation Arena, which are important schemes for both the cluster of the NCI environment at Raufoss and the Biotechnology Environment at Hamar. Geno, as the interpellant himself mentioned, is a research environment at the top of the world. Norway has a semen bank and a knowledge of the inheritance characteristics of domestic animals that hardly have any other country, and it is in Hamar. There's a huge potential in it. Transport: There is no doubt that we need a lot more investment in transportation. The forestry industry has called for one real measure, and there is a commitment to transport, which reduces costs. The big mountain said that business neutrality was to be in focus, but the reality is that the red-green government has been sitting and looking at a traditional value chain that has been struggling with clear competitive disadvantages, without doing anything about it. That is what I would call discrimination against industry. The domestic strategy is important, but I believe that with the changes that the Council of State has signaled, especially if it is in the direction of bringing in much more private actors and entrepreneurs who have experience in how to start business, the conclusions of the Inland Committee will also be very good. For one of the signals that should also be taken over, local and private ownership in Hedmark and the Inland are far too weak. It is where the germ of future jobs lies. It's where the germ to put funds into innovation and development lies. That's also where the germ of localization lies. I think it is very good that the interpellant in the national Parliament has focused on important issues. But I also believe that the debate reveals that we have completely different solutions for how to get that development in the Inland, which we all want.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1365	I would first like to thank the interpellant for his commitment. We need a strong focus on the Inland. With regard to the answer, the Council of State should have been very simple in its answer: Yes, the government will continue the inward action – yes, the government will actually strengthen the commitment to the development of the Inland economy. I agree with the interpellant in one thing, and that is that talking negatively and then doubting about opportunities and instruments will have a negative impact on the development of the Inland. That's why it's important that we use a positive sign in every review. Of course, you should not be afraid to mention the challenges that exist, but you should not speak so negatively that this has a negative effect on itself. The interior has a business life where the weight lies in forest and wood processing, tourism and industry. The industrial environment at Raufoss is an engine for industrial development and innovation, not just for the Inland but for the whole country. One of the country’s NCEs, which together with the other NCEs in the country represents an innovation force that makes Norway competitive in the world market, is in fact located on Raufoss. The government sees the importance of developing these environments and will therefore strengthen Norway’s new cluster programme of 10 million. kr. Establishing a new cluster level, a Global Centre of Expertise, will enhance the global position of the cluster within its value chains. In addition, these clusters will be inspiring, knowledge base and development engine for many small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway. The importance of clusters at this level, which can do each other and other good, cannot be stressed enough. The government improves the TaxFUNN scheme to trigger more research in business and to enhance the ability to convert and value creation. Together with the strengthening of the User-Controlled Innovation Arena, this will have a broad impact on the economy of the Inland economy. West Toten, with the Raufoss environment, is one of the country's largest industrial municipalities, and it obviously bears the mark of the local environment. With competitive enterprises in the global market, fluctuations in the world economy will affect enterprises and the local environment as well. In recessions, a number of dozens, perhaps hundreds, of people in the industrial park may experience leave and dismissals. That is a fairly large enterprise, in Norwegian context. This obviously has consequences for the local environment. This has been a challenge that these companies in the industrial park have taken very seriously. Innovative thinking and adaptability, along with incredibly skilled employees, have made the Raufoss environment world-leading within its disciplines. The government sees the importance of helping to secure this role and further develop this environment. Norway has a high cost level. Therefore, technological development, knowledge, efficiency, quality and supply punctuality are important competitive advantages for the domestic industry. Should, for example: Volvo or Mercedes have their parts at 0 p.m. 12 on Tuesday, they'll have them at noon. 12 on Tuesday – not a quarter or quarter past. A few years ago, companies had large stocks of finished goods. This has changed significantly. The warehouses are currently largely on the road or track, on their way to the customer. You're dependent on good transport times. This has been taken into account by the government and, in its additional proposal, has strengthened the additional appropriations for both road and track to make the Inland more competitive. This will also be followed up over the next four years and hopefully even longer. Government rates on industrial development in the Inland and the rest of the country. We'll see this in both the short and long term. Good business environments are being reinforced and new ones are coming. I am convinced that the interpellant does not need to worry that the government will not invest in the Inland. But we who live in the Inland must and should have faith in the region, because it also has this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1393	This is a good topic for an interpellation, and it is good that we have a broad debate on this in the Stortinget. It was a wise decision by the red-green government to appoint an inland selection, and I am pleased that the Council of State today signals that it will continue, and that she is looking forward to the completion of that work. The challenges to business and value creation in the Inland region will require renewed attention. It also requires a strategic review. How will a profitable industry and jobs develop in the region in the years to come? Such a strategy will also require breadth and effort in many fields. The starting point must be what has been historically strong industries in the region. What is already the basic plan in the region needs to be able to develop further. This applies, inter alia, to: forestry, agriculture and tourism. It will also require innovation and research to progress in these industries, in developing new pathways, in doing good for entrepreneurs, and in creating other jobs. The development of education and research environments should therefore be central to any strategy for the development of the Inland. Access to capital will also be important, and I think that the idea of setting up a new seed fund for the Inland should be a central element of further thinking. I also think it is important that a straight look forward, and then I am a little surprised by the representative Gundersen who at one moment says that everything is black and difficult in the interior because the Workers' Party has been in power in the counties in recent years, and then at the next moment to say that in the Inland the forest resources are being used best throughout the country. There is a small paradox there, but I agree with the representative of Gundersen that especially Hedmark is making the best use of forest resources in the country. There's something you should be proud of, and there's something you should build on in the years to come. Then there is a need to focus on production, on output, on innovation and on the market. Therefore, it is a little sad that this government is starting to reduce the investment in several areas related to the forest industry, because it is targeted investment that has just come to the fore. Transport has also been mentioned here as an important investment. The Central Party agrees, and through the National Transport Plan, which was adopted by a broad majority in the United Kingdom in June, many of the major challenges in this area — including for the domestic part — were addressed. It is important that the challenges addressed by a national transport plan are actually followed up. I have noticed that the new government is concerned that it has replaced part of the regional policy and targeted instruments of social inclusion. I would be careful to sell that bet. It is clear that for a number of rural areas, the reduction and reduction in regional development funds is much greater than the additions made to them, for example. State roads. It's a minus statement for most of the districts. I also think it is important, especially for forestry, that the red-green government chose to allow car trains of 60 tonnes and 24 metres, but it is also important that this is now followed up by the Road Administration, by the counties and the municipalities, so that all roads that tolerate it are continuously upgraded. There has been one in some counties very good at, and in some regions it has been very good at it, but there I think it's still a lot to do that will be important for the interior. Then I must also be allowed to say that agriculture — in addition to forestry — is a central industry for the domestic sector. It is an industry that needs predictable and long-term framework conditions. The centre batch is determined by the agricultural notification's wish to increase food production by 20 pst. within 20 years. However, this means maintaining a differentiated farming system that takes account of different types of farming. That means you have to have good agricultural settlements in the years to come. This means that you have to be willing to use all available space, and that means not least that you have to have good customs protection. Earlier today, we have been through a debate here in the Chamber that was just about customs protection and the legitimate attitude that Norway has taken when it comes to switching from the krona to the percentage duty on cheese. This is a framework condition that is very important for agriculture throughout the country, including inland.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1416	Thank you to the interpellant who has raised an important debate. This is not just about the geographic hinterland – Hedmark and Uppland. This is, in fact, a debate on the whole of mainland Norway and – as the Council of State had in mind – on our competitiveness. That's why this is important. Some have indicated that one of the last red-green government’s contributions – an eight-year government – was to set up an inland selection. So over the eight years of the red-green government sitting on the rudder, the state budget in Norway grew by over 350 billion on the income side. kr. If you go in and see if there's a billion left in Hedmark and Uppland, it's not that easy to get an eye on it. It may smell a little bit more tiles and a little bit more asphalt, but significant sums are not left there in relation to other places. There is no basis for saying that there have been some domestic offensives in the last eight years. Looking a little backwards to former governments, the Inland 2010 was established by a Right-Christian People's Party-Left Government with Minister of Industry Lars Sponheim as one of the central government councils. In Oppland County, we have had the Free Front Project. There was also a centre-bourgeois constellation that stood for it. It was not only the Workers' Party that put forward an indigenous offensive; the Left also put forward its own, correct for Uppland, but we called it the Green Uppture. I think it is important to include green and renewables in the debate on a renewable continent that creates industry that we're going to live on from in the future. Several have been on wood, and there is a significant resource lying there. I'm glad the council has been to Raufoss already. In any new car in the world, we actually find a component from Raufoss, and it says something about what environment is there. I think for the wood industry we have the opportunity to recreate a similar industrial success as the one at Raufoss. There are no natural reasons why the world is producing car parts at Raufoss – that is the competence. It is a forward-looking industrial environment in which automation and efficiency have been created that is possible, and it also shows that the cost-effective development, the competitiveness, is possible in the inland world. Between Kongsberg, Raufoss and Gjøvik, we have one of the strongest knowledge environments in the whole of the country if one takes with it that Buskerud and Hallingdalen are actually also part of the inland. Here, it is possible to use the existing competence to recreate a similar industrial success based on renewable raw materials. Bioplastics are now on their way in. The first effervescent bottles of bioplastics are in production. There's a lot of opportunities here. In terms of energy, the inland area is already strong, and there are great opportunities to contribute to the green battery that Norway is going to become and, to this extent, is. We also have a domestic information security environment that sees the world-wide information security service market, which is becoming a billion-dollar industry, and this makes it possible to build on. Then we don't just have to do business. We also need a public sector that plays up to and contributes to creating the industrial environments and the business we want. In this way, it is possible for inland countries to organise themselves in a better way. The previous government was in the area of regional reform. A regional research fund of about Fifteen million. kr, and it goes without saying that there is too little to contribute to innovation and development. We also need to organise the entire public sector in another way in order to increase the level of competence. As far as the transport sector is concerned, there is no significant boost for the domestic economy to get a double track to Sørli, which is 18 km south of Hamar. Then we're still three hours away from Tynset and three hours away from Dombås. There's still a lot of work going on here. Another important part of this is recruitment, and we have to bet on youth to see the opportunities that exist in the interior to contribute to the transformation and the industrial creation that we have to have. Raufoss is another example to point to. Businesses are getting closer at school, especially in high school. We have to continue that development in several arenas. Young people look for opportunities, and then we also need to be involved in creating and facilitating the future professional life that young people want to enter. Otherwise, we are in danger of exporting very many young people to the coast of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1436	I would like to thank you for an important debate, and I would like to invite the Council of State to say a loud yes to Hedmark, Oppland and Inland Norway. The Norwegian economy is too twofold. We're too oil addicts. I know that the minister comes from a part of the country that has experienced a little different realities than those we have in the country, and therefore I am pleased that the Council of State has been in Hedmark. But sail if Mjösa is in the middle of the world, Hedmark and Uppland are much larger counties, and you have to travel a lot more to bring everything with you. I think that the debate, particularly related to both oil dependence and this by developing what is the great resources in Hedmark and Uppland – that is, what is growing up in our soil – has been given too little weight in this debate, perhaps especially in the forest, because there I think we need to dry up our minds. We have to dry to think longer. We have to dry up thinking many years in advance. If the Inland Committee does not say that we are going to have a huge research body related to forest as a resource for the industrial development of a renewable society, I hope the government does. At least the SV will take the initiative, because it is necessary, it is possible, and it is right to do so. I'm critical of much of what the government has done in its first budget, precisely because they've come up with what is the strong environment in Hedmark – it's agriculture, it's forestry, it's rural development, it's really important to be able to bring up entrepreneurs and innovation. I would ask the Minister, if she does not want to listen to SV, at least listen to the Association of Innovation Companies in Norway in Abelia, who warns very strongly against the cuts made in the regional development funds, and says that there are very many now who are at risk of cutting innovation and start-up – just what the government says it wants more. It's a little bit like that that's not going to be any more of getting little money. The representative, Kjeseth, was concerned about this with the importance of the public sector, the importance of the municipalities. When the government also signals that it will redeploy money, so that the municipalities that have large incomes will retain more, and income balancing will go down, it means loss for all municipalities in Hedmark. I find it difficult to believe that it will be easier to establish nutrition there, that it will be easier to recruit people, and to make them want to stay there, if the public sector and the municipalities in Hedmark are going to have much less money and get worse schools and more expensive kindergartens – because it also seems that the government is quite right, that kindergartens are getting more expensive. I think you have to think new. One cannot escape the foundation of the infrastructure for business throughout the country, and also in Hedmark. There's a whole series of cuts in this budget that kind of go all the way to the heart of what we're doing. In Hedmark and Uppland, agriculture and the food industry are very large industries. It is probably the case that if we do not intend to keep agricultural production up — both the large production that contributes most to large industrial production and district agriculture — we risk the industry in Hedmark. And it's big – there's a lot of thousands of jobs related to the food industry in Hedmark. It's not going to exist if we don't manage to keep the level of production up and have our own raw materials, because you're probably not going to import raw materials from abroad to produce food in Norway. I could also imagine, if the minister came to Hedmark, that she had taken a trip up to Sollia. There's a tiny little town at the foot of Rondane. There it is, among others. a small enterprise that has three annual works linked to a very small, very small use, and it is based on the relationship between culture and agriculture – there are three annual works on a tiny, very small use. It also shows how important culture is to be able to develop areas in Hedmark and Oppland, but also in the rest of Inland Norway, because this is quite similar to everyone. It would have been interesting to see how one there can establish something interesting for international tourism — from something very small, which may not look great in the tables, but which is very important to get a picture of what is positive for Norway, when tourists come here. We have to take care of this. We must not weaken these important businesses and these important areas of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1455	Let me first give my whole and full support to Karin Andersen's mention of how the blue budget hits the inlands. And so thank you to Knut Storberget who is raising this interpellation, and thus ensuring that we get this absolutely necessary focus on our part of the country. A lot goes well in the interior. We have many advantages and opportunities and disciplines that are leading both nationally and globally. But we also have major challenges, challenges that require increased national focus and increased national effort. Part of the inland area is characterised by declining population and demographic challenges. The proportion of social benefits received, sick leave, unemployment and the drop-out rate from secondary school are also higher than the national average. Our colleges are very important for the inlands to be on the offensive. They are flagships and in a raging development. It promises very well. However, large increases in both the number of students and the number of employees have caused considerable shortages of space. There must be no obstacle to the very positive development and the great potential we see. That's why we in the Workers' Party in our domestic offensive say that there has to be a building uplift in order to ensure that the universities in the interior have the necessary capacity and quality to house today's and the future's educational services. The building capacity is shattered by several of the education services — yes, there is actually a rather critical situation. It is very important that the ambitious professional level and pace can be maintained, and more than that — develop further, as we have seen so many good examples of in recent years. If this development is not followed up structurally, it will limit, and probably also force one to cut down on, the professional activity. That would be very unfortunate. For example, the number of students at the Gjøvik University has grown from 1000 to 3000 in eight years. The number of teachers has increased from 100 to 350, or 34 nationalities. If the government has parked the idea of an inland university, it must at least contribute to the fact that the development of our colleges is not parked, but facilitates the building mass of sufficient capacity and quality. Plans are clear, money is needed, and it's urgent. Our colleges have a close and successful collaboration with the business community. This has led us in many areas. Now there is a need for an inland research commitment with the strengthening and further development of the research and education environments, in particular in the forestry and agricultural industries, information security, public sector innovation, health technologies and travel. In several of these areas, our universities are already in the forefront and have gained national roles. NCE Raufoss, recently visited by the State Council, must be given the opportunity to develop into a Global Centre of Expertise. The council is quite right in what she said, it's a very good candidate, but the environment at Raufoss has to be more than a candidate. Furthermore, SINTEF Raufoss Manufacturing must be awarded the status of a research-driven innovation centre in manufacturing technology. Efforts at research, development and new educational opportunities serve all parts of the country. At the same time, there is a need for special and extra efforts and organisation where the challenges are greatest. That is why it is sad, I want to say nitrist, that the government is heavily involved in regional development funds. I hope this is not the beginning that the government will cut the whole scheme. The Council of State may be able to reassure us about this in its final statement – that this is the level, and that there will be no further cuts in the coming years, so that the scheme will eventually be completely gone. I also hope that the government will make a great deal of effort to ensure that municipalities in the hinterland with a low population density and a thin nutrient base get a lower employer's fee when the case is about to be re-treated. It could have a major impact on how these rural communities, and Uppland, could develop in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1470	It's obviously popular with historical reflections, so let me take you to my story. I grew up in beautiful, varied Valdres, with nature just outside the living room window. But when I was 19, I had to pack up the girl's room and move out of Valdres. I had to go to the big city to get an education. This is no unique story. Every year, many young people move out of the districts in pursuit of higher education. It's very good that young people get higher education, and they like to see a little bit of the world and get some experience. The problem is that there are too few coming back. There is a lack of skills jobs in many of our districts. District municipalities face challenges in maintaining their housing and creating attractive new jobs. That is why we need an active district policy. We need politicians who are willing to use targeted instruments to strengthen the inland but also other districts. There is cause for concern when the blue-blue government presents a draft budget that weakens regional policy instruments. It gives us those who want the inland a bright future, a great challenge. It requires that we become even more good at presenting the possibilities that exist in the interior. That's why I want to thank the interpellant for giving us this opportunity here today. The two-way distribution of the Norwegian economy is a major challenge for the whole country, but also for the hinterland. Then the solution is not to do like the government, namely to provide a budget that reinforces the problem. Nor do we have to do as the Workers' Party, bet on housing and industrial development in the country, so that Norway has more legs to stand on. Strong forces in society seem centralizing. All over the world, we are seeing more and more urbanization. If we are to curb this development, we need to use strong policy instruments. Therefore, the red-green government ensured that regional development funds were strengthened. Now it's worry and worry. The blue-blue government cuts a quarter of the funds that were to go to important stakes in local development, travel, business development, entrepreneurs and innovation. As Interpellanten, Storberget, said, the resource base for generating domestic growth is present, because in the interior there are many creative people with great dreams. To speak a language Right probably understand: these are people who have new ideas and better solutions. Then it is a pity that the regional development funds, which are an important tool for the county councils, which can support these people and their ideas, are being cut. I think it's innmari's sin, or – as the representative Hagebakken said – nitrist that you cut into this important tool, which contributes to growth, value creation and industrial development where it really needs to. If we are to succeed in the interior, we must invest in the industries we are good at: agriculture, forestry, tourism, culture and industry. But all these industries are being cut off by the government's proposals for a government budget. The vow of culture disappeared in the blue. Travel life is cut, and the government has made it an ideological enthusiast in agricultural policy to fool with the ostetoll. I want to say that not all the cuts are dramatic, but the government turns on a lot of switches – and they turn them on the wrong way. The sum of all these changes fears I can be a drastic course triangle in regional and regional policy. The Labour Party will pursue an active enterprise and district policy, where we are raising the good initiatives in the districts. Investing in the interior is forward-looking. We have green industries. It can help to slow down the two-way division of the Norwegian economy, and Norway has more legs on it. I am pleased that the Council of State confirms that the Inland Committee is going to go its way, and I am happy to discuss the measures. I think we need to create more jobs and create values and optimism in the interior. That is how we contribute to those like me – and many more who have moved – having something to return to a beautiful day.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1491	I must thank all the parties for their active participation in the debate. I intend to conclude as positively and constructively as I feel I started. Here's a lot to take with you. I think we disagree with what Mr Gundersen said. Nevertheless, I think the commitment is very good, and that many of the recordings that have come are very good. I do not intend to dwell on the claim made by the representative of Gundersen – that it is the Workers' Party in Hedmark that is responsible for all the negative parameters – besides to say thank you very much for the participation in the debate. There are two challenges I would like to point out, and in particular the one that came from the representative, Kjeseth, from the Left, namely that none of the growth – and the billions, as it was said – has come to the domestic states in recent years. With respect to reporting, we have – for Hedmark’s part – perhaps one of Norway’s largest road projects along Mjösa, which is about to be completed. It is a double track and a significant movement effort – we can count many billions of dollars – that the government parties have just pointed to as being particularly important in developing this area. So we shouldn't be blinding ourselves to this. I want to challenge the representative, Mr. Kjeseth and Mr. Left, if you really wanted to get closer to 1 billion. As regards the development of skills and opportunities in these counties, it is not possible to do what has been announced during the budgetary procedure, namely to vote against the construction of the large archive on Tynset, which is a large project and which the Left is now actually opposed. Then I will give the council two challenges in her final installment – a big one and a small one. The first is that for a long, long time we have heard from the Right – and especially from the representative Gundersen – that it is the high cost level in this country that makes it difficult, and perhaps, implicitly, it is the red-green that is responsible for the level of costs. What do you want to do with that? What is the government's strategy to bring down these costs, if that's what you want? The second challenge is relatively small. I know that during the last year the Ministry of Industry has had relatively close contact with the pharmaceutical industry about the development of Nycomed Pharma and alternative activities in Elverum. There have been several political-led meetings in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. My challenge and my question is: Will the Minister of Industry follow up on the work that is being done and have close contact with them, so that much of the very important competence in this environment can be taken care of? Otherwise, thank you for a nice debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1508	There has been a good debate, with input and views on both the domestic and the government's industrial policies, which we take with us in the further work. As I have underlined, the government will facilitate increased competitiveness for industry throughout mainland Norway. That's probably also the answer to the first question in the interpellant. Overall, the Norwegian economy is doing well. As a high-cost country, Norway must increasingly compete in knowledge and productivity. Our actions in the field of taxation and innovation, knowledge, technology and transport will help to stimulate the creation of value in the country and in the rest of the country. We have to be a co-player for the companies. We need to ensure good framework conditions for further development and conversion. We follow that up in many areas. I talked a lot about investing in research and innovation. Many have been involved in this with district-neutral instruments and non-nutritional instruments. My answer to Stortinget is that I want tools that hit, that work. What we're going to do in the next few months is review the use of the tools and make sure that they're used in the districts or cities, they're going to hit. The whole point is that instruments lead to innovation, that there is something that lies ahead, not behind them. There have also been some visits to regional development funds. We've moved them over on the way. We see that investing in transport and road is good district policy and good industrial policy. Then I got a challenge – whether we would continue the consultation on the coordination of procurement. The answer to that is an absolute yes. The state is responsible for a purchase of 170 billion dollars. kr every year. Then it is sensible policy – good economic policy – to coordinate these purchases. And it is, not least, good business policy to ensure that all small, medium-sized and larger enterprises can participate in the purchases. So we're going to continue that hearing. Many have also mentioned agriculture. I don't think it's a big surprise that the government's agricultural policy and the agricultural policy of the Central Party or the SV necessarily have differences. But what we agree on is that we have to make sure to bet on our advantage. One of the projects in the knowledge park at Hamar is about researching breeding. So you use your advantage to exploit resources that you can actually go with globally. I was challenged to run. I like to cry – both for the country and for the rest of the country. When you live, live and work in Bergen, you have good things to do with culture and nutrition – and not least the relationship between them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1527	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is going to be over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1543	The night until 7 April 1990, the ferry «Scandinavian Star» was hit by a catastrophic, deadly fire. There is no doubt that it was due to a fire brigade. 159 people were killed, of which 134 from Norway, 84 from Oslo. Many experienced terrible loss of parents, family, teachers, friends, coaches, etc. at its best age. Last night, I spoke to the pastor in our parish at Høybräten/Haugenstua, who followed up two children in our neighbouring block, who tragically lost both of their parents in the fire of death. The survivors and the survivors formed a support group immediately after the disaster, which adopted the following objectives: ‘Work for full clarification of the complete course of events related to the accident, its history and aftermath’. Following this, the support group and later the Foundation for the Exploration of the ‘Scandinavian Star’ murder fire have worked actively to find new information and to require a new police investigation, re-examination and new investigations. By this year at the latest, the support group has provided a broad justification and a request for re-examination to the government, and the Foundation has provided a thorough report and a request to the police and prosecution authorities for re-opening the investigation. Oslo police districts have then started work on reviewing the case documents and thus assessing whether there can be a basis for new investigations. In this respect, the support group has warned the political system against discharge if we only refer to the police review. The police shall primarily consider the investigation of criminal and civil liability, and not other aspects of the matter, which are the responsibility of the authorities. There is every reason to take these points of view and the new requests from the Support Group and the Foundation with the utmost seriousness. This is about the most serious fire disaster we've had in recent times, and many survivors, survivors, relatives, family and friends have worn extra for all these years because there are so many unanswered questions. Some of them will hopefully be able to participate in the review of the police, but it has also come in recent years – after the Stortinget discussed the matter in the form of a presentation, a big message and later a proposal for a representative in the 1990s – to provide new information that makes it appropriate to look with new eyes at some more general premises and frameworks for which different parts of the administration system have been responsible. This applies in particular, first of all, to the treatment of the course of fire. Here, both the investigation – through the mandate of the fire experts – and the investigation have limited itself to investigating the first and a half hours of the fire until the captain left the ship. But the fires lasted for 38 hours, even if those who died died, died in the first phase. The police and investigation committee said this was a follow-up fire after the first one and therefore there was no need to investigate further. Later, the same SINTEF experts who were experts in the 1990 Review Committee, at least since 2001, have mentioned several times that it is necessary to conduct new studies on the entire fire course — with the six subsequent fires — and have proposed a model of how this can be done. Investigations that have come from several fire departments, such as Sweco and Skansen Consult, have concluded that the fire course can only be explained by the fact that there have been a number of independent fire foundations on board. Of course, whether there has been one fire with accompanying fires for 38 hours or more independent fires, is crucial for many aspects of the case, including: on the main suspect, who died in the first fire, may be the only fire extinguisher. The only way to create greater certainty and clarity around the fire course is likely to carry out some kind of reconstruction and testing of models with today's technology and expertise. In this case, this must be an authority initiative. The size should have an interest in this, because one also in St.meld. 63 for 1991-1992 indicated that there was one fire. The second question, where new conditions have still arisen in recent years, concerns ownership and insurance payments. While the first statement to the Stortinget stated that this was clarified, and later that it did not matter because there was only an economic relationship between private individuals, new questions have been raised and books and large articles have been published, the only thing that is certain is that ownership is not safe or clear. In a 2005 Oslo District Court case on insurance liability, Judge Johan Berg draws this conclusion and states that: «there are grounds for asking questions as to whether the ship's liability has been placed under the responsibility of the ship. It may appear that there are grounds for claiming that the actual ownership of the ship has not been taken into account in the handling of the case by the Authority and in the criminal proceedings that followed’. The Danish national lawyer also concluded in 2005 that the ownership conditions had not been established, and the then State Council Erik Solheim wrote in June 2009: The ‘Scandinavian Star’ accident is a good example of how tax havens conceal ownership and thus allow for the avoidance of both civil liability and punishment. To this day no one knows who owned the boat." In NOW 2009: 19, Tax Paradise and Development, it states: ‘However, ultimate ownership has not been established. The ship was registered in the Bahamas. There is justified suspicion that an American company was the real owner of Scandinavian Star. [[...]] If the survivors had filed an action for damages against the company in the United States, they might have achieved significantly higher compensation than through Danish law." When such conclusions are now drawn by Oslo District Court, by a Council of State and in a Norwegian public investigation, it becomes quite contradictory whether what was stated in the statement and in documents to the Stortinget in the early years of the 1990s will remain. In today's more open world economy and new tax havens rules, it should be possible to try to turn this stone again. The third relationship that has been updated is the three-part investigation — between technical, tactical and economic investigations between Sweden, Norway and Denmark, respectively. It was so that Sweden, at a very small police station in Uddevalla, was responsible for the crime scene. Denmark, at a similar station in the district of Frederiksberg in Copenhagen, was responsible for maritime law, navigability, shipowners' liability and thus ownership, and Norway, at the Oslo Police Chamber, was responsible for the fire itself and the fire foundation. The only people who have been convicted in the case are three people who have been convicted by Danish law, as part of the Danish responsibility in the division. They were convicted of putting the ship into service without it being properly conditioned. They got six months in jail. The Norwegian section, the investigation of the fire department, was closed after one year, but the case has a limitation period of 25 years under the arson paragraph, i.e. until April 2015. At the same time as you dropped the case, there were two things that have later become important and controversial. Firstly, a named person who died in the first fire was designated as the only possible suspect among the 482 on board. The former police officer in Oslo, Willy Haugli, said to the VG on 13 March 1991: ‘All options other than Danish are excluded’. At the same time, it was admitted that there was no technical evidence or any common testimony, as VG is going through today. It is a problem for the later Stortinget that you too in St.meld. No 63 for 1991-1992 joins the appointment of one person as a likely perpetrator, which may be fundamentally problematic given our legal principles. It also came together with the 1991 decree of the Advocate General of the State of Oslo to review the division of investigation, cf. that there had been problems with coordination and joint management of investigations. Very familiar, however, is nothing done with this third until now, in the 22 years that have passed. If we're really going to review it again, we should definitely take an overall approach to go into it in a whole, unified and different way. There is much more that can be said about new information and which stones should be turned in this case. My concern is what we from different teams can do to help the survivors and the survivors, friends and family get more and better answers, and that the greatest death toll in recent times should not go into history as one unsolved mystery in many ways. If anything can be done to get on with this, I am sure that Stortinget believes it should be done. I am not looking to criticize the Council of State, which has been sitting for a short time, or others for anything, I am only concerned about the matter. My expectation is not that any final conclusions will be drawn today on re-examination or new studies. My hope is that we will agree that we need to make our own assessments of whether there are any questions beyond the police that the authorities have to take their responsibility to investigate and examine from new information, in order to contribute to the response of survivors and survivors and history, to the fact that the treatment of the Stortinge stands for the future and that we can learn more for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1601	The support group following the ‘Scandinavian Star’ accident sent a letter to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade and the Ministry of Justice and Defence in Norway and to the Danish and Swedish Governments on 23 April this year. The letter asks that an investigation committee be set up with a mandate to investigate the entire fire course on board the ship and to investigate ownership and shipowner’s responsibility for ‘Scandinavian Star’ at the time of the disaster. I will begin by commending the efforts of the support group, and I share their desire for clarity in the root causes of the fire disaster that struck many more than 20 years ago. The question is how we can best find out how the fire started and who was responsible for the fire. It is natural to take a starting point from the Schei Committee report on the 1991 review presented in NOU 1991:1A. The support group said that this review was too limited. It is now considered by the support group to be essential for the implementation of professionally based studies in order to clarify the full and comprehensive range of fires. The support group also presents, and they describe a proposal for, a separate project, which they consider could provide part of this clarification. This project is estimated to cost 1 million. kr. In the case of ownership and shipownership, the support group in its letter points out that it was outside the remit of the Schei Committee to address this issue. In this letter, the support group concludes by saying that it does not accept that the confusion of ownership and responsibility for the operation of «Scandinavian Star» on 7 April 1990 will become a historical phase for the Scandinavian authorities’ description of «Scandinavian Star». In the letter, the support group also stated that any new investigation commission should have members from all three Scandinavian countries in addition to representatives from the United States and the Bahamas. The Support Group calls for such an investigation to be carried out even if the police were to find the basis for reopening their investigation into the cause of fire and the course of fire. When reference has been made in the interpellation to the Storting's need for more 'complete information' on this matter than was previously received, I would point out that the Storting itself has the opportunity to initiate parliamentary scrutiny on this matter as well. As the representative of Bøhler is aware, the police in Oslo currently operate and evaluate the information provided to determine whether to initiate a new investigation into the cause of the fire and the entire course of the fire. This work has been started as a result of several external enquiries. However, the study mandate does not cover the issue of ownership and shipownership, which has been investigated by the Danish authorities. At this point, it is important to recall the division of labour that was already agreed between the Norwegian and Danish authorities shortly after the fire disaster, which was also addressed by the interpellant in its statement, namely that the Norwegian authorities would be responsible for the investigation of the fire, while Danish authorities would investigate the ownership and shipownership conditions. This division of labour is, as far as I understand, still on the ground. For the sake of completeness, I mention that the support group on 5 September this year sent a new letter to the government of Stoltenberg on the matter, arguing in particular that the question of starting a new investigation should not be affected by the police's ongoing assessments. The proposed mandate of the Support Group for a re-examination following the Scandinavian Star disaster is extensive. In addition to examining the entire fire course as well as the owner and shipowner conditions, it is also proposed to investigate a number of conditions such as: concerns maritime law, insurance law and maritime safety aspects. The Ministry of Justice and Defence has therefore obtained information and assessments from several relevant bodies. Among other things, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade states that the State Emergency Commission is currently operating in line with international rules laid down by the International Maritime Organization, the IMO, and the EU as a professionally independent body, which cannot or is not to be instructed by the Supreme Ministry in respect of either the accidents to be investigated or the manner in which an investigation is to be carried out. Nor is there any basis in the Maritime Act to establish a new separate Commission, as it was previously possible to do. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade also states that important measures have been taken at national and international level to clarify the real ownership of ships. International legislation has significantly strengthened the requirements in this area in recent years. This applies, inter alia, to: the 2007 Ship Safety Act. I mention this to stress that a re-examination of this accident itself is not necessary to initiate today new requirements for ship safety and ship ownership. There are other factors that will be crucial to assessing this case. Otherwise, the question of a re-examination of the ownership and shipownership conditions around ‘Scandinavian Star’, as mentioned above, is addressed by the Danish authorities which carried out the investigations in due course. The police investigation in Denmark also led to criminal proceedings. If you want to go back into these situations, you are completely dependent on the participation of the Danish authorities. In my opinion, the question of a possible investigation in some form cannot be finally resolved now. As long as the police continue to investigate whether there are sufficient grounds for starting a new investigation into the fire, we should await their conclusion. Here, too, it is important that I, as Minister of Justice and Defence, do not take decisions that can be seen as an intervention in the responsibility of the prosecution authority. I also believe that the conclusions of the police on the feasibility study should be awaited in order not to create a vague overlap of investigation activities. If the prosecution authority decides to resume the investigation, one should, in my view, refrain from parallel investigation which may harm the investigation of the criminal case. If the prosecution authority does not find a basis for opening the investigation of the fire case, the government will consider whether there is a basis for setting up a special government-appointed investigation committee to look at the fire case. In assessing whether such an investigation committee should be appointed, one will also have to assess whether a civil investigation committee will be able to clarify the root cause beyond what police investigation has shown. It is also necessary to clarify whether it is not more appropriate for the Storting to carry out its own parliamentary and completely independent scrutiny through the instruments available to the Stortinget. I have sent a letter of response to the support group, clarifying the position that I also make clear in my response to this interview. Unlike what my predecessors have done, I have at least answered the enquiry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1635	I thank the Council of State for a positive response, I would say. What was my main question was whether you want to make your own assessments of what is a different framework, other premises for dealing with the Scandinavian Star issue than the police, whether you want to make your own assessments of whether there is a need to look at it again. I believe that the Council of State confirmed when he said at the end of the post that he would consider setting up a new review committee if it were not to be reopened by the police — consider whether there is an independent basis for setting up such a sample. It is the own assessment that the political system has to make – I agree – both here at Stortinget and in the government, which I believe it is essential that we take responsibility when the police take responsibility for their part – i.e. that we take responsibility for every part of this matter. If the Storting itself is to carry out a parliamentary scrutiny, it is certainly a comprehensive process to discuss in greater detail. The things I have pointed out regarding Stortingen's treatment have been based on documents presented by previous governments, i.e. a big message and a presentation. There are governments of different colors in the different phases, so it has nothing to do with the political color, but there are some important premises for dealing with the matter here on the Stortninget that have been presented by previous governments, and that of course makes it natural that the government on its side also looks at what the Council of State concluded with. I think it is useful to get such a discussion today, which we can get through this inter-pelling debate, so that the Council of State in the opening of those assessments – when we now also follow the police’s findings – can bring with it assessments here from the Storting on how we should proceed. It's impossible to wonder what the police will find out. I'm sure everyone's excited. But they have their limitations, including: in the Council of State on ownership – that it is the Danes who have been responsible for it in this third. So I would like to ask if the Council of State would like to take a few more initiatives now – especially towards the Danish, but also Swedish, authorities – so that it is now possible to make an overall assessment of the need to re-enter it by the authorities. If the police were to decide to resume the investigation, I believe there is a crucial need for the suspension of that third, to be given the opportunity to enter the whole area of the case in a comprehensive, comprehensive manner, to be coordinated and managed by the investigation that covers the whole picture – not only one part, the part for which the Oslo police were responsible, which created problems to do so in a fully-fledged way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1644	I am pleased that the representative of Bohemia saw it as a positive answer, for it was basically what it was. I agree that we should carry out our own assessment, but a free assessment based on the knowledge we have, after the police have clarified how they will handle it. I think it is important to stress that it is important that we do not make decisions on the part of the government that could affect the police's position on this, and that is why I stress that such an assessment must be free – even after the police have made a decision whether or not they want to reopen the case. Whatever the case, Danish involvement is crucial if the police are to open up the case, and Danish participation is also crucial if they are not to do so, if you are to investigate this case. So the Danes will in any case play a crucial role, no matter which way you go. I cannot say today that I want to take my own initiative with the Danish authorities while waiting for the police's assessment, precisely because I believe it is vital that we now hear what the police themselves decide. Then we're going to have to assess politically whether there's any basis for setting up our own review committee. At the same time, I think it is important to stress the possibility that the representative of Bøhler expressed that was a bit complicated, namely a sizeable investigation commission. I do not agree that it is significantly more complicated than a government-designated investigation commission. Perhaps a parliamentary committee of inquiry could even bring a slightly different approach to the matter than a government-appointed investigation commission could do. So it's a discussion that I hope the representative of Bohemia will also bring his own into the Stortinget, in order to clarify the attitude of the Stortinget towards such an investigation. In any case, it is not likely that the government will go to the step of setting up such a survey selection, without one having determined in advance how the Storting behaves. In any case, the involvement of the size will have to be required. But I think it is important that Stortinget also evaluates the possibilities that Stortinget itself has with such a type of case, which has grown old, but which has hit many, and which fearlessly many still have heavy and evil memories attached to and very strong losses. So this is a case that might be suitable for that kind of assessment of the Storting as such.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1655	The fire on board the «Scandinavian Star» in 1990 was a terrible tragedy that struck many people. 159 people lost their lives, and many are left with a great rest after losing their loved ones and their loved ones. Being left and feeling that all the answers have not been obtained and have to be illuminated is considered an extra strain after such a sad event. The size has dealt with the matter in the light of then, known information and investigations. A group from Kripos, Oslo Police District and Ecokrim will now look into the matter together and make their assessment of the previous investigation. For Storting it is important, both in this case and in future cases, to ensure that there is as good a basis for decision as possible. That is why I agree with the approach taken by the Minister of Justice to the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1666	The interpellant takes up a very serious and a very important matter. The disaster, which happened 23 years ago, is one of the biggest things we've had in the postwar period. 160 people died, if we also expect a baby in the stomach of a woman who died in the hospital. This isn't just an accident either. It was confirmed shortly after the fire that it was on – without any perpetrator being convicted. Murder fire stands as a dark chapter in our history, and for many relatives and survivors, it is an event that will never let go. In order to help them get the most behind them and to be able to move forward, it is important to find out the facts about what really happened to the tragic weekend in April 1990. There we, as politicians, also have a responsibility. After the fire it was known to the Norwegian police who investigated the matter. The person, whom the police assumed was the perpetrator, died even in the fire, and the case was dismissed. It was then agreed that Denmark should investigate ship safety breaches, and the Supreme Court gave its judgment in November 1993. Three persons were convicted — including the shipowner and the captain on board — of security breaches. They got six months in jail. In 1996, new information was provided which led to the request by the ‘Scandinavian Star’ support group to reinstate shipowners’ liability, but it was rejected due to limitation periods in Denmark. But they have not given up hope that the facts they have provided will be the subject of investigation and/or investigation. Since then, many new information has also been made available. In April of this year, the Foundation presented a report requiring a new investigation. The report contains systematised and aggregated documentation on the conditions of fire detection. The police have now set up a sample to assess whether the case should be reopened, and this work is now well under way. The aid group has also asked the Scandinavian Governments for re-examination. That is why I think it is very good that the interpellant now addresses this matter, so that we can get a political assessment of whether the matter should be examined – not just to get all the facts out, but also to see what we can learn from the matter. Investigation and investigation are not necessarily mutually exclusive, but can also be carried out at the same time because of their nature. A policy-determined investigation and a police investigation must address different aspects of the case. The investigation is to reveal criminal liability, while an investigation is to find out what really happened, so that we can learn from the case. I am therefore pleased with the signals that have emerged in the debate now, and that the government will reconsider the matter, so that the facts can be as clear as possible and lessons learned.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1685	I want to take this opportunity to stress that it has a very big impact on many of those who are survivors, their survivors, their closest friends and their closest friends, that we are trying to solve some of the issues that create doubt, that are unresolved questions, that create speculation. We have gained a better culture for this in Norway in recent years, including: July 22 has meant a lot in that context. It's better to get answers, it's better to know, than speculation continues, even if you get answers that don't lead to the theory that you might have being confirmed. It may be that persons who may have been produced in a suspicious light may also receive answers that will relieve the burden on them if better research is carried out on what has now been the image. It can go in any direction. Now, if we get to do something thoroughly with the case based on today's assumptions, I think it'll help whether one theory or another is confirmed. I also want to add that in the case of the survivors and the survivors, there are many, as I have been told, who may have different health problems that they have had to deal with for very many years. I think there's reason to go into it, how good the follow-up of the health has been in those years, and whether there's anything left to do there, things that should be taken up again. It may also be part of such a review as the Council of State suggested that we should consider. The question that matters most here is what concerns the fire course, which I also started with – the technical investigation of it. It has to do with the third division, where there was a small police station in Uddevalla in Sweden that was responsible for the crime scene at that stage. A lot of questions have been asked about this, which the police have to look at, but I just want to mention that, for example. the main suspect's cabin was secured six weeks after the fire, that central persons, including: among the firemen, were not interrogated, etc., and that there has been a lot around a bent hydraulic pipe and the basis of a subsequent fire attached to it on board the ship, such as. VG has presented. It was very positive that at the beginning of his speech the Council of State said that he was interested in what the support group described in an enquiry to the government, namely to create a separate project on how to technically map the fire course and use today's technology to find out better about its context. It would be very valuable in itself to carry out the part in which the Council expressed interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1703	I think it's good to record the exposure to the Scandinavian Star accident, and it's an engagement shared by many. That's why I also think this interpellation expresses an commitment that one should take seriously. It's bad for relatives when you feel that the final sentence is not being set, and that's a situation that we from the political team have to take seriously. At the same time, it is important for me to stress that neither this debate in the Stortinget nor signals from the Minister of Justice and Security have to contribute to the impact of the results of police investigations on an independent basis. I think they have to finish that job before we finally decide whether there is a basis for a larger and wider review of the whole situation. I agree that the two things have nothing to do with each other, necessarily, but I think it has to be done in an order that matches, so that one does not come into a situation where a parallel analysis – in fact – could affect an ongoing investigation by the police, if they were to choose to open up a new case. I think today's short debate has revealed what we really knew in advance, namely that it is a broad political commitment to get facts out, and as the representative Bøhler really said, it is better to get answers than to get right. In the kind of cases where there are very many involved, there's an important perspective when we're going to make those assessments in the future with the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1712	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1718	We then go to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1726	The President will propose that the statement on important EU and EEA matters by the Minister of State at the Office of the Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU held at the Stortingen meeting on 21 November 2013 be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-28.ana.ud1475e1895	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
