ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e22	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e25	On behalf of the representatives of Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Vokskesen, Arne Sortevik and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to obtain the maintenance kit run on the national and county roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e30	The representative, Mr Sortevik, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e33	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Inbjørg Godskesen, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Gjermund Hagesetter and myself, I have the pleasure of presenting proposals for full government funding for the continuation of the Bergen programme for transport, urban development and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e38	The representative, Siv Jensen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e41	On behalf of the representatives of Bård Hoksrud, Arne Sortevik, Åse Michaelsen, Solveig Horne, Gjermund Hagesetter, Åge Starheim, Harald T. Nesvik, Per Sandberg and myself, I am delighted to present representative proposals on the construction of the ferry-free E39 based on project financing and project organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e46	The representative, Mr Øyvind Håbrek, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e49	On behalf of the representatives of Laila Davøy, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I am pleased to present a proposal for a representative on an action plan for full foster home coverage and a stability reform in child protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e55	The representative of Svein Harberg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e58	On behalf of the representatives of Elisabeth Aspaker, Henning Warloe, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for a representative on a strategy for university environments at the top of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e63	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e75	On Wednesday 27 March, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Sigbjørn Johnsen, Jonas Gahr Støre and Ola Borten Moe will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e82	The markets in Europe are deteriorating. The economic situation is difficult and the financial crisis does not escape the roof. The government and the opposition all see that this puts Norwegian companies in a challenging situation. Many Norwegian companies have Europe as their leading market, and when markets shrink, competition becomes even stronger. The competition situation for Norwegian business is not as good as it should have been, both because there are some strange, strict framework conditions at home, and also because the pay level at home is very high. When you haven't had an increase in productivity, when you actually have a governor who says that today per capita we don't produce more than what we did five years ago, the situation hasn't evolved in the right direction. Over the last few years, the Progress Party has proposed a number of measures that would improve the framework conditions for Norwegian business, which would improve the competitive situation, thus making Norwegian business better equipped for the situation they are currently in. Then, unfortunately, we have not received a majority. Now we're facing a paycheck, which we do every year. Then our question is, what can the government contribute to this time to give us a more moderate wage settlement and thus avoid getting the same growth and difference in salary levels in Norway as in other countries? The real wage in Norway is approx. 61 pst. higher than our trading partners in the EU. This makes it difficult to compete for contracts that are labour-intensive. So the development of productivity has stood still, and we will be very vulnerable if we get an oil price drop, which has been the driving force for growth in the Norwegian economy. The government often talks about tripartite cooperation. When we addressed this in a written question to the finance minister a month ago, he referred only to the two-party cooperation. At that time, the role of the state in the wage settlement was completely removed. So the question is, will the government contribute anything into this year's wage settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e93	I agree with Mr Solvik-Olsen that this is a demanding and challenging situation in Europe. It's not least demanding because millions of people have now lost their jobs because of it. the financial crisis and other conditions affecting the economies of individual countries. Now last we saw it in Cyprus and the situation there. It is also true that Norwegian companies face stronger competition in Europe because the market has collapsed. This calls for greater efforts to improve the competitiveness of Norwegian industry over the years and in the future. Then I want to tell the representative Solvik-Olsen that it is wrong when the representative claims that there is no development in productivity in the Norwegian economy. If you go to the national accounts figures, which were published some time ago, the productivity of the mainland economy in 2012 was 1.6 p.p., and that is in line with the average we had in productivity growth in the period 2001–2011. In fact, there's also something about the productivity growth we see, among other things. in our two nearest neighbouring countries, Sweden and Denmark. So it's important to keep it in mind, but I agree that it's important to continue to invest in good productivity development in Norway. In the case of wage settlement, it is the responsibility of the parties to implement it. What we can do on the part of the authorities is to facilitate a predictable, safe and good economic policy – to be faithful to the frameworks of economic policy, to be faithful to the rule of action and to the foreseeable and safe development of the Norwegian economy. It is the most important contribution we can make to ensure that Norway has great confidence and that the Norwegian economy gets a good stamp out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e102	With regard to our neighbouring countries in the EU, the Progress Party believes it is better that we help them by purchasing construction services from them, for example. by building roads and railways in Norway, rather than just borrowing them money, as the government does. This will ensure that unemployment can go down a little bit. I am dealing with the governor, who in his year's year pointed out that the value creation per capita in Norway has not increased under the red-green government. The trend from 2006 in productivity development has been downwards, although luckily a slight recovery has occurred in the last year. But I think you should relate to the entire government period. However, the point of the Progress Party is that the government in its government budget has assumed that the growth in earnings in Norway will be four percentage points this year as well. That's what the Progress Party thinks is high. We would rather help reduce the level of taxation somewhat. With a state rich in capital – richer than any other country – we have that space of action. This would allow Norwegian business to experience a lower wage settlement while giving workers an increase in real wages and would improve their competitiveness and thus secure jobs in Norway. Will the government take a look at that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e111	It is now the case that foreign companies and entrepreneurs are involved in infrastructure development in Norway. I have every Friday the joy of passing the project with a new E6 and Dovrebane northwards from Minnesund. Participation shall include, inter alia: an Austrian company, Alpine Bau, in that establishment. Projects are being put up for tender in Europe, so they are actually already involved in the development of major infrastructure projects in Norway. In the case of tax relief as part of a salary settlement, in the 1970s, we had what we called a combined income settlement where the government went in. The experience from this was not unparalleledly positive. I believe that it is not a good contribution to an income statement to create a system in which you get tax relief directly into an income statement. The experience of the 1970s shows that it was an experiment that should not be repeated.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e118	Two follow-up questions are raised – first the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e121	The Minister of Finance started by saying that there is a difficult situation in Europe. We are in Stortingen in Norway, and the situation should not be as demanding. Nevertheless, we feel that there are record numbers in the public sector. There are record numbers of different social security measures, and there are record numbers of immigrants and immigrants who are gradually out of work. So we have our share of labor, so do we. It's the weight of the Advance Party in life to be irresponsible. It is the Minister of Finance's definition of the Progress Party's policy. But it's better to be irresponsible and sustainable than responsible and on social security. So the Progress Party will present tomorrow a proposal that we get a settlement that will allow us to remedy competitive business with tax relief. Then we'd better fix the mistakes from the 1970s. I hope the Council of State agrees. When the Progress Party is promoting this proposal tomorrow, will the Minister of Finance perhaps nevertheless look with new eyes at such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e128	It has not been long since the Stortinget actually dealt with a similar proposal from the Progress Party and voted it down. I would assume that the same will happen with this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e133	Gunnar Gundersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e136	Right-wing focus on tax havens that promote growth and employment. The most important thing we do in our alternative state budgets is to raise the minimum deduction. In last year's option, we increased the minimum deduction by NOK 4000 and also increased the percentage so that it would favour both full-time and part-time employees. It is important in Norway today, where the questioner is concerned, to stifle the cost growth, on which we have a curious development. The important thing for the individual is what you're left with after tax. My question is then: does the Council of State think it would be a strength to bring with it Right-wing tax arrangements from last year's budget into this year's wage negotiations?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e142	The tax arrangements included in the annual wage negotiations — and to the extent that they are taken into account — are, of course, the tax arrangements adopted by the Grand Duchy. This happened, among other things: changes that caused the minimum deduction to be considered. But that was not the right suggestion. My point is that the payroll is the responsibility of the parties. We can facilitate good development in the Norwegian economy through safe and predictable governance of the economy. We can facilitate good development in the Norwegian economy through education, investment in transport, research and other areas that are important for the competitiveness of the Norwegian economy and enterprises. At the same time, it is important to underline one more thing that I think is important in terms of tripartite cooperation. It is to have a decent and good working life — to have the security of employees in the work situation. It is, in fact, an important competitive advantage for Norway. Probably the record for both the Right Party and the Advance Party is slightly different from that of the government parties. [[The President clubs.]] I'm sorry it's actually like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e149	We move on to the next main question – from the representative Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e152	My question goes to the Minister of Health. About 70 pst. of patients admitted to Norwegian hospitals come as emergency patients. 600,000 immediate relief patients come to the hospitals via the country’s emergency department. On TV 2 yesterday we could hear that eight out of ten doctors who are responsible for emergency services are fresh tour operators. These are doctors who are under education and who have an average of five to six months of practice. So they're meeting over 600,000 immediate patients who come through the emergency room. Inexperienced medical professionals therefore manage the vast majority of our emergency services in Norwegian hospitals. This is a situation that is quite special for Norway, and which is to a small extent found in other countries. This is nothing new. A report from the Health Authority of 2007 showed that this led to a significant increase in the risk for Norwegian patients. Some hospitals have done something about this. Ahus has, among other things: put experienced doctors in the front with nurses to meet patients. St. Olav's Hospital is about to do the same. Nevertheless, most of the places you see that the opposite is the situation. This means that many patients are exposed to unnecessary risks. This may have serious consequences, such as the example from Ringerijk Hospital shows. Many patients also experience this as a bad first meeting with the health care system. You have a lot of different meetings with health professionals, which you have to tell the same story over and over again. Does the Council of State mean that this should be up to the individual hospital to take care of itself, or will he take national control to rectify this? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e161	The President asks the representative – and, to the extent possible, the Councils of State – to stay within the time allocated to the speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e164	I want to start by saying that I mean Norway has a good emergency chain, that is, the way to treat people who have what we call acute conditions. It is worth remembering that the OECD measures survival after heart attack and stroke, which are good indicators of it. Norway is coming out very well. I don't want to doubt TV 2's numbers from yesterday. I checked with regional health companies yesterday evening and in the morning hours today to get their picture. It's more complex. Most large and medium-sized hospitals in Norway have doctors present on a daily basis, and all have doctors in the rear guard who can be contacted. So I think it's like in our country we've done something different than you've done in other countries. This is due, inter alia, to: Geography – we have 50–60 hospitals in Norway, which have an emergency function – and we are not Denmark. We've organized ourselves in a way that makes it possible to maintain such a function. I don't think it's a realistic scenario that you're supposed to have in front of all hospitals, as someone might want. The last few years have been working to improve the competence of emergency services. The representative himself referred to two hospitals – Ahus and St. Olav’s Hospital – as examples. There are also several slightly smaller hospitals – the above are large – working on it. The specialised training system in Norway is also being worked on. I think we're about to take a closer look at the specialist functions of emergency medicine. There are challenges to an emergency response – capacity and waiting times. The emergency receptions are getting a lot of enquiries. Several should have been handled earlier, so that there was less pressure placed on the hospitals. So we have a challenge in terms of professional identity, so the acute recipients don't belong to their own specialty. So this is what we're dealing with. I do not agree that the tournament games control emergency receptions in Norwegian hospitals. They're at many hospitals in the front, but they have good support from more experienced doctors.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e179	Norsem, the Norwegian Association for Acute Medicine, has also shown that the doctors receiving emergency patients at the Norwegian emergency department have an average experience of six months. So this isn't just TV 2's numbers. That's NORSEM's number. The Health Inspectorate's report shows major deficiencies in the management of Norwegian emergency services. The Council's response again shows that it seems that only health businesses are allowed to manage this activity themselves and that there are no plans to take national control in this area. We saw the same thing when the Health Authority presented a very serious report on the situation of Norwegian cancer patients in 2010. This was not followed up either by the Ministry of Health or by the regional health businesses. The same happened when the National Centre of Medical Competence produced a serious report on the situation of Norwegian medical officers. It seems like the only requirement that is really followed up by this government towards the hospitals is the requirement that they go on a balance sheet. [[President clubs]] All reports showing hazardous conditions for the safety of patients are not followed up. Why is patient safety not being followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e184	This is a rough presentation of the situation in Norwegian hospitals and their management. Action is being taken in a wide range of areas to strengthen competence, strengthen preparedness and follow technological developments. That is why I cannot accept the description given by the representative here. I believe that the situation at the Norwegian emergency reception centre is arranged so that good support is widely available. It's also true that there's an emergency medical chain from which you might call 113. The development of it, the development of specialisation in Norwegian hospitals, and the reference to best-aided hospitals, are examples of the governance and organisation of the policy authorities in the ministry and of the regional health enterprises that see the regions in the context. Then it is clear that in many areas of the desire to use more resources, even better capacity in emergency medicine and medical care could be sought in many hospitals. We're working on that. We are among those countries that can work to distribute growth in the health sector, while in other countries it is about building up. In this area, too, we want to strengthen our skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e193	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e196	As mentioned above, in 2008, the Health Inspectorate presented a report that showed poor governance and management and that sometimes unresponsive patient treatment was given in the emergency wards. The report came as a result of a nationwide review in 2007. The then State Council Brustad assured us at the time that she would take the necessary steps to ensure professionally sound conditions. In the 2009 Regional Health Enterprise Mission Document, this was specifically mentioned. Does the Government consider that the 2008 Supervisory Report has been followed up by the Government in a timely, effective and sound manner that has produced good enough results for patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e203	I'm serious. This has happened a lot since the report was presented. The representative here referred to some of them. These include: addressed in the business meetings and in the mission documents – and underlined there – and systematic measures are being put in place in the regional health establishments to improve the management, management and operation of the emergency recipients. These findings were also followed up in other meetings, requiring systematic action to improve the situation in emergency response facilities to be implemented. Then it is that, in terms of the competence requirements we have to impose at reception, who is going to be there, waiting for the work that is now being done – and with the entire specialist training in the medical profession. Then we see that large hospitals with large emergency facilities, such as Ahus, St. Olavs Hospital and Oslo University Hospital, go in front of them in the way that they organize the hospital receptions. I think we have to admit that in a country like ours, a large hospital with a lot of emergency needs to be organized differently from a small hospital with less emergency facilities. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e212	Per Arne Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e216	In addition to the fact that the then Brustad State Council was to take action as early as 2008, a circular from the Department last year shows that the tour service has — and will continue to have — the primary purpose of qualifying newly trained doctors for professional life. They also say: It is very important that you get work experience under skilled guidance. Now we see that maybe as many as over 70 pst. I would like to ask the Council of State: what will he do to ensure that these doctors who are under qualification and need skilled guidance are not left on their own for work in a critical situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e223	It's not like that 70 pst. by Norwegian emergency services at all times have a tour operator alone. As I understood the report yesterday, this fact was gathered in the evening and at night at all the hospitals in Norway – just so that picture is clear. In the case of the large emergency receivers, the ones that are running all day, it's not like that. It is also true that where there are tour operators on duty, and they are only physically, they have access to the rearguard – access to experienced doctors. Everyone should have it – an assistant doctor and also a superior. This is usually the case – from the AMK centre or others involved in referring to an emergency department – that a hospital is preparing to accept patients. When things go wrong, as they did in Ringerijk Hospital, the supervisory authorities are involved, they should. That is regrettable, and then you have to learn from that experience. The ratio is that these tournaments receive professional follow-up. They have access to professional support. It also had this doctor at Ringerijk Hospital, but one did not get access to another doctor. It is reprehensible, and those conditions must be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e232	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e235	It's alarming numbers we've been sent to the emergency wards at the country's hospital. According to the Norwegian Medical Association Journal, increased participation of an experienced superior in emergency reception has a bearing on quality. But already during the Napoleonic wars, you had to sort out which patients needed immediate help. They were the ones who needed emergency care, they were the ones who could wait, and they were the ones who shouldn't have treatment. This assessment of the urgency is also used in the acute recipients. It's about the organisation of our hospitals, but it's also about human resources. My question is: is it that a lack of priority for patients in emergency reception is also about the lack of priority for hospitals in government budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e244	I do not think the representative comes from a party that can criticise the fact that we do not give priority to hospitals in the budgets. We deliver hospitals in an economic balance with an activity growth that is fully funded. The representative's party did not do that when it was under government responsibility. So the answer to that question is no. I don't think during the Napoleonic wars it was such that all the emergency receptions had superior in front. But even now, under peaceful conditions in Norway in 2013, I don't think we're going to get there either, that in all Norwegian hospitals at all emergency receptions all day long, there's a superior in front. In the large hospitals that have daily reception and experience with it, they now put together teams that have a heavy professional competence to accept what they are expected to receive. Then there are other hospitals that experienceably receive far fewer – they are rigged for it. Then we're going to work on improving the skills, the technology and the warning that makes it a good sort of thing, if it's going to be hospital treatment. It should preferably happen before coming to the emergency room. When you arrive at the emergency room, you should be sure that there is a good professional judgement on the basis of which the decision is based.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e253	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e256	My main question goes to the Minister of Finance, so there's a slightly different war I'm going to talk about. Before Easter, there was an important Supreme Court judgment, namely the judgment in the so-called Røeggen case – which, for his part, has been perceived as a war against the partially state-owned bank DNB. As we know, the bees were offered – not to say, thrown after him – complicated savings products that he received from the bank to borrow money to buy. Then it turned out, as many others have also experienced, that the gold presented by the bank was greystone. What had been good customer guidance for many years became customer guidance. The sentence is unusually clear. The Supreme Court says that when the basic prerequisites for investment in this way have failed, the contract must be set aside under the contract law, § 36. If you know that paragraph, you know that there's going to be a lot of work to do before it's set aside after this. The Supreme Court further states that the contract must actually be set aside in its entirety. My questions are: Why has it been so tame from the government after this verdict has been passed? What does the government think about what DNB has done? Does the judgment provide any basis for reflection on the part of the responsible authorities? For example, you want to do this. look at the Christian People's Party's proposals, which we have promoted in order to strengthen consumer rights in precisely this type of case?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e269	I agree with the representative Syversen that the judgment given in the Supreme Court just before Easter was an important judgment in a major and important case in principle. It will be able to work in the future in the sense that there are a number of issues for consideration in the Financial Complaint Study where decisions are pending in the Røeggen case. As demonstrated by the representative, a substantial part of the reasons given by the Supreme Court is that the information that formed the basis for the investment decision made by Røeggen was a failure. This happened a while ago. In the meantime, we have strengthened the regulatory framework, including: with regard to the obligation to provide good and factual information. We have made changes in the way one should organise the advice. We have made changes in bonus schemes to make smaller connections between sales of that kind of product and bonus. So an assessment you can do, is that if those rules were in place at the time when Røeggen got his advice, this case would probably not arise. But it's an important principle decision Supreme Court has taken, and I'm glad that it builds up to the extent of the work that the government has done in the meantime, namely to strengthen the legislation in that area in order to strengthen the situation and position of consumers. For my part, I am very concerned about further strengthening the position of consumers. On this background, one is now going through, for example, The work of the financial complainant, to make consumer opportunities even safer and stronger, for example: banks selling the type of products.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e278	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e281	It must be a big paradox that if this bank had been a foreign bank in which the Pension Fund was supposed to invest, it might not have been possible to do so, or it might have been necessary to withdraw the investment, because there had been serious violations of fundamental ethical guidelines. We do not have that legislation for state investment in Norway, but it is a great paradox for me. I record that the council has no notice to give to DNB, which is thus a partial state-owned bank, while the man in the street must go all the way to the Supreme Court to get what he is entitled to. Unfortunately, the Consumer Council has carried out a survey showing that savings products are still being offered, of a slightly different nature, even encouraging loans to make the same investments in the future. So my question is, isn't it time for a little activity from the government, beyond what the council said?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e288	It is important to be aware that this case has been in the legal system since 2006. The robber won the District Court, lost to the Law of Lawyers in September 2011 and has won the case in the Supreme Court. The positions took place in 2000. A good delivery gel for both state councillors and politicians is that as long as a case is pending in the judiciary, neither a state council nor other politicians should go into the matter and put ‘leaders’ on what had to be done in the judiciary. However, my main point is that from 2006 onwards the legislation relating to the advice and sale of complex products has been tightened up by amendments to the law, regulations and circulars of the Financial Supervisory Authority, and the Financial Supervisory Authority has been informed to follow this up in order to safeguard the legal position and position of consumers in relation to that type of product. So the government has shown activity, and we're going to be exhibiting activity in the future too, because consumer protection is very central to my work on these questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e296	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e299	It is true, as the Minister of Finance says, that as long as a matter goes on in the legal system, politicians should have the good rule of being careful. But now this case is decided in the Supreme Court, and that's what's the starting point for us to ask if the government has a message to come with, and that might be the time for the government to mark what you think about the conditions that are pointed out here. In order to follow up on the previous question by the representative Syversen: the Consumer Council has recently shown that banks and investment companies continue to advise customers to borrow money in investment products, pledge housing, etc. So to ask in this way, does the Minister of Finance think that today's legislation provides sufficient protection for consumers? And what new measures will the Minister of Finance take?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e306	My main point was that if the rules that have been tightened since 2006 had been there in 2000 – when the row was advised to go into these products – it would hardly have happened, because today’s legislation is good in view of the issue in question in 2000. It will always be the case that one has to assess whether a legislative and regulatory framework is sufficient to take care of the regulatory environment. Therefore, and as I said to the representative Syversen, we are now working to strengthen, among other things. the position of the financial complaint subject in the sense that it should take greater account of the legal protection of consumers; We're working on suggestions, and they'll get in place as soon as they're done. In addition, the Financial Supervisory Authority has been informed to follow closely what is happening in this area in the banks. Finally, as consumers, we also have a responsibility ourselves to say yes or no to the advice we had to receive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e315	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e318	Today, the government is sitting on all sides of the table opposite DNB. We see the government as a regulator, which imposes capital requirements, reporting requirements, conditions of competition and consumer protection. Then we see the government as a capitalist and the largest owner, demanding profits and billions of dividends – 12 billion. SEK dividends in the last eight years. And then we see the government -- maybe in the worst four run -- as a populist, criticizing the same rate of interest, criticizing profit margins, criticizing DNB, which it owns 34 pst. to drive a capitalist me. The chairman of the Financial Committee said in the Easter Newspaper that the State was a shareholder, not an activist, in the DNB – in other words, the owners should be passive to management while criticising the decisions of the same management. Does the council feel comfortable sitting on all sides of the table opposite DNB?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e323	It's important for a government council to keep their hats in order. It is the intention of this Council of States to do so, and he does so — both on the visible hats and on the hats used in the roles of regulator and as the proposer of laws and regulations concerning the financial industry. The DNB is owned by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, precisely because there are different ‘ hats’ that dispose of the various aspects of the law and ownership. That was something we deliberately did when one in its time decided to keep a large share in DNB. It was a broad political desire to have a large ownership of the country's largest bank in the extension of what happened in the context of the banking crisis we had early in the 1990s, when DNB went from being a 100pst. state-owned bank to become a bank where the state owns 34 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e328	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e331	My question goes to the Minister of Health and Care. Compared to Sweden and Denmark, freedom of choice in the care sector in Norway is low. In Denmark it's all 95 pst. of the municipalities that have provided significant freedom of choice in the care sector, while in Sweden there are at least more than half of the municipalities. In comparison, it's only 4 pst. by Norwegian municipalities which have granted this type of freedom of choice. Experience in Sweden shows that a total of four out of five residents can choose between two or more service providers in the care sector. The Swedish model has provided a huge variety of services for the benefit of service users. Over 80 pst. by those undertakings, the female owner or the Executive Director. The Swedish Nursing Association started its own organisation to assist the union’s members who wanted to start their own business. The head of this organisation, Lisbeth Wigström, declared in 2007 the following: ‘This was a new way of thinking: a trade union movement that thought entrepreneurship.’ Further: ‘It shows the diversity of care, increases freedom of choice — both for patients and staff. It is both a provider of care services and has become a new career path.’ This is well said by a trade union leader. In Sweden, it is voluntary to make use of such schemes. In Denmark, it is mandatory for municipalities to facilitate free user choice. For the last four years, it's been over 30 pst. increase in the number of older people using private services. In Denmark, the Social Democratic Government has chosen not to reverse this system. They are now working on a proposition to further improve the basis for outsourcing and more use of free user choice. My question to the Council of State is: Why does the Labour Party and the Red-Green Government doubt a free user choice model in Norway that seems to have expired?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e354	I do not feel that we have any doubts about a model. I feel that we are based on a model developed over many years, based on good experience, that international studies show that offering one of the best care sectors compared to other countries – with good offers, with quality, with professional staff who come with education and background to provide good and equivalent services across the country. I believe the principle that I know the representative and I disagree that the municipalities have a primary responsibility here, because they are closest to the citizens and can make the right choices and adapt, is a good principle. This means that we have less – to say – state-specific regulation and designation and fewer provisions on how municipalities should behave. They also behave quite differently. Some have opted for a competitive outlook as a strategy. Some have seen that it has given quite doubtful results, and has taken it back. Someone has chosen to build on a – in my opinion – safe, municipal, publicly funded, offer. Some have extensive cooperation with non-profit organisations. The last thing I'm very much in favour of. We see, for example: that at the Battle of Oslo, the Church's Bymission has built one of the most modern nursing homes we have in the country, for the municipality. It's a kind of cooperation where there's a public responsibility, but there's a strong, volunteer player inside. The fact that people in Denmark and Sweden make their experiences is very important to me, because this is a country that is natural for us to go to and learn from. We gather many interesting experiences from Denmark about how they solve care tasks. But I find no compelling reason to say that the way they have chosen to make their mix of private/public funding or organisation is something we should automatically take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e363	I notice that the Council of State continues to hesitate in terms of challenges in bringing private into these services. I think it is a strange claim that there have been so many dubious results that you have therefore chosen to go away from this. There are very few experiences we've had in Norway in this area, all the time it's only 4 pst. by the operators who are exposed to competition. It is natural to ask some questions as to why freedom of choice has worked well in Sweden and Denmark, which are countries we often compare with, when we hear from the Norwegian social-democratic government that freedom of choice is almost a problem and a challenge in terms of health and care services in Norway. We facilitate freedom of choice in many areas, but we should not give the users of health and care services that right – even if we also want it to be publicly funded. I want to underline that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e372	I don't doubt anything. I am quite anchored in an experience and a political approach for which there is a broad majority in Norway. I know that the representative does not share that approach. Let me turn it over and say it's up to the municipalities to think how they're going to organize this. Municipalities where there is a majority far from the majority I represent have chosen not to engage in extensive privatisation and outsourcing, so-called freedom of choice. I think the safe thing for older people who need the kind of care services is that we have a law that gives municipalities responsibility for making good offers, adapted to the situation of the elderly. What's exciting about this policy for the future is whether we take on board ourselves and recognize that older people are as diverse as the representative and I – with different needs, different life situations and different offers to meet the needs of help. Here I believe in a strong public responsibility, on a strong community responsibility – that it is the right recipe for solving that task.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e382	There will be follow-up questions – first Jon Hunter Gåssvatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e385	Gro Harlem Brundtland promised in 1985 an elderly care service that would make it good to grow old. Then came Grete Knudsen, Werner Christie, Gudmund Hernes and Hill-Marta Solberg, who, in the 1990s in turn, promised uniquely in nursing homes to everyone. It was even said that it was a human right to have exclusive space. Jens Stoltenberg said in 2005 that he would not give a penny in tax bills until it came out of the care of the elderly – and followed up by giving increased tax deductions for the union quota. In 2009, we heard that anyone in need of hospitalization would get it. Something else we can't accept, said Stoltenberg. What will the Minister of Health say to all the patients and employees who, in their choice of choice, have been fooled by all the elderly care commitments, which the Labour Party has later broken? Now we see monopolistic states. Old, sick people have to thank for the offer they receive – user participation and freedom of choice are little real. After all, that's all the seniors' last year of life it's all about. If that time isn't going to be good, we won't have a chance to do it again. I hear the council say he's open to solutions. What will the Workers' Party change in its parental care policy, which implies that the party deserves renewed trust?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e392	I thank the representative for his belief in and wish to re-trust the Workers' Party. I think we should take care of that. I would like to say that it is sad for the debate that a picture is being drawn of a misery situation in Norwegian care for the elderly. I'm approaching that problem with a motivation that we can constantly improve and have great ambitions to be able to lift, especially in terms of quality. I think it's good to get old in Norway. We have to compare with other countries, and we have to compare with what we've seen over time. I believe that the statements made by the Labour Party over the years are very good. So what's the recipe for the future? In a few weeks' time, on behalf of the government, I will present a communication on innovation in care. It's going to be based on exactly what I was into for the representative Jensen, that we see the diversity of the elderly, that we see that there are also individual needs, that we can't think that all the elderly mean care, institution. Older people mean a diversity where you have to be able to organize according to their needs, just as the representative and I, in our life-stage, have. I think we're going to have a lot to discuss when that message comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e403	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e406	Freedom of choice requires, inter alia: ensuring that if you choose to live at home, there is a sick home area ready at the time you get so sick that you can no longer live at home. If we look at developments in recent years – in 2010, 2011 and 2012 – we see that the growth in the number of new lucky days places has fallen. Since 2008, there have been 69 more sick homes in Norway. Since 2008, there have been a total of 1,645 places in good health. If the Council of State believes that the development we are now seeing, with fewer and fewer new places more places each year, is a development that meets the increased challenges such as: The interaction reform involves for municipalities, where several patients are released more quickly from hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e413	We have one major challenge to address, in the form of an increasing number of younger users in the care service – people under the age of 67. They also have the right to be seen and to be met. It's kind of good that they're seen and met, but it can be a challenge given the overall need. I believe that we are well on track to meet the plans we have in the 2015 care plan for the renewal, refurbishment, rehabilitation and new nursing homes, in terms of the training of personnel in this sector – 70–80 pst. now has higher education — and, in the case of raising of dementia care, where 80 pst. has completed training for demens Spaces. We're going to have a marking of it later today. I think we're basically good on track. But this is a sector with major challenges. In particular in eight to ten years they will report demographically. That's why I'm concerned that we have to start making decisions now for what comes after 2020. I believe that the big message I have mentioned could contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e422	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e425	In response to the representative, Höie, the Council of State said that we have one major challenge; and that is that those under 67 years of age who need help are seen and met. If we look at the Fafos report on the number of annual shifts in municipal care over the last 20 years, it is precisely this group that has led to an increase in annual work, because we have seen that institutional services for the elderly are being reduced and that fewer older people over 80 years now receive home services than before. So it's those under 67 years of age who've been seen. I'm glad they're being seen, but I think we'll also see those who are over 67 years old, because that's what the Council of State has said in the past: we're different, and we have different needs. What will the Council of State do to ensure that we have an elderly care for those over 67 years of age, who are qualitatively good, and for those under 67 years of age, in view of the statistics submitted by Fafo to the KS?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e432	Just to clear the concepts, we're not going to care for the elderly under the age of 67, but we're going to take care of them. This is a group that has had clear needs for care in many areas and has now been met. I have pointed out that it is a challenge for the group over the age of 67, who also receives some of the same kind of care. When you travel around a nursing home in Norway, you meet it. Parental care is a high priority in Norwegian municipalities – that is my experience. They also know what demographic developments we face ten years in time. It requires good planning, and it requires finding the right combination of home services, technological organisation, so that you can live in your own home, transition to nursing homes that also make it easier to manage yourself, and – for those who need it, we will see it with an increasing population of dementia – good health places. All of this is going to work together. It will require a strong public community economy and a strong ambition to improve quality and competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e439	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e442	From value-sharing to value-sharing: we can still rejoice that very much is going well in Norwegian business, especially in the oil-related part of industry, which has huge tasks and is driven by a high oil price. At the same time, there are reports of firms struggling, bankruptcies and the deflagration of jobs exposed to competition other than oil and gas — the last South Cell on Tofte, which joins the range of woodworking enterprises to be closed down. The Minister of Industry has warned that we are going to lose thousands of jobs, the Prime Minister has rightly pointed to the crisis in Europe, but the euro crisis can, with respect to reporting, do very little with the Minister of Finance – even a Norwegian Minister of Finance. What should be addressed by the Minister of Finance is questions that he can address, namely, costs and demands that the government has imposed on Norwegian jobs, which are in a tough competition with the rest of the world. The compensation of employees is now 69 pst. higher than our competitors, transport costs are higher, innovation rates are lower, and strange taxes and demands are on top. The right has repeatedly challenged the government and proposed the development of a long-term strategy to strengthen the knowledge and competitiveness of businesses. These proposals have been consistently phased out by the government with long moulding lists. Does the Minister of Finance now see the need to reduce the burden on competitive jobs and strengthen the competitiveness of businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e450	Yes, the Minister of Finance does, and the government does. The most important contribution we can make on a more general basis is to pursue sound, long-term and predictable economic policies. That's point one, and we're going to keep going. I am not going to discuss the old discussion of what is going to happen if there is a change of government with the Progress Party in government – we have to leave that behind now – but the predictability of economic policy is important. In addition, this government will continue to invest in education, continue to invest in research. We have over-completed the current transport plan, and the government will shortly submit a roll-out of the transport plan. We come back to the content and concrete measures in that context, but I do not reveal any great secret when I say that it will still be a large and heavy stakes area for this government. In areas by region, we will contribute to building greater competitiveness into the Norwegian economy. We had a debate in Stortinget yesterday about the possibility of setting down a productivity commission, which was rejected, but we want to continue working on issues related to wage formation. Among other things, we need to do this. take into account the position of the Holden III Committee, which has been given the task of looking at wage formation linked to productivity development and the role of the front line industry in order to be able to settle wages more effectively in the future, taking into account the strength of the mainland industry and the non-competitive industry. There is a wide range of measures on the table to which the government will return in turn and order, on the first occasion in the national and state budget for 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e459	Just let me say that keeping order in the Norwegian economy – which characterises the Right – is not just about how much money you spend, but also about how you spend the money. The government has agreed that oil money should be used to invest in infrastructure, knowledge and growth-promoting tax reductions. The Minister of Finance confirms in many ways what was my conclusion, namely that when the government is challenged on these issues, long lists of boasts are answered. The Minister of Finance's answer is that one should only continue on the same track, but he answered yes to the question of whether he will bring relief to these companies. Let me ask you a few specific questions: is that the depreciation rate? Is there a property tax that affects the industry? Is this about the property tax? Is it about exploiting the opt-outs of the Temporary Agency Directive, as our neighbouring country has done, or is it about Norwegian length and weight restrictions that paralyze the transport of timber? [[The President clubs.]] This is about hundreds of millions for these businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e466	The President asks the representative, Mr Sanner, to stay within the allotted speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e469	I agree that it is not only important that you keep track of the money used, but also important what you spend the money on. On the occasion of the day I have returned to Innst. S No 229 for 2000-2001. It is the attitude that deals with the rule of action and that addresses new guidelines for monetary policy that came in 2001. Just to establish it: in the majority comment on page 6 of that statement, everyone, except the Advance Party and SV, stresses that ‘the growth capacity of the mainland economy determines welfare development’ – I fully agree. That's it. That's it. ‘Despite developments in petroleum prices and production, the value added in mainland Norway will be much higher than the revenues from the petroleum sector. This means that decisive emphasis must be placed on measures to promote value creation and productivity in both the public and private sectors.» I fully agree with that, and that's what this government is actually doing. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e479	It's about time. Gunnar Gundersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e484	We can take a very concrete example that the Council of State knows well: Moelven Industrier, who is right in the neighborhood from where he comes from. The special thing about Moelven Industrier is that they process the same raw materials on both sides of the border. The director of Moelven Industrier was out a short time ago and said that they had doubled their activity in Sweden, but in Norway the business was in stable side rental, at best. They maintained their business, but they did not expand. This is because of many of the very special Norwegian cost challenges you have, not only in terms of a generally high cost level, but also quite peculiar cost disadvantages as we see. Now I hear that the Council of State acknowledges that this is a challenge, but does he really believe that these are the challenges that have been given sufficient focus and where have been properly prioritised in the annual budgets? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e489	I've spent an unusual amount of time in the last four years taking these questions up and working with them, because I'm busy with the competitiveness of the Norwegian mainland industry. And the most important thing, to repeat that, is the general economic policy, and in addition what you do to improve the education system, to expand infrastructure – a bet that is far beyond what the previous government, the Bondevik government, had on the wallpaper. One has to keep working on that kind of question. So I am concerned that, through cooperation with the social partners, we need to get a stronger anchor around the front line, in other words that those in the competitive part of the industry get a stronger position in the payroll business. That's exactly why we've reduced the sample to go through the role of the front line. So it has to be worked in several sectors to address this challenge. That's what this government is doing -- there's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e496	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e499	The Progress Party will keep order in the Norwegian economy. I don't think someone keeps order when someone lends their own oil money to other countries to 1 pst. interest, and borrow other people's money to build Norwegian roads to 3.5 pst. interest, as this government does. It is not a responsible economic policy, although it is in line with the rules of action. The Progress Party has said that we want a rule of action that limits the growth of public consumption, but we disagree with today's government and the Right, which will have a rule of action that limits the possibilities of accelerating socially profitable projects, which we could fund with our own oil money. This government has said that there are no indications of how oil money is used in the state budget. This has been answered in white by the Minister of Finance – during a period we have had persistently increased expenditure on consumption, but underinvestments, according to the Governor of the Central Bank. National transport plan boasts the Minister of Finance of being overfilled. At the same time, we know that only 80 pst. of the projects to be financed by it are under way. So we've spent all the money, but we haven't started all the projects. Is there a good way to deal with taxpayers' money and to be responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e510	It is enough that the framework governs most areas of the economy. This means that within that framework, priority needs to be given to projects in both transport and other areas. What is the challenge of the economic policy of the Progress Party is that they do not really want an action rule. What characterises all the proposals made by the Progress Party in this Chamber has only one purpose: to increase the use of money, and to do so in ways that circumvent the rule of action and thus contribute to greater uncertainty about the development of the Norwegian economy, greater uncertainty about the predictability of economic policies and thus greater uncertainty for the jobs of the competitive sector. It's going to be interesting to see what comes out of a joint government with the Right and the Advance Party, but we're going to do everything we can to prevent that from happening after the 9th of September election.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e519	Now you were talking nonsense about the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e525	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e528	In the long term, the situation in Europe will probably lead to even more expensive production in this country, and it will be all the more important to have good productivity in our own country. I want to come back to the rule of action and its origin, at the setting, from which the Council of State has several quotes. Would it not be all the more important in the future to go back to what was the origin of the use of oil money, just to strengthen infrastructure, higher education, research and to provide tax relief that can strengthen Norwegian business and thus jobs? Won't that, after all, now I don't ask the question of being rhetorical once, be something the government should actually be concerned about in the years to come? – If it gets to sit for a few years, then – it probably doesn't, but...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e535	Now I did not get the last representative from Syversen, but I will reply anyway. That's exactly what the government is doing. But that there is disagreement in the Storting between the opposition and the position on the arrangement of some budget lines is nothing new. It is not that the fasitite is in this setting, which I have in front of me here. It was also an important premise when one wrote the recommendation that any generation should have the opportunity to make their decisions in Stortinget about what they want to spend the money on. But it gives a more general direction for what's important. It's pointed at. ‘... measures that can increase productivity, and hence growth capacity, in the rest of the economy.’» That's also the government's concern. That's what the government is working on every day. And we see, for example, now that productivity trends over 2012 have re-examined, and that is good. But we're going to work on these questions because it's becoming increasingly tougher for Norwegian business to compete in an increasingly tighter international market.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e547	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e550	What is important for competitiveness, as asked by the representative Sanner, is the availability of skilled labour. A lot has been addressed in the perspective notice, which is currently being treated. Norwegian Industry has stated that labour immigration to Norway was one of several contributors to the financial crisis not hitting Norway harder than it did. A month ago, the Left promoted a representative proposal here in Stortinget to streamline labour immigration to Norway through simple rules, better practices and faster procedures. So my question to the Minister of Finance is, is this what he will recommend to the Workers' Party people in this Chamber to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e557	Now it is not my particular field of labour market issues – it belongs to another state council, but let me say the following: the labour migration we have seen from 2005 onwards has made an important contribution to the growth we have had in the Norwegian economy. So there is no doubt that the labour immigration, the opportunity we had through the enlargement of the EU and a larger EEA area in terms of labour has contributed to growth and prosperity in Norway. That's good. Then I fully agree that having well-qualified labour is a way of meeting the cost challenges, a way of working with productivity – what we are unable to take on costs, we must be able to address the quality, competence and knowledge of the labour force. So one of the most important things, which not only the government can work on -- now there are several issues about this in the spring or in the course of the year -- is actually developing and processing the workforce. Maybe that's the foremost task we have as politicians in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e564	The oral question procedure is now over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-03.ana.ud482e577	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
