ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e26	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e29	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I have delighted to make proposals for the permanent protection of the marine areas outside the Lofoten, the Western Seabed and Senja.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e34	The representative, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e37	On behalf of Morten Ørsal Johansen, Åge Starheim and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to strengthen Norwegian language in public services.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e42	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e54	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e61	The emergency number 110 is a number that we call when the seriousness arises — acute illness, accidents — and it is a service that the population is totally dependent on working well. It is also a service that has high confidence in the population. Now the situation is that the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has proposed a whole new structure for the 110 Centrals. That proposal comes at the same time as a Drammen pilot project on a common emergency number. So this is a project that has not yet been evaluated. It is in my opinion unfortunate to start that kind of reorganisation before you have seen all the needs of the emergency services together. The government has announced a performance reform for the police to look at structural interventions there. Then the government has notified an emergency message, which is exposed. My question is: Is it not natural to see the overall preparedness together, and also to take into account the evaluation and evaluation of the Dramen pilot project, before the possible conclusion is reached on the implementation of a major reorganization of the 110 centre? It is also a fact that the debate around the AMK centres creates a lot of discussion, not least in health-care environments that are concerned that this service must offer the same confidence in the future as it does today, and there are strong professional objections from several health services to the consequences of a possible merger. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to reflect a little bit about what it is the government is now really looking at relating to these issues, all the time there are announced a number of different issues and at the same time embarking on a number of projects that seem to have conflicting interests in them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e72	First, I would like to thank you for the question. It is very important that we have full attention to preparedness, and it is not that we – although it is now beginning to be a while since July 22, 2011 – reduce our attention to preparedness and how we can strengthen and improve it. We are then faced with at least one challenge and one dilemma, and it is true that there are many processes, evaluations and forecasting messages that are being carried out, that are being notified and that are coming. But at the same time, it is important that we do not stop all the measures pending these processes. We believe that it is important that we act in the areas on which it is based. For this reason, it is already before, for example. The July 22 Commission presented its report, implemented significant actions. Significant actions have been implemented in the budget for this year in areas where we are confident that it is right to carry out reinforcements, regardless of the evaluations and the whole process. So we can't wait with actions until all evaluations, grossing-up messages and processes have been completed. It is now the case that the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has sent out a proposal at the hearing. It has its reason that July 22nd showed us that we need more robust centers and a review of how they work. It is the Ministry of Justice and Defence that is the appeal body, so that if there is a great deal of disagreement or protest against any of those proposals, we will be able to get them dealt with. But I think it's a little too early to say that we're not going to make any changes, even though we also have whole processes and come up with big messages.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e81	The last thing I agree with the Prime Minister. Wherever it is right, necessary and natural to make changes, they should come, and preferably as quickly as possible. But in the case of a possible conversion of the 110-centrals, people in everyday life are not primarily concerned with major terrorist attacks. It's about people's everyday lives. This is about the safety of getting the fastest and best follow-up available, with possible pre-medical follow-up, etc. in the event of a traffic accident or acute illness. What creates uncertainty, far into the medical disciplines, is that the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness sends this out before the results of the pilot project that is now under way in Drammen. That trial project alone creates a lot of debate, because many are opposed to the aggregation of emergency numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e88	We're talking about at least two things now. One thing we're talking about is the question of whether to merge the emergency numbers into one emergency number. There I have recorded that there are very strong opinions. Some people think that we should do as other countries do, for example. USA, and have one emergency number, whether it's fire, health or police. It's easier to remember a number. Others believe that this will weaken preparedness. I listen in and out to both professional environments, who have very different opinions about whether we should have one or more emergency numbers. Then we've decided to do an experiment in the Drammen, and we should do it before we conclude on whether to have one or three emergency numbers. The second question we're discussing is whether there should be fewer 110 centers. So there it is that the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness has authority, authority, to determine the number of centres. Many believe that it is necessary to reduce the number of centres to increase robust and better manned centres. Others think that a lot of centers are important. There's the situation where the director can make his decisions. If you disagree, you can appeal to the department, and then the department must assess it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e95	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e98	It was interesting to hear the Prime Minister say that DSB has sent out a proposal to merge 110 centres at the hearing. I know there have been so-called dialogue meetings. They haven't been perceived very much as dialogue meetings, they've been perceived as DSB having decided and just said that it is, whether you want it or not. However, on 26 December 2012, the government set up a selection to go through the organisation of the fire and rescue facility, which is due to come back in December 2013 and decide on the organisation of the 110 emergency call centre. Can the Prime Minister be satisfied that 14 days after the government brings down a sample to be returned, which is to be interdisciplinaryally composed, DSB decides that they do what they want and that they do not care about the working group that the government has set up?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e105	I think I have to stress the following: in terms of the number of centers, the directorate has the authority to decide. If one disagrees with those decisions, it can be appealed against, and then they will receive political treatment in the Ministry of Justice and Defence. As far as I have an overview, we have not got such a case to be dealt with so far, but if we do, of course, the Department and the Minister of Justice and Security will have to deal with it properly. The Minister will then make an assessment of this issue. So I stress again that there are many who believe that there are professional reasons to have fewer but more robust and better manned centres. I accept that someone has a different view of it, and that is why we are waiting for complaints until they might have to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e112	Anders B. Werp – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e115	There is an important question raised by the main questioner here. I understand the Prime Minister's answer to that that there are many good reasons to make these assessments. Nevertheless, it is important to ask some critical questions, because what we need in these questions is less uncertainty and not more uncertainty. Then there are things about this process so far that indicate that the uncertainty has increased and not diminished. Then the question becomes from my point of view to the Prime Minister: how does the Prime Minister consider reducing the uncertainty that many communities now experience in this process? The process has not been completed – I interpret the Prime Minister there. But the uncertainty has increased, and we don't have to experience it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e123	The aim of what is now being done is to improve preparedness and strengthen the centres. Then there are several things we are discussing. It's a question of having one emergency number. It is tried in the Drama, and I will not conclude until we have gained experience with it. Then we discuss many other questions, including: whether there should be fewer 110 centres. There's the directorate's professional assessment – I haven't gone into it – that we're going to get stronger, better centers and better security with more people on the centers, that's fewer centers, but with increased staffing. So I accept that you can have different assessments of it. The government has not gone into that question, because there is a question attached to the directorate. But then we say that if you disagree and there's going to be a complaint, it's going to be dealt with in the department. Then we have to be neat about the rules, and then we have to decide on that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e132	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e135	I am pleased that the Prime Minister is so clear that this is not a decision that has been made. What I think is important to come up with, and as the Prime Minister pointed out, is that there is a project going on, and we need to see that evaluation. The Djørv Commission clearly pointed out that we need more robust centres. We have to listen to that. That means that it might be quite right to reorganize the 110 centrals and get larger, more robust units. But it is also true that when you also discuss whether there should be a new common emergency number, it means that there are many different projects going on at the same time. Therefore, my concern is that there are both large shifts of personnel, i.e. competence, and large investments in new buildings, which are demanding – in order to reorganise in just one year, if necessary. So between Drammen, where one proposal is, and Stavanger, where the next proposal is, it is a region. We sometimes experience that the South may be a little forgotten, so I want to remind the Prime Minister of that region as well. Does not the Prime Minister really agree that it is more important to do everything together instead of doing this big grip now, and possibly a new one in a year?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e146	What I tried to underline in my first answer is that in these kind of large complexes that are preparedness and various emergency centres, we are faced with a balance between looking at everything in context, waiting for all evaluations, all processes – then things will easily take time – and doing something that we think is right anyway. I think you'll never find an exact balance point there, but with regard to what we're now discussing, there's an extensive process going on in the question of aggregation to one emergency number. I stress that no political decision has been made. We've decided that we should have a try. To the second question, whether we should have fewer 110 centres, the Directorate has authority to determine it, with appeals to the Department. It's not like we've gone into the directorate's assessment. They've come with their sketch, and then you get to believe what you want about it. So it's going to be treatment in the department if it gets anchored.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e153	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e156	There are now some 270 000 people in line for health care. Many of these are in line for quite simple interventions that can quickly bring them back to work afterwards. Others wait in fear of diagnosis because their regulars have suspected that they may have cancer. What they all have in common is that they are waiting for something that we all agree on is a public responsibility, that it should be part of the public funding of the healthcare system. In our welfare model, we have agreed that those who can pay will be able to pay by virtue of their ability over the tax code, but that everyone will get back according to their needs. Because of the unreasonable waiting time that we currently have, we now see the emergence of a two-fold of our healthcare system. Last week we were told that there has been a five-fold increase in the number of people with health insurance under the red-green government. So now it's 360 000 private health insurance. Only in 2012 it has increased by 20 pst. This morning we woke up to the news of the NRK News today that it is not just for health insurance that people choose to go private. Aleris Health, who is among the biggest drivers of private health clinics in Norway, could tell that those who paid straight out of their own wallet were the ones who used them most in 2012. Their customers spent a total of 246 million. DKK on last year’s health care. The right has presented a model where the public takes responsibility for funding, but where we use the capacity in the private sector. The government claims that this will be a cost driver. My question to the Prime Minister is: As long as they are approved by the government for treatment, and that is capacity, is it that the health service queue is a saving measure for the Workers' Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e171	What is very important is that people who need treatment get treatment, and that we take the concerns of people who are waiting for treatment, for the most part seriously. This is why we have stepped up efforts significantly within the Norwegian health system – not so that we are satisfied, but so that health services are now delivered of significantly better quality and to a much greater extent than a few years ago. 1.7 million more people are receiving treatment or investigation in specialist health services now than in 2005. The quality of this treatment, based on the international comparisons available, has increased. A few years ago, we were about in the middle of the tree when it came to cancer survival. Now we're in the top of the world. For several cancers, there is hardly any country — if any country at all — where the likelihood of surviving a cancer diagnosis is higher than in Norway. But even though we're among the best in the world, we're not satisfied. We're going to get even better. That's why we do things both in terms of quality and in terms of dealing with multiples. Anyone in need of emergency treatment comes to the hospital immediately, without any waiting time. Then it's those who don't need emergency treatment. There's someone who has to wait. All of them, most of them are treated within the deadlines set. We also use private, but what we're concerned about is that the private should be a supplement to the public, not that the private should undermine the public. We're buying services for about 11 billion. kr from private, among others from Aleris. It's a good collaboration that makes the private and the public work well together. What we are opposed to is a system in which private individuals are automatically financed, while the public has to deal with the financial framework. Then we will weaken the public hospitals, weaken the competence that is there, and not reduce the queues, but increase them because the public gets less money to treat the patients to be treated there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e182	I did not feel that the Prime Minister answered the question. After all, when people are in line – and someone is in line for serious diseases – and buys out of that queue, we actually get a two-way split of our healthcare system: those who either have an employer who can afford and who are willing to pay for insurance, or those who have money themselves, and who can buy out and get faster treatment. When it is said that a solution where the public takes responsibility for those authorised for treatment being given the freedom of choice, it is not a release for everyone, but for those authorised. When the government and the Workers' Party characterize it as a cost-effective problem that we say that the public should be responsible, then my question is: Is it actually that queue is a saving measure? Does the Workers' Party calculate that people with good advice are going out of the public sector and instead buy private services because it means less expenditure by the government? Is it the Community and health policy of the Workers' Party that we should have greater differences?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e187	I fully respect the fact that you are going to be critical of the Norwegian health care system, but you have to be very careful not to talk down the Norwegian health care system and the formidable job tens of thousands of employees there do every day, and the results that are delivered there. This review of private health insurance is a contribution to creating a completely wrong picture of what is actually happening. Private health insurance is a microscopic part of the total effort – 0,14 pst. health expenditure in the country is private health insurance and the rest is publicly funded. You talk like this in a way is a comprehensive arrangement. It's not. Private health insurance covers a very small proportion of health expenditure. The big, the heavy, the serious things are the public that takes, either, and essentially, in public hospitals or by the public buying - 11 billion. kr – from private services in a clean and orderly manner. I'm very much in favour of that. So this notion that private health insurance now has a very large amount, which gives the impression that the public health service is weaker than it actually is, is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e194	Three follow-up questions have been asked, and it is given a chance – first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e197	To show the Prime Minister that this is actually a sign of the two-part division of the Norwegian health service, I will refer to the total of 2,500 drug addicts who are among the 270,000 who are in line. They will never afford to buy treatment themselves, they will never have the opportunity to take out health insurance. Some of them feel that their local environment is starting to escalate to buy treatment, but most of them are in line. All of these have been assessed by a public admission team to need and require treatment. There are a number of treatment institutions that are private, which are approved, which also have a partial agreement with the public, and which have a free capacity, but these patients, in the Workers' Party system, are not given the opportunity to choose treatment in these places, and they are in a long queue. What is the reason why the Workers' Party can sit and see that this is the development of the health care system during their reign?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e205	We have significantly increased efforts in the treatment of drug addicts, and we will continue to increase it. Right-hand talk like they're going to give more money to the health care community in total. They won't. The right has proposed the same framework – actually a little less framework – to hospitals than what we have. What they are actually proposing is that you should be able to go to a private hospital and get the treatment paid, and then the money should be taken from the public hospitals. That's the system of the Right – one frame, but where you're going to get refunded from health care companies the cost you have in a private hospital. This does not mean that more people are treated, it does not mean shorter queues, but it means that the community can no longer make the important choices about what the community is going to spend on. There will be less capacity, less quality, less resources in public hospitals with the scheme proposed by the Right. The Progress Party proposes something quite different, namely free access to the pension fund. So – what to say – irresponsible people don't have the right courage to be, but then they have to admit that what they're proposing is a systematic weakening of the public health system by getting significantly worse funding conditions than the private ones. I'm against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e214	Kari Kjönnaas Kjos – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e217	Whatever the quality, and no matter what the Prime Minister says, there have been 10,000 more in hospital queues every year under the red-green government. Private hospitals have capacity and could take away those who have waited the longest. Does the Prime Minister agree that an additional allocation would give many waiting patients a quick offer on the private market, without losing the public hospitals of resources? And does the Prime Minister then agree that ultimately it costs money to treat people, and that it's really just about appropriations?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e224	I do not agree that it is just about appropriations – it is about appropriations and that we organise hospitals in an efficient and good way. I agree that if we give more money, we can treat more people. That is why this government has granted significantly more money to hospitals and treats considerably more people – 1.7 million more investigations and treatments. What I'm concerned about is that when we grant extra money, the community – the doctors, the professional competence of hospitals and health care companies – will consider: are we going to spend this on our own capacity, in our own public hospital, or are we going to buy a public service? Then we get the best use of the money. What I'm against is a financing model where you can go to the private hospitals and automatically get money, at the expense of the public. I'm against it. This means that it becomes more arbitrary, more random who is being treated, and you do not get the right priorities – everyone must always give priority – and you weaken the professional competence that must be in the public hospitals, which must be responsible for research, which must be educational, and which must not least take on the most expensive and difficult things that private people will never take. I'm too private, but I'm against the fact that the private has to undermine the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e234	Line Henriette Hemdal – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e237	The Prime Minister said in his reply to Mr Solberg’s representative that it is important that those in need of treatment be treated and that this government has significantly increased the resources for drug treatment. Yes, but despite this, drug users are in line today. They want treatment, but there is no room in the public health service. The paradox is that there is free capacity in private and non-profit institutions, which are of good quality and which have good results in this respect in remaining drug-free. Then is my question to the Prime Minister: When you are not going to be satisfied; you are going to increase quality and you are going to increase capacity, as the Prime Minister has also said, how should drug users who are in line today notice this increase in capacity in 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e242	Never have so many addicts been treated in the specialist health service as today – 25 000 people. The number of daily places has increased from 1593 to 1700 in 2011, and the number of outpatient consultations has increased from 154,000 to 307,000, i.e. almost a double. So this is a significant increase in effort, and the waiting times are falling. Then we're not satisfied with it, and that's why there's going to be more money. We increase the appropriations every year, and we buy from private people, not least within the drug field. There is a need for healthcare companies/hospitals to assess what they can do for themselves, and to assess what they can do for the private sector, and to buy to a large extent from the private sector. So we're going to continue this expansion, which gives more people treatment, because it's unsustainable that people who need drug treatment don't get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e247	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e250	Last time the prime minister was in spontaneous questioning, the Christian People's Party asked questions about the state council Ola Borten Moes eager to start oil drilling in Lofoten already in the fall. We thought Ola Borten Moe went too far, and the Prime Minister made an honest attempt to defend his own minister. Now, three weeks later, the roles are turned around. So now it is Norway's most oil-friendly politician, Ola Borten Moe, who thinks the Prime Minister is going too far. That's because the Prime Minister was out in Dagsrevyen and said that he would open up for consistency outside of Lofoten, the West and Senja. The Prime Minister has also said that it is hardly possible to have more knowledge than we now have about the Lofoten and the Vestral, without taking a decision. It means in clear terms that the Prime Minister is planning to open up the areas of oil business. I would like to point out that all the government's environmental services consistently refuse to operate oil in these areas. All fishing organisations say no and all environmental organisations say no. Erik Olsen from the Marine Research Institute said on NRK Monday: Lofoten and Vesterålen are an oasis both in Norwegian context, in North Atlantic context and in world samanhang. This is the site of the biological production in the Barents Sea. It is possible to imagine the type of emissions that we saw in the Gulf of Mexico, outside the Lofoten and the Western Sea. My questions are -- it's very simple: What kind of information is the Workers' Party involved? What knowledge is there that the Workers' Party does not have of the environmental professionals, fishermen or environmental organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e259	I think we're going to distinguish two things, and there was also a point in the previous spontaneous questioning: that's what government policy is, and that discussion that's quite natural, as part of democracy, is going on in the different parties about what is going to be their programs for the next big period. Only with regard to government policy: government policy is defined in the management plan. It clearly implies that there should be no activity in these areas, nor should there be an impact assessment. It's about this accumulation period and of course it's about to take place. In addition, it is also stated in those documents that we facilitate activities in large parts of the Barents Sea. We also distribute licenses in the Norwegian Sea, in areas where we have not previously distributed licenses, both in the Barents Sea and in the Norwegian Sea, and we have started opening processes, among other things. in the Barents Sea south-east, that is, the new areas that came from the dividing line. I think that was a very good solution, where we took care of activity in many places on a Norwegian base without doing anything in the areas of Nordland VI, VII and Troms II. Then there's a discussion about what's going to be the Workers' Party's position before the next election – it's not over. A proposal has been made by the Programme Committee, but I think we should carry out that discussion in the Workers' Party – perhaps in several other parties – and then the Workers' Party should present its position clearly and clearly when we have finished our national meeting. I just want to underline one thing: impact assessment is not the same as an area is being opened, or it's being started activity. We have examples of areas on Norwegian pedestal that are consistent and not open. An impact assessment is an instrument that provides us with systematic knowledge and that is necessary if we are to open up. An impact assessment is a necessary, but not sufficient, condition for the opening of an area. It is only after the impact assessment is available that a decision should be made on this if appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e272	It is also right to say that we have never had an impact statement without the area being opened. It is not necessarily the case that all areas have been opened, but when we have had large impact assessments, we have never had it without some areas being opened. That is to say, when the Workers' Party opens up for consistency around Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja, there is every reason to believe that some of those areas will be opened. What I see as a not quite real communication from the Working Party in this matter is that one makes it so that one first has to make an impact statement, and then one has to decide if it becomes a petroleum business. But the Petroleum Act says that one should go forward in the opposite way. One should be very clear on which area you want to open, according to the Petroleum Act. Before opening new areas for the award of extractors, there shall be a balance between the different interests. Does the Prime Minister agree that the petroleum law is clear?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e282	If you're in any case opposed to opening an area, it's quite right that there's no reason to be in the process of impact assessment. But if you're in doubt and you can imagine opening up the whole or part of the area, you have to be for an impact assessment. My point is not that it is guaranteed that there will be no opening if you examine the impact. My point is that there is a question we are going to address after the impact assessment. It's like that, for example. Troms II, as someone calls it – yes, Troms II [[muttering in the hall]] But I underline, when it is said that the Workers' Party has decided, that the Workers' Party has not decided. The government's policy is firm and the Workers' Party shall adopt its policy at the national meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e293	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first the representative Kjell Ingolf Ropstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e296	It is interesting to hear the Prime Minister say that we have as much knowledge as we can, and at the same time point out that it is important to get more knowledge through impact studies. At least it feels like you have the knowledge, but you have to go over the last obstacle before you can open up – through impact assessments. I noticed that the Prime Minister pointed to Northland VII, which is an area outside of Lofoten. We asked Minister of Oil and Energy Ola Borten Moe about Northland VI, which is another area outside of Lofoten, could be opened immediately, without any impact assessment, since it is based on impact assessments from 1994. Away Moe said it's okay, the government can open up oil exploration as early as October 2013. Can the Prime Minister tell me why Nordland VI can be opened, with impact assessments from 1994, while Northland VII, which was also subject to impact assessments at the same time, in 1994, can't? Why do you have to have an impact assessment in Northland VII, when you choose to say that it's all right in Northland VI, with the same impact assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e305	Finally, this is a political issue. We're going to get information and facts, and then we're going to make a political choice. Then it's important that we do it in a neat way, according to the laws and regulations that apply, for example. in relation to the requirement of impact assessment. What is the difference between Northern VII and Northern VI — at least the outer parts of Northern VI — is that Northern VI is formally opened, while Northern VII is never open. I am concerned that we are not going to take any shortcuts, do nothing in a disputed way in the case, so I do not see at all that there are opened parts of Northern Ireland VI to the autumn. I think we're going to lower our shoulders and take the time we need. At least the Workers' Party must first carry out its process before we decide what we mean. So I think we all see that there's a high level of activity on the Norwegian base. It's a good idea to take this step by step, with lowered shoulders, instead of considering activity there for the harvest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e314	Per-Willy Amundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e317	It may sometimes seem that resistance to oil drilling in areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja areas is slightly inversely proportional to the proximity of the area in this hall. When you record that there is even a proposal to protect the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, at least I get a little scared. I hope we can't take it literally. I was going to give the Prime Minister the opportunity to reflect a little bit on the perspective of value creation and growth in this area. It goes without saying that it can help raise up a continent in a way that you've never seen before. Jobs can be created, knowledge-based jobs, which can contribute to the development of the whole region. I wish the Prime Minister had a little reflection around it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e324	I believe that we have had a wise and thoughtful development of Norwegian pedestal over many decades. There has been a development in which we have progressed gradually, in which we have helped the whole country to enjoy the oil and gas business, but where we have also always taken into account environmental and fisheries interests. That is why we have succeeded in keeping fisheries and the environment with the petroleum industry in the Norwegian Sea, in the Barents Sea and in the North Sea. I have not taken a decision on how to handle it in these areas, but I am concerned about finding that it has had good ring-effects for the whole country. Harstad is today a growing oil city and provides services and knowledge for activities on Norwegian soil. I don't think there's one municipality, at least not in Northern Ireland, that doesn't have deliveries to the oil and gas industry in any way. It's not like you have to do business just off your own coast to enjoy it. We all enjoy the revenue from the single fund, and almost all municipalities in Norway have activities that provide services to the oil and gas business. It has great ring-effects, but it's not an argument to open any area right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e333	Nikolai Astrup – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e336	A comprehensive knowledge acquisition has been carried out by the Prime Minister related to any future off-shore petroleum activity of the Lofoten, the Western Seabed and the Senja. The question to the Prime Minister is whether this acquisition of knowledge weakens or strengthens the environmental arguments for the permanent protection of the Lofoten, the Vestralen and Senja.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e341	First of all, I would like to say that I have not had the opportunity to get involved in all the documentation that has come into my knowledge acquisition. Secondly, I would like to say that for me the question is not permanent protection – it has not been on the agenda of the Workers' Party at least. What has been on the agenda of the Workers' Party is the question of whether we should open this area, or whether it should be unopened, which is something other than permanent protection. I'm busy going through the knowledge acquisition. It will be part of the assessment we should make of whether it should be opened at any time. When I have said that we have a lot of information, that is to say there are very few other areas in which we have so much information, before we start an impact study, which will give us even more information. So the question is not whether we have enough information to make a decision to start business, but whether we have enough information to initiate an impact assessment that will provide us with more information on whether to open the business area. The first question I don't remember was – it was the question of whether we had enough information to start. We don't. But we have enough information to assess the issue of impact assessment in order to get more information – I think we are about to start having.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e352	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e356	I guess it's not surprising that I also ask about the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja, one of the world's most famous landscapes we have in terms of natural resources and living history. The sea areas outside have unique values, such as cold-water coral reefs. We see flocks of echinoderms and large seabird colonies, and the world's largest remaining cod population spawns in this area. The government has had so-called knowledge acquisition, and I think it reinforces all the knowledge we already had. If the accident were to be out here, the disaster would be total to nature and all the renewable industries in the region. This can bring 400 jobs to Troms and Nordland, but we are at risk of 6,000 jobs in fisheries and tourism in the same area. I agree with the Prime Minister on one point and that is that all knowledge is really on the table. We have the knowledge we need to conclude. This is a natural area that is so vulnerable and important to us that we should have permanent protection. In the left, those who have won the battle for the first place in this region believe the same thing. Whether there is an area to be permanently protected at all must be this area with the important natural resources. My question to the Prime Minister is: Based on the knowledge we now have on the table, is there one area where the Prime Minister could not intend to have oil drilling? When we see that this field, which is so important in so many important natural areas and other areas, including in terms of jobs in this region, is not important enough, what is it really going to do to make it important enough to be protected then?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e363	I'm busy being a little neat about roles and when we're going to make what decisions. This government has very clearly stated that we do not have activity in these areas, nor does it have impact assessment. We have facilitated considerable activity elsewhere, in the Barents Sea, in the Norwegian Sea and in the North Sea. We have seen that this has led to a lot of exploration and that new areas that were previously controversial are now available for petroleum activities, for example: in the Barents Sea. In the debate on the Barents Sea, it has been stressed that there is an area where there are large and rich fish stocks – and there are also vulnerable areas – but where we have made very strict demands. We believe that in the Barents Sea and in large parts of the Norwegian Sea we have shown that it is possible to have fishing, the environment and petroleum activities side by side. If we are going to go further in the areas of Nordland VI and VII and Troms II, it depends entirely on what may be the result of an impact assessment, and the question of whether we are going to launch an impact assessment has not been addressed by the Workers' Party – it is a proposal for the national meeting. Then I think it's right that when I stand in the main hall, I relate to what the government's policy is, and then I'll explain the Labour Party's policy when the Workers' Party has made its decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e370	I think it's neat for the Prime Minister to present the government's policy when he's standing in the main hall, to sail if he's on the agenda and to present something that's obviously not government or Labour Party policy, but the opinions of a private member of the Labour Party's national meeting – which I think is quite strange. What the prime minister says here is that you're not basically against drilling anywhere. You could have dug for gold on the Galdhøgg or drilled on the North Pole – there are no principles, only steps and precautions are taken and case-handling done correctly. Away Moe said he'd like to open up Northland VI, which the Christian People's Party asked about earlier. SV has called it a position that is worse than the impact assessment that the Prime Minister stands for. So my question is, does the Prime Minister think it is unproblematic to use a 20-year impact assessment to open an area that has previously been stopped?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e377	I just want to be a little bit careful with answering that question, because I'm a little bit unsure about the pussy. But in addition to the jessen – that is, if you can use an old impact assessment – it is a political assessment of how old an investigation can be. Troms II was successfully investigated in the 1980s. I think it would be easy to argue that if you're going to open up Troms II, and maybe even Northland VI and VII, which are consistent, you have to have new impact assessments for that, at least for the unopened areas. All of this I believe suggests that we now lower our shoulders and take some time. I am concerned that there should be no pressure on decisions, and at least not decisions on activity in the areas, until we have carried out both the professional and legal assessments of the need for new impact assessments in areas that are impact-examined. I also believe that these are examples of areas that can be impact-explained, back in the 1980s, and not opened – so there is a difference. One reason for having a new impact assessment is that technology is changing. There is no doubt that in the 1970s and 1980s it was driving in the Barents Sea very demanding. Now it's less demanding, because you have better technology.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e384	Three follow-up questions are raised – the first question is from Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e387	As has been said several times, the Prime Minister has told Dagsrevyen that he recommends the National Assembly of the Workers' Party to go in for an impact assessment in that area. The left thinks it's a bad idea, given the knowledge that's already taken place. At the same time, the government has also asked for knowledge of alternatives to petroleum activities in Lofoten and there are still reports from the environmental impacts that are not available. So I ask the Prime Minister: does he think it is entirely unproblematic to recommend petroleum activities before all the knowledge that the government has asked for is on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e392	I will once again state: the government's policy is firm. There should be no activity in this area. What is now happening is a discussion in the Working Party and there is no discussion as to whether or not to recommend petroleum activities. No one's going in for it. However, many – or the Programme Committee – are in favour of recommending that possible petroleum activities be investigated. It is an important innovation that relates to the decision-making process. The decisions on activity are to be made after an impact assessment based on all the knowledge we then have, including the use of the knowledge we have done before the impact assessment. I've shown before that there are areas that are impact-examined, that are not open, but I repeat again: if you're absolutely against in any case, of course, there's no need to investigate the consequences either.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e397	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e400	Let me first thank the Prime Minister for his crystal clear answers on how much knowledge we now have. What came out in the answer was that we have enough knowledge to rule out. But the Prime Minister did not have enough knowledge of the knowledge collected to answer the question I asked him: about the knowledge acquired, weakening or strengthening the arguments for activity in the Lofoten and the West Pole. That is why I want to give the Prime Minister a new opportunity to answer this question. Maybe he now remembers more of the knowledge that has been acquired, the knowledge that he uses to base his position on a clear yes to impact assessment, as he promoted on the Dayrevy on 1 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e405	First, I would just like to stress the following: I mean, as I have said several times before, there are two very different questions. That we have enough knowledge to say yes to activity in the area, I mean we don't have either real or formal, really because more knowledge is to be gained as part of a impact assessment, if you want to, and formally because there is also a requirement for impact assessment. Then we have the question whether the old investigations give good enough answers. Well, I'll be a little careful at least to say what the formal answer is, but actually I think there's a need for a new round before you take a final position – at least to those areas where there are very old impact assessments. I believe that what we have now acquired from knowledge, which has been something other than an impact study, has had an extent that makes me at least want to put it this way: it is difficult to imagine that it is possible to order more reports before we have to say that we have enough reports to decide whether to ask for even more knowledge, through an impact study. I stand by what I have said, namely that I believe that we are now starting to get enough knowledge to decide on the issue of impact assessment, but we do not have enough knowledge to decide on whether it should be activity. We're going to do that after an impact assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e414	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e418	At least it was a popular question hour, with simple terms. I am pleased that the Prime Minister is willing to look at particularly the most vulnerable areas, Northland VI, with lower shoulders and at a slower pace than the Minister of Oil and Energy. I have the letter from the oil and energy minister where he answers on behalf of the government and says that it is legally possible to open Nordland VI from the autumn – without an impact assessment. To draw history: In 1994, Northern Ireland IV, V, VI and VII were successfully investigated outside the Lofoot. An elected representative to open large parts of Northland VI, but not Northland VII. The impact assessment was carried out for approx. 20 years ago, it's okay enough to open up the Northland VI legally. So the question is, what are we going to do with Northland VII? The Labour Party says that one who needs a new impact assessment, although Nordland VI has been closed for the past 12 years and has – that is my claim – about the same status as Northernland VII. Nevertheless, my question is: What knowledge can keep the Prime Minister from doing so? What can make him not open?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e425	It's the same kind of knowledge that has kept me in other areas before. I was an energy minister in 1994, when we decided not to open Northland VII, even if it was consistent, and not to open large parts of Northland VI, even if it was consistent. It's always based on a balance of what we know about nature, the environment and fisheries, and what we know about technology. New technologies, the ability to drill from land, higher safety requirements and experience in technology work, provide us with knowledge of how to deal with vulnerable areas. I am quite sure that, for example, having an oil business in the Barents Sea in the 1970s most likely would not have been fair, but having an oil business in the Barents Sea today, I believe, is sound. That's the kind of knowledge we're going to go through in a calm way, and then make a decision. We'll do that if there's a possible decision on impact assessment. It's not understood yet. I believe that we will not be operating in open areas in Northern Ireland VI until the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e434	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e437	In the last week we have been informed that 2,398 people without a legal stay in Norway escaped from reception in 2012, an increase of 30 pst. The Institute of Social Research said in a report that as many as 20 pst. of almost 50 000 asylum seekers who have come to the country under this government, disappeared from reception, i.e. almost 9 000 people. In 2006, the Central Statistical Office estimated that as many as perhaps 10,000–32,000 people were illegally staying in Norway, despite having been refused a residence permit. My questions to the Prime Minister are: Is the Prime Minister comfortable with the fact that this government does not have an overview of how many people are illegal in Norway? Is the Prime Minister comfortable with 2 500 people disappearing from reception and hiding? Is the Prime Minister comfortable with the fact that persons who have been granted asylum or stay on a humanitarian basis can receive permanent residence and even citizenship under false identity, an identity invented to conceal any serious crime in other countries? Is the Prime Minister satisfied or concerned that Norway may be becoming a country where it is easy to whitewash its own identity?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e444	The basic thing is that people who are on the run and who need protection are allowed to stay in Norway. There are conventions and regulations – which I perceive the Progress Party at least says they agree – which means that we need to have an asylum institution, a system in which people can be granted asylum. The next challenge, of course, is that many of those who come to Norway are persecuted, need to stay, are to be protected. About half stay. However, many of those who come to Norway are not persecuted, need no protection and should not be. This treatment is demanding, for example: because many try to hide their identity. We have made a significant effort to improve our ability to reveal people's identity, have created a separate – we call it – ID centre and have built up the capacity of police and judicial authorities to do this. This has helped us to have a faster procedure. The case-handling time in the UDI has fallen considerably, which is now around one and a half years. When someone is in Norway for a long time, it is not mainly due to length of proceedings, but because they refuse to travel after a final refusal. Those who are refused must leave the country. There are two challenges. One is that those who travel voluntarily come almost easily back to all countries. The problem is those who don't travel on a voluntary basis. There are many countries that do not want to accept those who do not come voluntarily to the country – they refuse to accept people who are supplied by the Norwegian police. It is therefore a problem of forced repatriation. However, we have succeeded in increasing the number of voluntary returns. We have significantly increased the number of forced return visits by people who do not have a legal residence in the country. That's good, we're going to continue that effort. The number of asylum seekers has fallen significantly compared to the high level we had in 2008/2009. In Norway, there are more than 9 000 asylum seekers. It's at least a lower number than before. For comparison: In Sweden there are more than 50 000. There has been an increase in both Sweden and Denmark. It says that there may also be a difficult situation in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e457	I don't feel that I got any particular response to whether the Prime Minister was at all concerned about the situation of Norwegian society – the police and others – when so many people are illegally present, people we don't know the identity of, people we don't know the background of. It could be anything from war criminals to criminals in every way possible. I note that the Prime Minister only responds to the fact that this government has put in place measures – despite the fact that the figures are actually getting worse. This government has budgeted for 10 000 asylum seekers in Norway in 2013. So you don't have a lot of ambition to bring down this figure, despite the fact that, according to the population, Norway is the country in Europe that accepts most asylum seekers. I will try to repeat a question: Will this government consider introducing measures – as the rest of Europe does – that are about to shut down, shut down, asylum seekers for whom the identity is not known?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e466	First, I'm worried when we have people in Norway that we don't know the identity of. I am concerned when there are people in Norway who do not have a legal stay here. That's why we're doing something about it. That's why we've significantly strengthened our ability to reveal human identity. We make strict demands on it, and have strengthened our ability to reveal it ourselves. It's precisely because we don't want people to be here without a legal stay, that we have increased significantly the number of forced returns, that we have set a new record in terms of the number of people sent out, and have also been given an increase in terms of voluntary returns. It's just that we're doing something about what we're worried about. So I think the representative should take care of himself a little to exaggerate. We are not the country in Europe that receives most asylum seekers in relation to population. We now see a disturbing increase in our neighbouring country Denmark and, not least, Sweden. Sweden receives something like five times as many asylum seekers as Norway, but they are not five times as many Swedes. So that fraction must probably be worse in Sweden than in Norway. So we have 9,785 asylum seekers. It's significantly lower than in Sweden, but we're worried all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e473	Three follow-up questions have been asked, and there is occasion for this – first Morten Ørsal Johansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e476	I assume that the Prime Minister takes the security of the inhabitants of Norway seriously. A number of countries now do as the Progress Party has proposed several times. I, the undersigned, have just been to Finland, one of the countries which, in order to prevent asylum seekers from refusing to move freely around and live on crime, has established closed reception. The overall political environment in Finland is very pleased with that. My question is: Will the Prime Minister at all consider some form of closed reception in Norway, as soon as the rest of Europe does?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e481	We have to distinguish between two things: it is not prohibited to be an asylum seeker, and there is no country that locks up or imprisons all asylum seekers. It is allowed to apply for asylum, and many of those who come here are entitled to protection and stay. But, of course, if asylum seekers commit crime, they must be punished. Of course, if there is serious crime, they have to go to prison, and there is also an independent reason for forced return. They're going out of the country. That is also why we now have a sharp increase in the number of forced returns, which has also led to more voluntary returns. People who do not have a right of residence and commit a criminal act shall leave the country. We've also strengthened the capacity to just get people who are illegal here, and especially those who commit criminal acts. There's also a closed reception at Trandum – it's called boarding school, but it's at least closed – for the people we're most concerned about trying to avoid transportation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e488	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e492	On the right, we have supported the cuts made by the government in asylum policy, and we want more return agreements and faster return of asylum seekers with rejection. On 5 December 2011, an overall increase decided that applicants for asylum may be required to report or to place of residence where they do not cooperate in clarifying their identity, where there are indications that the foreigner will refrain from implementing a decision involving a return or that the foreigner is an asylum seeker and has committed a prison sentence higher than six months. How many asylum seekers are covered by this scheme with either a notification obligation or a designated place of residence? Does the Prime Minister think that this is sufficient to help asylum seekers return to their country of origin illegally?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e497	The government, together with the Stortinget, has carried out a large number of tightenings. It has helped to reduce the number of asylum arrivals and to increase the number of people who are actually in need of protection coming to Norway. One of the measures was precisely the notification requirement and the requirement to stay in specific places to facilitate the transport of people. I know it's passed, but I don't know the number that's under that scheme. What I know is that the number of shipments has increased significantly. So there is a sharp increase in the number of people who are being sent out by force, and there is a particular increase in criminals who are being sent out by force. We need to strengthen our efforts at this, because we do not want people in Norway who do not have a right to stay or commit criminal acts. At the same time, I think we should recognise the following: when 50 000 asylum seekers come to Sweden, when we are part of an open labour market, part of Schengen, there will always be a situation where people move across borders, without either Sweden, Norway or Denmark – or, for that matter, other Schengen countries – being absolutely sure of where people are. It reinforces the need for cooperation between Schengen countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e504	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e507	I think that part of them that disappears from reception, not only disappears from reception, but also from the country. Some of them also travel to look for happiness in another European country, that is part of the picture. What worries me is how many children — minor asylum seekers — disappear from reception. Over the last ten years, more than 450 children have disappeared that we cannot account for, and there is cause for concern that some of these children may have been exposed to human trafficking. I will ask the Prime Minister what kind of action the government will take to protect these children in a much better way. I also hope that the concern that the Christian People's Party has attached to these children is a concern the government shares, because it may not be that children disappear from reception and we do not know what is happening to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e516	There is every reason to be concerned about particularly lone minor children coming to Norway and seeking asylum. We have strengthened the capacity of both child protection and asylum recipients to do something about this in order to follow up those children. It is voluntary to be in the reception of asylum. That is where asylum seekers are waiting for the application to be dealt with or, where appropriate, after having received a refusal. I do not think it is possible – nor is it right – to make forced stays at the reception. That's why we're at risk of people disappearing, including lonely minors. That's actually the expression that's the fundamental, that many of those who are in reception are so-called duplicates, that is. people who have come to other Schengen countries and are actually moving between different Schengen countries. I am against leaving Schengen cooperation, but I recognise that having open borders makes it difficult to have a full overview of where people are at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e523	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e535	There will be some changes to the configured question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 3, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 4, from the representative of Olemic Thommess to the Minister of Culture, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e557	This question, from the representative of Jan Arild Ellingsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e564	I have a question for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘In an interview with the News Agency on 24 January, the Minister for Oil and Energy said: ‘It is striking how many people are obviously actively wanting to misunderstand what I have said. I am assigned opinions and intentions other than what I have’. The background is Borten Moe's statements at the Sandefjord Seminar: «In the first place, let's get more activity in already opened areas in the northeastern Norwegian Sea, including opened part of the Northland VI. This may take place from the autumn of the year.» What is the Council of State feeling misunderstood?'
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e578	What do I feel misunderstood about? Well, that's what I think is trying to create the impression that I'm an active champion of as fast an advance as possible in the northeastern Norwegian Sea. This isn't right. So let me give you some clarifications and clarifications. During the 33rd oil industry seminar in Sandefjord on 15 January this year, I reviewed the results and prospects for petroleum policy. The Petroleum message was submitted to Stortinget before the summer of 2011. Facilitation of a good long-term development of the oil and gas activities on Norwegian soil is a central theme of the notification. The left joined it. For the north-east Norwegian Sea, the government has decided that during the current large-scale period there will be no petroleum activity in Northern Ireland VI. Nor shall an impact assessment be initiated for unopened parts of the north-east Norwegian Sea. What happens during the next enlargement period will depend on the parliamentary situation after the elections and – equally exciting – programming processes in many different parties, where I record that this theme is up for debate. I have allowed myself to come with my recommendation to my own party. It is clear: not opening new areas during the next enlargement period, no impact assessment of new areas outside the Lofoten, the West Pole and the Senja, but an approach — a cautious approach — which is about using the areas already opened by the Storting, including open part of Northern Ireland VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e589	The left has asked questions about the impact assessments at Nordland VI to the Council of State earlier, and then he answered: ‘I do not find it problematic to deal with the framework for the opening of areas...’. Earlier in the Question Time today, the Prime Minister said it was unwise to use such old impact assessments, a little because technology and other things had changed. Is the Council of State still standing on its own, that 1994 impact assessments are still good enough, and that it is only beginning to drill for the autumn in this area outside Røst? Or does he agree with the Prime Minister, who says it is unwise to use such old impact assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e601	First of all, I think it's a good idea to kill the notion that it can be drilled anywhere in these areas until the fall. There is a lot of work to be done before any drilling can happen. It is also such that it is the operator who initiates, if necessary, that authorisation is to be obtained and a good deal of work is to be done. I think that with the race that is proposed, you'll see some wells ahead of 2020. Then by definition, I always agree with the Prime Minister – of course also on this issue. But what's a fact is that the Storting has opened up these areas. The first areas were opened in 1965. Both the government and the Stortinge have been side by side, and it should not be problematic to deal with the decisions already taken. This area was opened in 1994.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e608	The Prime Minister did not say that it took some time to run equipment – that this would take some time. He said that it is unwise to use old impact assessments, because among other things. technology has changed. It was one of the arguments that was used. When we talk about opening, we're not just talking about how long it takes to run out equipment; we're actually talking about opening up to the fall. This means that the Council of State disagrees with the response given by the Council of State to the Left in writing, that it is not problematic to deal with the framework for opening up areas obtained in the 1994 investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e613	I also believe by definition that it is never problematic to deal with the decision of the Storting. It's defining the business that the entire government is doing, also in this field. Then there's a big difference in areas that are open, and areas that are not open. The areas that have been opened are open — in this case in 1994 — after necessary impact assessments have been carried out in advance. Other areas of Norwegian continental shelf have been opened significantly before – the earliest in 1965. We've dealt with that in a normal way all the way. Of course, for areas that are not open, new impact assessments, new knowledge information should be provided. Then the Stortinget will finally decide whether there is something you want to go on with or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e629	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e643	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-06.ana.ud977e656	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
