ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e64	Honourable co-representatives! Former Deputy Mayor Mona Røkke passed away on 13 July – 73 years old. Mona Røkke was born on March 3, 1940 in Drammen. She took the degree artium, and became cand.jur. at the University of Oslo. After a few years as a businessman, Smoke worked as a police officer and a judge before she settled down as a lawyer in the Drammen. It was as a member of the municipal government and the leadership of the Drammen that her long line of political office began. In 1977 she was elected to Stortinget from Buskerud. It was the beginning of 12 very active years of national policy. In his first period at Stortinget, Røøkke was in the Judiciary Committee. She quickly identified herself as one of the Right's leading justice politicians. In the autumn of 1981 she became Minister of Justice in Willoch's government, an official she had until 1985 had to retire because of illness. She continued on the Grand Council until the 1989 elections – first as a member of the Defence Committee and then the Social Committee. After the fall she joined the county of Westfold and was an active and committed county until she retired in 2010. Mona Røkke was one of the leading Right-wing politicians in the 1970s and 1980s and made himself known as one of the party's foremost feminists. She was the head of the Hojrekvinners National Federation, both in Buskerud and at country level, and of the Right Central Government and Labour Committee. As Minister of Justice, she wants, among other things: be remembered for their work on criminal justice and crime prevention. The first action plan against female abuse was the one that launched Smoking. The long line of Mona Røkke held, testifies to a broad field of interest and large social exposure. Among other things, she led the Reinhriftstyrelsen, sat in the boards of the State Agriculture Bank and of the Norwegian Folkemuseum, and she was the head of the Telenor Business Assembly. She also led the selection that investigated enhanced legal certainty for the mentally retarded, as well as being a member of the National Association against Cancer, Vice-Chairman of the Cancer Association and Vice-Chairman of the European Movement, to mention something. Mona Røkke leaves many friends in large parts of Norwegian society. Here at Stortinget we will especially remember her efforts as a representative and a government council. We light peace over Mona Smoke's memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e85	The representatives of Inbjørg Vokskesen, Jan Arild Ellingsen and Arild Grande, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of Oslo, Peter N. Myhre, has taken the seat. The representative, Mr Q. Raja, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e104	It's about something we're all concerned with: food. I therefore have the pleasure of promoting a proposal for a comprehensive plan for soil protection on behalf of the big business representatives André N. Skkelstad, Pål Farstad, Ola Elvestuen and myself.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e109	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. As the Stortinge today receives visits from the Russian Federation Council, we will have a rapid presidential change, so I leave the word to Marit Nybakk.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e119	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e133	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 40 minutes, the Right 35 minutes, the Advance Party 20 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Left 5 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and the Green 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that members of the Government be given 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the insertion of main speeches for each group of parties and six lines with replies after the insertion of a member of the Government, within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e144	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Committee for its good and effective work on this year's transport budget. The good spirit of cooperation that characterizes the members of the Committee promises well for the next four years in the Committee. So I would say that it is a real pleasure to deal with and later today also adopt such an offensive budget for transport. The country has got a new government, and it clearly shows the budget we are dealing with today. Because in just three weeks, this government has proved that it's not just thinking new, it's actually delivering new. The transport area is a bet for the government, and in a short time, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left in the Stortinget, we have provided a strengthened transport budget that will ensure faster development of road and collective services. Already in next year's budget we see a marked increase compared to the red-green budget. We see a new direction in transport policy, where new instruments are being used, and where we see new ways of organising the transport sector. It's the jam of time, because it's absolutely necessary to rethink this area. It's about giving people a simpler everyday life. It's about building the country to ensure future value creation and competitiveness. The voters gave clear notice in the harvest: they wanted a new management of the country – to get a more punctual railway, to get safer roads to drive on, and to get the business moving faster. We don't build the future with money alone. We have to think new, organize ourselves better and make sure to get more transportation out of each penny. Our experience is that many have tried to think again in the years that the red-greens have run, but it seems that the red-greens have kept their ears shut and pulled the ideological roller blindness all the way down in front of their eyes. Former NSB Chief Osmund Ueland should know what he's talking about. He wrote the following two days ago in a chronicle of the NRK Opinion: ‘Most stop red light, and so did the Stoltenberg government, in general, stop the development of the railway for eight years.’ While the red-greens remained on red light for eight years, the Right-Fremskritsparte-government shifts to green light and invites all good forces to participate in making Norwegian transport more efficient and more forward-looking. As a conservative person, I am concerned about taking care of things and keeping things on the same, so that even those who come after me may benefit from what generations before they have invested in. For me, therefore, the maintenance of infrastructure is a central political task. I am therefore very pleased that, in the 2014 budget priorities, we have achieved a solid increase in the effort on maintenance. Good and adequate maintenance is a good investment in accessibility and road safety. Major parts of the strength of the national road network will be devoted to the maintenance of tunnels as necessary. The maintenance run has built up over many years, and it is a formidable job to reduce the retardation that has built up. But with this budget, we've taken a long step in the right direction. A more powerful collective development is needed to ensure a good environment for the metropolitan areas and a flexible flow of traffic. A large population growth – a growth where most of the big cities will be around – makes it absolutely necessary to make a strong collective effort to meet these challenges both in terms of housing and traffic. In order for people and goods to choose the railway, we need to be sure that the train is running when it's going to, and that it's coming out in time. It is amazing that maintenance on the railway has not been given greater priority over the last few years. That's why it's so happy that the stakes on the railways are now the biggest in many years. In total, the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left ensure that 750 million are allocated. kr more to railway in the budget line than the Stoltenberg Government proposed in its budget. New funding and development models will help to speed up road and rail construction and improve maintenance. Large-scale deployments should be organised in a completely different way from today, so that the implementation time can be significantly reduced. A good transport policy is about more than money; it is also about systems and how we organise it. We have now received a government that shows willingness for innovation, so that we can reorganise the road sector and the rail sector and build more roads and roads faster and cheaper. One of these measures is the work of a road investment company. Another is the initiative to look at the roles of the Railway Agency and the NSB. But it does not stop there: work on a separate infrastructure fund, which provides more predictable financing for future infrastructure development, has also started well. If we are to have a change of pace and an increase in investment on the road and track, it is absolutely vital that the projects are planned, and that they are ready to be realized when the funds are made available. We can't have the plans going out until you finish. That's why the planning time has to go down. Public-private cooperation, OPS, provides more money, shorter construction time and high quality infrastructure. That is why we want to launch more OPS projects — especially on the way. Norway has had three public–private cooperation projects in the road sector. The experience from these has been very good. According to a TØI evaluation, roads have been completed faster than traditional ones. The building method of public–private cooperation offers more benefits. It may provide for up to half the construction time, for continuous expansion of long distances, for guaranteed development costs, for no budgetary gap for the State, for more reasonable than traditional development, and for the quality of construction to be adapted to the overall service life of the road or line, because the developer himself is responsible for maintenance for up to 25 years if such a contract is entered into. Much of the road infrastructure was transferred to county municipalities through the administrative reform in 2010 — including a large maintenance set-up. The county councils are dependent on the provision of funds to solve this task. It was therefore necessary to strengthen the framework for this purpose in addition to the red-green proposal. And perhaps more importantly, this government is continuing the interest-rate compensation scheme with a framework of 2 billion. kr annually, which the previous government wanted to liquidate. I record that there are many, many around the country of Norway who are very pleased that the Right-Fremskritsparti government has now regained the interest compensation scheme. The red-green government must also be praised for having also raised the level of investment on the railways in recent years. Despite the fact that there is more money, we must also remember that in relation to the NTP to which the Stortinget committed itself before the summer, we are already in arrears. The starting point from the red-greens was simply too bad. We take a lot of money back into this budget, but not everything. This means that there is a need for further investment in the future, and if we are to achieve the goals of the Storting in the summer, I also hope that we will have a broad agreement on that commitment and commitment in the years to come. The State budget for 2014 in the transport sector marks the beginning of a new era for Norwegian commerce. We need to reform the way we build both road and rail in the coming years. Now let's take the first steps. A development company shall be set up both for road and rail, and we shall establish an infrastructure fund which will contribute to safer and more predictable financing of the infrastructure. We will build more efficiently, cheaper and more long-term for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e185	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e188	First of all, I would like to thank the representative of Greece as head of the Committee on Budgetary Cooperation. But I have a few questions: the representative of Greece spends a lot of time in his contribution to lifting up the OPS projects. Is it so that the government – also with the Progress Party – believes as much as the Right that this is the magic formula for building more roads, and in what way does the representative believe that OPS will provide more money? And does one at all have any concerns as to how to raise the money for future generations – not least for future politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e195	I thank the Health representative for a very good question. I'm very happy with OPS, and it's also because the first OPS section built in Norway was built in my neighbouring municipality. The Rock-Bårdshaug project turned out to be very, very successful. Now the road is well maintained. I can also tell the representative that now one has just replaced the lights throughout the tunnel with LED lights, both to get cheaper lights for those who operate the road, but also because it is better for us drivers. Yes, what's important to us is that we think in a completely different way than the previous government has done. Former governments have put transportation on hold. For eight years you've just built out a know-how job here and a know-how job there. What is crucial for us is that we think completely new and overall in larger projects, and then we believe that organizing the development of larger projects, where contracts are concluded with private companies, is a good way to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e202	The negotiations with the Christian People's Party and the Left gave more money to the railway than to the road. There might be good reasons for that. The representative of Hofstad Helleland was also concerned that the railway has been given increased appropriations – up to 300 pst. in fact – in the last eight years. There has been a strong focus on the importance of taking care of the railway and on the importance of developing new routes. When I look at both the supplementary proposal and the Committee's position, there are some projects that are more focused than others. At the same time, the transport plan has very clear ambitions regarding electrification of the Tronderbahn and the Meråkerbahn. There are clear ambitions for Ofotbanen and KVU in terms of the long freight trains, including the Nordlandsbanen and Sørlandsbanen – a number of routes. My question is: does it mean that you focus some projects so much more on the setting that you deprioritize those who are given priority in the transport plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e211	I want to repeat the rose to the red-green ones. I am very pleased that the red-greens have strengthened the railway budget as much as they have done – especially this year. I am also very pleased with the agreement we have with the Christian People's Party and the Left, where we have strengthened the railway operation further. We're basing our priorities on NTP. But it's very amazing to read in the paper that once we've strengthened the railway by 750 million. kr, special representatives of the Workers' Party are able to present it as a negative rail sector. You almost have to be a member of the Workers' Party to understand that. I think it's very amazing. Now we have a very good rail budget, where it is particularly important for the government to strengthen two things: the maintenance of infrastructure and the planning of new projects, and that is where we base the priorities of NTP on our further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e220	I think that at the beginning of a debate on transport we should be able to expect a hint of seriousness from the representative of Hofstad Helleland. When you describe the red-green bet for eight years, with increased bets on transportation, as a bit of climbing on some whiskers hist and pist, I think it's completely on the limit. The representative of Hofstad Helleland is well aware that the increase in the last few years has been about 90 pst. in the transport sector? I wonder what the representative of Hofstad Helleland will call the last Right-Registration's bet on commerce, if she describes our bet for the last eight years in such a demeaning way. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the representative of Hofstad Helleland: it is a fact that this budget presented by the Right and the Advance Party is not in the vicinity of fulfilling the promises made by the Right and the Advance Party in connection with the NTP. Can we expect them to be kept during the landfill period?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e231	The President will remind all the representatives of the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e234	I have to respect that. To the representative Eidsvoll Holmås I would say that for our government it is not to build the future of money alone. Yes, the red-greens have increased slightly in each budget, but for this sector, which is now screaming for change, it's not just about getting more money. We have to think again about how we organize, how we get more transportation out of each krona, how we provide better maintenance, how we clean up the railroad and how we make sure we get more money out of it. That's the difference between the red-green and this government. That is why we want a new infrastructure fund and a new road company. We also want to consider a new railway company, because we see that we have to think completely different than just sitting and being busy raising a little bit on each budget. I also believe that the representative Eidsvoll Holmås will have great joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e244	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e247	In 1997, I was the head of the main Committee for the Cultural Memory Year. The motto then was "Amendment delights". It's our story that anchors us in the present. I don't think we politicians win choices or anything on the basis of what we've done or on the basis of history, but I really believe that history and the past say something about who we are, where we are and why we've come to where we've come from. I think there's a lot of learning in history that can take us further into the future in a better way than the way we might have done it before. Therefore anchoring rejoices. Thorbjørn Berntsen said it so well when he opened the Year of Culture in 1997: ‘Looking backwards is foreseen.’ I remember very well that one of my greatest discoveries and surprises at the beginning of the 2000s, when I became State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport of the Stoltenberg I government – in addition to being a great place to be – was that there were fine NTP plans, with which there was nothing wrong, but never, either before or immediately afterwards, was fulfilled. It was never granted in this room the money that the same hall had decided would be granted. It didn't happen – neither before, then, nor afterwards. It led to great aftermaths on both road, track, collective, at sea and in the air. We are struggling with that delay today. When the red-greens took over in 2005, that was the situation. We put in a massive shift of pace in the transport sector. Our government put forward two NTPs with very high ambitions, and we did it for the long-range country in which we live. We even overfilled the NTPs. From the moment we took over, the appropriations have increased by almost 90 pst. – i.e. in the eight years of red-green government. I'm proud that we did that, and that we got it done. Our goal was and is to develop a modern and forward-looking transport system that makes traffic development simpler, faster, safer and more environmentally friendly. It shall contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of industry, improving the urban environment and contributing to regional development. It's going to make each of us get a simpler everyday life. Good transport is that Kjell-Idar Juvik, the representative of the Workers' Party in Northern Ireland, should be able to get home to his children and his family in the countryside he lives in Northern Ireland in a quick, safe and efficient way every time he leaves his job. Good transport is that everyone who lives in our cities should be able to travel collectively. It saves space, reduces emissions from car traffic, which provides better environment and air quality, which makes cities good to live in, and which brings great climate gains. Good behavior is when both those who sit there with their hearts in their throats, because they have a 21-year-old son – who I have – with a lot of testosterone, and who are walking on our roads and on our son, have received good training, and that the roads are so sure that as a parent, we can relax and at least have it a little bit better than we might sometimes have. It shall also be such that those travelling between fjords and mountains shall not be afraid that a race is going to take the school bus or someone else on their way home. Good traffic we have when the joints are safe when the boats and ships travel on the sea. Ports shall be good at receiving. Good transport is also that all those travelling in the transport system should be able to use it regardless of whether they can walk, stand, see or hear. Good transport is also that we, who come from other places, take over, acknowledge and accept that Oslo – our capital – and the East as a whole, where there are an incredible number of people, also have to have a transport system on the track, collective and road that works, and that allows people to live and work here in the East. I'm not saying with these examples that we're where we're going. But I believe that the red-greens in these eight years, where one has focused on the priority of transportation and let the money go with, have recognized the past and acted for the future. We have done this at the same time as we have built the community in other areas. We have ensured good economic governance, thus also ensuring the security of people's jobs, homes and homes. We promised, we did, and we promised no more than it was possible to hold. The difference between the money spent by the new government and the red-green government on the transport budget, which we are going to discuss here today, is small. But the big difference is what the new government has promised and said it should do more or less from day one, and what it actually delivers. Now the new government is related to the red-green NTP and not to its own. We had a record bet in our NTP. The progress party had a frame of 455 billion. kr more than ours. The Right Party and the Advance Party have promised more and new concrete road projects in addition to what we did. Bård Hoksrud promised to remove all the bombs in Norway from day one, i.e. 100 billion. kr in the next 10 years – fine swimmers. Now they're going to remove some toll stations, which are going to be 0.8 pst. of the total toll financing over the next 10 years. We're going to be adopting a toll project for 2 billion later in the hall. kr – i.e. three times more than they propose to cut – and that before Christmas has actually started! Last year, the Promskrittspartiet proposed to cut the freight with 25 billion dollars just before Christmas. kr. They had the same money as they now have. What really happened? Well, now they have to relate to the world of reality. They cannot spend money without consequences in other areas. It is not the size of the election opening of the Progress Party or the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left's fault that fewer bomb projects will be removed and that there will be projects in the future. The progress party has been saying what to do every year. They said the same thing all the way down to the threshold of election day. Then they had known for a long time that they were not going to be so much larger than 16 p.m., but yet they didn't change their promises, they didn't adjust the content of their message, so they're going to have to be measured by what they actually said they were going to do and what they actually deliver. We in the Workers' Party stand for our policies, and we stand for our promises. We promise no more than we can enforce. Today, we are going to adopt a budget that essentially continues our red-green policy in the budget we delivered in October. I am very pleased that the government in the agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party has increased the appropriations for road and rail. We do the same, but not as much as they do – because we don't have that money. That's also how tolls are equal to more money on the way. It's not like many people think that the Workers' Party thinks it's so fun and good that people have to pay tolls over the whole country. We should also want it not to be like that, but that's the way it has to be to get the paths, the paths and the collective solutions we want. For half a billion dollars, the government is now cutting tolls: most of the projects are soon paid off. Two of the projects, as the government says, have large costs with collection. Most other toll projects don't. Then I want to say, maybe we should never adopt the two projects in this room. But then everyone must be aware that then it had never been built any way at that time. I believe for the future that the lessons of the past can help us make wise choices, so that we adopt a wise toll project, which gives people respect for the split layer that tolls are and will also be, is important for us to get the path and the path we want. Then I would like to say to the representative of Hofstad Helleland, who points out that there is a very strong commitment to the red-green budget. There won't be a millimetre more way – at least not per now – if one establishes a road company. There won't be a millimeter more way – maybe a little, maybe a few meters – with infrastructure funds. But that's not a lot of money. That's three billion. kr or something like that which should be the return from it. I'll give the new government a chance. Of course, it's going to show what it does in four years, but I think this is a little bit up like a bear, down like a skin trap. I have not voted for them, so for me it does nothing, but I think that for those who have voted on them, it must be very special to see what we are going to do this afternoon when we are going to adopt the budget for transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e307	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e310	I must first remind the representative Sund that the first NTP adopted in 2002 and 2006 by the Bondevik II Government was adopted in the Stoltenberg Ice Government. It might have reflected the economy at the time, compared with the economy we have today. So I want to say that there's a lot of positive going on in this budget. We're based on the NTP -- of course we are, because the Right was involved in adopting that NTP this summer. We had some additions, including: a fund of SEK 50 billion. Over this period, we've been able to pay 30 billion. kr of them already. My question concerns this which has been a little strange about the Workers' Party. On the one hand, they boast very much about their budget, on the other hand, they're problematic that there's been 750 million. kr more. Can she explain how an increase of 750 million? NOK can be a problem in relation to not granting SEK 750 million. kr?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e319	First, I would like to say that the other governments I mentioned – Stoltenberg I was a government that also did not deliver on the NTP – had many different colors and values. I thought it was from 2005 that one actually did what one decided in this room, both from the government and from this room. We have not given or brought as much money as they have, but we have also increased with as much money as we think it is possible to use. We believe that this government is using money incorrectly when they take off the oil fund and use more of it. We also believe it is wrong when this government gives a little extra to transportation, but cutters in other areas such as nursery, cardboard and new nursery. We have less money than them, and we believe that it is not safe to spend more. And then we mean that the cuts they're doing are too drastic for us to be able to help fund them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e326	First, when only seven out of ten projects in the previous one in the NTP are started or realized, I'm not calling it that the plan is once fulfilled. Railway is an important part of public transport. The previous government has helped increase the appropriations for the railway. However, the limit has gone somewhere and it is in the case of maintenance. We know that maintenance is important for regularity, and important to get more people from driving their own cars and over on the track. Therefore, I wonder: why has the red-green government neglected the maintenance over the eight years it has been in government, or slept in the hour if you want, when it would be completely possible to really put the railway on the map by doing something about the maintenance seat suspension?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e333	Is there one thing I'm actually proud of, what we've been able to do on the railway in the last eight years? But then I'm going to be the first to admit, as I also did in my post, that we have a solid trace on the railway, which we also have on the road, which we didn't take in until it was too late, and which we now pay for. I believe it is important that we take the lead, and that is why I am very happy that – with the money we think we can use – we also want to give even more to correct the delay on the railway. But I think it is wrong when the representative states or points out that we have not done anything in the last eight years. If it's a sector that's been lifted, it's the railway sector, but far from enough. But at least we've started doing it -- unlike what's been done before.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e338	During Bondevik II, aviation in Norway was modernised. What used to be called the Swedish Aviation Agency was renewed and transformed into a State limited liability company. Avinor saw the light of day. Avinor was given completely different opportunities from those of the old Aviation Agency. They could evolve, make good investment plans for the future. It has given them predictability and freedom and ability to plan and build rationally. Success has certainly been so great that even the red-greens, who voted against the renewal, did not reverse the creation of Avinor when they took over power. Now we have to take new hold. The road sector needs to be renewed. The new majority will provide more rational use of funds, more long-term and more comprehensive development. A road carrier will be an important part of this renewal. Has the Workers' Party now learned from history, so that we can now expect a broad majority here on the Stortinget for the renewal that we so badly need?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e345	The working party and the red-green government have been concerned that one should make things more sensible, more efficient and more forward-looking. It has taken action in terms of both planning and carrying out. At the same time – and I will agree with the representative in that – Avinor is a good story. The Labour Party will also be involved, and we do not refuse to see other possible ways of organising Norwegian transport. But we are not there that we believe that road companies – automatically – are the ones that lead us to that. There are some questions that we need to answer, in order for us to be prepared to agree to anything; new ways of organizing, or perhaps to do so within today's organization. What's most important to us is that the money we spend on transportation becomes the most possible path by, as far as possible by, and that's what's going to come out at the other end. We're going to be involved in discussing how we're going to organise it, but we haven't decided what it's going to be like.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e352	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e355	Yes, much has happened since the last budget in the transport sector. We have a new government and thus a new political composition here on the Stortinget, with other opportunities to influence political decisions. Good transport solutions are particularly important for Norway — a sparsely populated nation with large distances. This means that we need to place a great deal of emphasis on infrastructure measures that give our citizens a predictable and, not least, efficient development, where different modes of transport are adapted to the needs of people. To get this done, it is not just to spend money. In fact, a bad project doesn't get better by granting more. That's why we have to think about new things, organize ourselves better, and make sure that each of the heads is used correctly. The road network is our main infrastructure. Effective and safe roads are essential to the competitiveness of business and to meet the needs of its citizens, which this government has set itself as an objective to ensure. The establishment of an infrastructure fund of 20 billion. kr in 2014, with escalating to 100 bn. kr during this period, make visible a government that demonstrates action and, in particular, a bulwark of the future. We want to invest a greater share of the returns of the State pension fund abroad in road, rail and other transport, set up a separate development company to bring more road projects into a much larger framework, and implement them more effectively. Yes, we, as big-time politicians, will lose some power, because this company will have to rely much more on professional assessments, and here on the Biggest, we will adopt a framework for the sector to a greater extent, in line with how Sweden and other countries have done it for a number of years. The government will increase safety on Norwegian roads by building full-scale motorways with central parts, between the press areas and between the largest cities. Too often we have seen counties sitting with the state councils for their region. This has been a little trusting for most people. Decisions shall be taken and subsequently launched following a socio-economic profitability which gives the best and most effective payoff for each tax credit used. We adopted an NTP in the spring that was made by a red-green government. It stands out very well – for all things – but the opposition at that time had a number of proposals for changes that were not adopted. Now we're at a new crossroads. A new grip is being taken and structural changes are being made. We are planning a halving of the planning time, faster expansion, less bureaucratic procedures and new road standards, and more accurate figures will be used. That's what we want to do about it by now seeing the projects in a larger context, because the government wants much more to build up the road and the path in the whole project. A report from the IRF has stated that, for example: The E18 in Westfold could have been completed in 7 years — not 24 years — if the road had been fully developed. But the work on NTP changes has already started, and we are responding to amendments to the best for the citizens. Air transport has been dealt with in a timely manner. We've also seen it in those posts that have been so far, that we haven't talked much about aviation. This is a sector that actually employs around 60,000 people, it is the mode of transport that links Norway as quickly as possible, and it is the only nationwide collective service – if you ignore the taxi industry. The routes in Norway are essential for the mobility of our population. In particular, we see the need for good offers between North Norway and South Norway. The use of aeroplanes for health transport is an important part of what this industry contributes to. Especially in North Norway, where long distances mean loss of time, the short-distance network is very important in this respect. Avinor AS is facing a comprehensive investment programme in the years ahead to meet expected growth in demand in aviation. It is therefore of great importance that Avinor be given as far as possible the possibility of building infrastructure adapted to the needs. The funding system does not provide incentives to see investments in aviation in the context of the development of other infrastructure. This actually results in a socio-economic loss in the billions class. Furthermore, it is very important that the new government will try out a faster transfer for passengers in transit at Oslo Airport. This is a matter I have actually asked the former finance minister about at least four to five times. Now something happens, and that's good. This will actually give society a saving of about. 170 million. kr annually. It is important that we now discuss in more detail the framework conditions of aviation and industry. A lot could have been said. The budget we are about to adopt is a mixture of red, green, yellow and blue. It'll be exciting to see what's coming now, and not least what's coming in the next budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e379	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e382	Both in the position of the Transport Committee and in its correspondence with the Ministry of Transport, it appears that the Government, when referring to the National Transport Plan — NTP — makes use of the NTP adopted in spring by the red-green majority. In dealing with the NTP in ours, the Progress Party would increase the framework by no less than 455 billion. kr. Repeat, 455 billion. kr. Is the Progress Party now satisfied that there will not be 455 billion. kr, and that it is the framework adopted by the Red-Green majority, which will now be worked out and planned for the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e389	So it's a majority government that has adopted the present NTP, which the representative is quite right to say here. For us, it is important to sort out the issues that lie there, and look at the proposals proposed by both the Progress Party, the Right and other parties. I want to compare a little with when a businessman takes over a warehouse. First, a inventory must be made. Then you have to see which things are actually dated, which may have to go out first. Then you have to look at the whole, the way in which in case you have the opportunity to speed up projects that can give you the best possible countdown. In its own NTP proposal, the Progress Party has shown a different method of financing how investment and operations are distinguished, etc. I am absolutely sure that the representative will be able to see, in the coming months and in the coming years, that there will be very many good, new proposals and smoking.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e394	The representative Michaelsen stated that the road network is important for business and housing throughout the country. I fully agree with that. It's very important. At the same time, after the negotiations that were in Stortinget with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we see that some of the investments have been turned from road to rail. Then the representative creates some uncertainty about the willingness to follow up the national transport plan, because you say that you should sort projects, and at the same time you show that you should have a road company that will be responsible for some of the priorities. Then my question becomes to the representative: Can we now expect investment funds for highways to go down? And on the basis of the priorities of road companies and the sorting of projects in NTP: What is the project that you want to deprioritize?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e401	Now let's see, as I said. We've been sitting for seven weeks and have to take one thing at a time. The most important thing for us is, in fact, that it becomes socio-economicly possible to prioritise a greater coherence in the projects. That is, there are projects in the red-green NTP that will actually not be the same, because one will get a much better solution. I'll do an example. In the adopted NTP, which the red-greens have been behind, there are planned road sections constructed as two-field roads. In our thinking and in our policies, we may see, to a much greater extent, three- and four-field roads as a solution where the need for it has actually been made visible. For those people who are affected by this, it must be much better to raise the focus on a better way than that a clumsy, broken and divided, builds up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e408	In recent years there has been quite a revolution on the roads. The early electric cars Think and Buddy were completely impractical considering the driving distance, which was quite short. They were quite dangerous for those who put in them, because they're pretty unsafe, and for those who are concerned with aesthetics, they weren't very nice to look at. There has been a development then, first Nissan Leaf came on the track, and now last Tesla, as you might say is the cheeky egg – the car is running for a long time, is safe and is quite nice to look at. The Stoltenberg government put in a pretty big cut on Transnova, about 17-18 million. NOK, and the Solberg government added a further cut, of approximately 20 million. kr. I'm glad we got a lift on Transnova, so we can continue the expansion of charging stations across the country. My question to the representative is whether in the years to come we can still get this help in the negotiations. Can we count on that help from the Progress Party, so that we can continue the great effort to develop charging stations and infrastructure for electric cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e415	For us, it's important that we see the development that has happened, and I think a lot of people have been surprised at how fast this has now come into place, how many people are buying an electric car. It is then important to see that the State should contribute to motivating and, not least, triggering measures specifically related to electric car infrastructure. But now we have a car industry that is starting to get a pretty good profit from car sales, which sees that they can actually plough money back – for their own benefit – by being helpful in getting more charging stations in place. So we think that private – read the car industry here – must participate much more. In that case, the funds that we grant over the State budget may have to go into other areas, not necessarily just infrastructure construction. We believe that the private sector, the car industry in particular, should actually be able to give something back and be involved in infrastructure development.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e420	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e423	Over several years, the Christian People's Party and the cooperation parties have called for innovation in the transport sector. Ten years of road construction planning is far too long. In addition, for decades we have experienced a strong underestimation of traffic growth in our country, and although there has been a high level of activity in the road sector in recent years, no new organisational action has been taken to address the future transport challenges. It's always been more of the same thing. The state road system has been organised in the same way decades after decades. The railway station was in the middle of a renewal process at the government change in 2005, but the Stoltenberg government – and in my opinion with a very bad result – chose to stop that renewal. Now we have a new majority, which agrees that the future will be planned and implemented through new ways of organising transport modes. We look forward to doing this. The proposal presented today will be characterised as an offensive budget, where transport has become a clear winner. Although the additional proposition from the government of Solberg gave the sector a solid boost, there was still a clear need for improvements in some areas. This was not least the case in the railway sector, new instruments for speeding up the development of routes and bicycle paths and the building of a better-organised infrastructure around electric car construction, and, together with a strong prioritisation of maintenance, not least after pressure from the cooperation parties Left and Christian People's Party, we feel that the first year of the new process has actually begun to facilitate a greater and more offensive investment in the transport sector than ever before has clearly been a priority. We are pleased that the railway maintenance in particular has received a solid increase of 750 million in total. kr. Nevertheless, this is not sufficient in the years ahead to avoid an increase in backlog. We will therefore work towards keeping the appropriations up with the challenges in this area as well, so that passengers can have renewed confidence that the train is reliable and that the business community can make more progress in the transport of goods. It must also be a central objective to achieve safe, continuous walking and cycling paths. 8 pst. bicycle share in 2023 I don't want to characterize as any very ambitious goal. In Sweden, the bicycle share is 12 pst. We therefore believe it is important to provide tools to facilitate increased use of bicycles, and that together with voluntary organisations such as the Safety Traffic and the Cyclists National Association, we can get up the bicycle share while getting several kilometres of continuous cycling. That is why we have a proposal that the whole committee is now behind, a new reward scheme for walking and cycling routes to be put in place in the context of the revised national budget in 2014, a system that will be able to stimulate municipalities and county councils to invest even more strongly in walking and cycling routes. For our children and young people, this is about more safe school roads. Faster planning processes with more predictable funding are also essential to increase the efficiency of all road and rail development. We therefore meet the new grips of the draft state budget alerts for reorganization. We all believe that the creation of new road and rail companies, project financing and an infrastructure fund are good measures to achieve faster, high-quality results. Finally, the framework conditions for electric cars were established by Stortinget through the climate agreement. The gain we have now received from Transnova by 40 million. kr following the budgetary agreement between the Government Parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party, provide completely new opportunities to create a charging infrastructure in cooperation between public and private actors which could further accelerate the development of electric cars. We've got a budget that gives us good direction and speed to raise several of the tasks that have been in line for a long time to be solved. Finally, I would recommend the setting of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e443	I want to challenge the Christian People's Party at the Post Office. We see that the Christian People's Party is involved in settlements that involve cutting off unprofitable postal services, and we have a government that wants to introduce the Postal Directive. We have heard the warnings from Postkom, which point to experiences from other countries that indicate that it is becoming more expensive, and you don't get an equivalent offer across the country by doing so, because it's only around Oslo that you have a business-economy market. So my question to the Christian People's Party is, are equivalent postal services throughout the country important to the Christian People's Party? And if yes is the answer, how will one ensure equivalence?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e449	Today there is free competition in parcels. It is only on postal items less than 50 grams Post Norway has exclusive rights. We believe and see that the Post Norway is open and positive for more competition in this area. They are adaptable and a modern group, which we think should meet that challenge and be able to make the adaptation that one here puts up, while at the same time maintaining an equivalent postal service where one had to live in the country. That is why we are concerned that the unit portfolio should continue to be kept, and even if it does not necessarily become Saturday distribution, there should be an equivalent offer across the country. And maybe more than me are happy that we don't get bills on Saturdays ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e454	The Christian People's Party had the committee chairman in the previous transport committee, and as late as June, NTP was adopted. In the setting, the Christian People's Party joined a note about betting on the Nordlandsbanen, not least the route from Rana Gruber down to Mo i Rana – a strengthening as a result of Rana Gruber's needs, for they will have new ore vehicles – to get an reinforcement there. In the position of the budget that is here today, there is also a note, but I note that the Christian People's Party is not in it. Does this mean that the Christian People's Party has a different policy today in terms of rail and the Nordic Railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e459	In the proposal that we are behind with the three other cooperation parties, we have been in favour of a strong commitment to rail. This applies to both maintenance and upgrading, so that the railway should be a more attractive offer in those parts of the country to which it is natural to add the railway. We are concerned that the Nordlandsban should also have a better future than it has today. We have this time deliberately not gone into single sections in the notes, it will also look out of the other notes, but it does not mean that we do not continue to focus on making the improvements and upgrades on the Nordlandsban that are clearly necessary and that we will continue to work for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e464	I don't think – based on the first answer – that I can just let the representative's a little cumbersome way of talking about mail delivery in the districts go unnoticed. Is it so that the Christian People’s Party now believes it is good that people in the districts do not receive mail on Saturday? Why did the Christian People's Party fail the postal directive, that is, the resistance to the postal directive that we and the previous government jointly had been able to build up? And the third question – because I think this is a very special way to pursue active European policies, namely to accept several EU directives to which a previous enlargement has said no: can we expect the same emergency from the Christian People's Party when it comes to the treatment of the rail directive, where there is a substantial privatisation of the railways on the steps?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e469	With regard to our position on the Post, I would like to stress once again that an equivalent postal service for everyone wherever they live in the country is a clear objective that is important for us to facilitate, and to be able to implement, even in the future. We do not look at the conversion of competition in postal items below 50 grams as some major radical change that will reduce postal services in the districts and make it worse. As far as the railway is concerned, we are committed to doing the necessary grips to be able to build up under the railway as an important means of transport in our society. We have some experience from competitive outsourcing, for example: by Gjøvikbanen, which we think is good. We think it can be done through a separate railway company. We also believe that through some form of competitive outsourcing, we will be able to make this offer even more attractive, both for passengers and for those who are going to carry goods in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e476	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e479	The centre party will develop a modern and forward-looking transport system that will facilitate, speed up and improve traffic management. This will contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of industry, shrinking distances between parts of the country, and contributing to regional enlargement and improving the urban environment. For the Central Party, transport and business policies are closely linked. With good transport investment, the basis for value creation along the coast, within the country and in all parts of the country is laid. Industry, fisheries, aquaculture, food production, tourism, mining and petroleum are all industries located around the country, and many of them have a long way to markets. These industries are important for the economy of Norway and create local jobs. By investing in transport systems that make the flow of goods better interconnected, systems that get more goods on the keel and track, we contribute to economic development and good climate policy. Measures to strengthen vulnerable road users and to increase the use of bicycles and bicycles in cities are important, and an action plan to increase the number of young people on foot and by bicycle is something the Centre Party will work with the Committee for. More traffic-proof roads are important, while checks and awareness-raising work are needed to make traffic safer. The autumn and winter so far have had a strong increase in foreign vehicle trains. Many of these are not equipped for Norwegian conditions. Former Minister of Transport Arnstad put in place new cover regulations. The new Minister for Transport, Solvik-Olsen, calls for more border control, mandatory smooth driving courses, etc. The centre party fully supports these measures. But does the Minister for Transport have support in the EU and in EU Minister Helgesen to implement these measures? The red-green government kept it promised: Two transport plans were overfilled, and in the spring of 2013 the National Transport Plan 2014-2023 was adopted – with a new strong commitment to transport, and an increased planning framework of L67 billion. kr, compared to a continuation of the 2013 ageing budget level – a plan of good regional distribution and large investments in all parts of the country. Corridors linking the country are given greater priority. The appropriations under the red-green government to the road and the track alone have increased by nearly 90 pst. since 2005. The Central Party shall base the draft budget of the Red-Green Government on the adopted national transport plan. Since the economic space has increased since the budget was presented, the Centre Party, together with the Workers' Party and the Swedish Labour Party, chooses to strengthen the framework area l7 by NOK 660 million. Our additions include: for increased railway maintenance and compensation for county roads. We have noted the cut-off of the Right Party government on regional development funds, and that parts of this is being redispatched to the county roads. The centre party supports rural road investment, as mentioned but not cut into regional development funds – it contributes to less nutrient activity in the districts. Furthermore, the Right-wing-Fremskritspart-regierung kutter the investments in ports and fairways of 46 million. kr. Investment in the port of Napp in Flakstad municipality in Nordland and Sommarøy in Tromsø municipality in Tromsø municipality. There are measures that the Centre Party cannot support. It has a direct impact on the fishing fleet and on the farms in these ports. The fact that investments in these ports are at best deferred also means that important coastal port investments are being put on hold. The adoption of a national transport plan and the short-haul shipping strategy made available to 3 billion people is a poor thing. kr for strengthening maritime transport and ports. Forty-six million. kr there should be room for manoeuvre within these funds, for the needs for investment in these ports are well justified. The cuts in the state purchase of postal services and the introduction of the postal directive are in the same district hostile style. It is with amazement the Center Party records that the Christian People's Party and the Left support this. Since there is only a defined geographical area around Oslo where postal services are economically profitable for business purposes, the unit and government purchases have been the guarantee of an equivalent postal service for business and residents around the country. The introduction of the Postal Directive puts the single portfolio at risk, and the cut in government purchases carries bids for a direction in which the country's business and residents do not receive an equivalent offer in the future. It's getting more expensive, and it's giving fewer days of delivery. The central party also records that after 40 years of accusations from this pulpit about highway robbery, ran and skinning of the drivers, today is a brand day. The reality has also acquired the government party Progress Party, and they vote for 1.5 billion. kr in tolls. Like that or not, tolls are part of the way of financing roads, nothing else. Politics is not about promising the most, but about implementing it a law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e502	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e505	The State Road Service has carried out a survey showing that it will cost between 47 and 78 billion. to remove the due date and make necessary upgrading of the county road network. The Red-Green Government expressed a desire to remove the interest-rate compensation scheme in its budget. The current government has chosen to strengthen the road effort through increased appropriations and by maintaining a 1 billion transfer. kr – in addition to continuing the interest-rate compensation scheme. My question is, what has made the Central Party realize that it is important to strengthen the ability to invest in the counties by continuing the interest-rate compensation scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e512	As the representative is sure to know, the red-green government has allocated funds directly to the county councils for the purpose of re-enforcement of the funds allocated in connection with the national transport plan. We continued the interest compensation scheme for projects under way. It was a grip that was thought to be important. Then, during the budgetary procedure, we have now chosen to further strengthen the county roads by continuing the interest-rate compensation scheme as a whole. There is nothing new about changing the setting or priorities during budget deliberations. We also did that in the four years that have passed, when we ourselves were in position. We strengthened train stops, walking and cycling routes, measures for the rescue company, etc. So there's nothing new in it. We believe that overall a better solution is achieved than by cutting regional development funds — then distributing something back to some county municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e519	First of all, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the Central Party has changed its mind in less than two months and now realizes that the Stoltenberg government's draft budget for transport was very poor district policy, and that in retrospect they have seen that the new government's proposal to continue the system of interest compensation to the counties is a good tool for road construction in the districts. My question is about road financing. The centre party – and the Workers’ Party – points out in a note that it is ‘more expensive to buy on payment than to pay on cash’. Isn't that exactly what the Center Party has been doing for eight years? Haven't we borrowed money cheaply out of the country, then to borrow them back expensively to finance road projects? That is how toll companies have been financed. Can I interpret this as a change of direction at the Centre Party, and that a free Central Party in Stortinget will support government proposals on less debt financing and increased state share in road construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e527	As I explained in my article, it's not exactly the district policy of the new government I'm cheering for. On the contrary, we see a clear change from districts to central districts in a number of measures. We have strengthened the interest-rate compensation system through the budgetary procedure, we have added to it here. To say that the district policy of the Stoltenberg government was bad – I do not buy it. In the case of OPS, for which the representative makes the request, the examples from a number of countries have shown that it is expensive to purchase a hire. I remember that the finance minister in Sweden said that it was the least trick you could do, and that you just can't buy on payment when you can pay in cash. So I think you're going to nuance the picture in terms of how smart it is with OPS. Discussing other forms of road financing will be part of the Centre Party. Then we'll see what the device will be like. We're probably going to ask a bunch of questions before we can say yes to how to solve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e536	The Center Party leader, Liv Signe Navarsete, said to the nation: «The problem is not that the government has bad advice, but that we have arranged unwisely. It is not a lack of money, but it is a system enforcement that keeps us back." There has been a high level of activity in the road sector in terms of money use, but we note that this is not the same in terms of efficiency. In the railway field, there was a much larger investment rate a hundred years ago than what you could see in the periods of the red-green. When the Central Party had the Central Council for Transport for eight years, and we read the opinion of Liv Signe Navarsete, is it not a little strange for the Central Party to experience that it needed a new majority to get a real boost on a large-scale initiative – with organisation and new development models – that can contribute to new results in the road and rail sectors?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e548	We haven't seen that speed yet. So we're going to come back to this as the concrete proposals come along. The government – the red-green – that my minister represented, took clear action in planning processes to make them go simpler and faster and be more holistic. I have great faith in that, and there was a great deal of agreement on this during the treatment of the national transport plan. It is no secret that the Centre Party wants to go further to find ways to finance this – in addition to the tools we have had. We're going to participate actively in these discussions. Then – as I said – we will see what proposals are coming. It will depend on whether they can get our support or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e557	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e560	We in the Left propose in our alternative state budget to grant a little over 50.6 billion. kr under frame area 17, slightly over 1.4 billion. kr more than that resulting from the government's proposal. The overall alternative government budget of the left for 2014 is based on the budget proposals of the outgoing government and the additional government’s position. The transport sector must take its share of the responsibility for reducing national greenhouse gas emissions. The main priority of the left in the transport policy is therefore to intensify the development of a competitive infrastructure for environmentally friendly and resource-efficient freight and passenger transport. This is, in addition to ensuring a secure transport system for all, one of the most important national tasks in the coming years. Good roads are important for good accessibility between regions, for increased value creation, for the development of viable districts and for meeting business transport needs. Both the county road network and the main road network need to have a higher standard. In order to reduce the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic, it is necessary to set up transport systems in order to promote safe behaviour while at the same time protecting against the fatal consequences of dangerous driving. That is why we in the Left have chosen to give priority to investment measures that prevent race, meeting accidents, outings and accidents involving pedestrians and cyclists. I believe that all transport growth in and between the largest cities in the future should take place within rail and public transport. Today's railway line is curved and old, characterized by instability, technical defects and climatic stresses. Left will rust up today's tracks and build new and more competitive lanes. We want the railway to be the backbone of the transport system, for both short-haul, long-haul and freight traffic. We in the Left believe that double tracks from Oslo to Halden, to Skien and Lillehammer and railway construction around the largest cities are the first stage in a modern rail network between the parts of Norway, both for passenger transport and for freight. A modern double track on the Eastfold Railway is the first stage of a high-speed rail to Europe. In order to realise large infrastructure projects, new ways of planning, financing and implementing them are needed. There is a need for significant increases in appropriations, more predictable financing and the development of longer distances at a time, without being divided into small sections. Furthermore, the Left believes that there is a great need for the reorganisation of the railways in Norway, and we believe that the reorganisation must take account of the fourth EU rail directive. It is therefore appropriate to establish a company taking over the responsibility for ordering train traffic in Norway, as well as the development, maintenance and operation of the railway infrastructure. Responsibility for ownership and maintenance of railway equipment should be distinguished from that of the NSB and from that of a separate state-owned whole-time company. I want to follow up on this from the left so that the government can implement it. The undersigned will also take the opportunity to show pleasure in the fact that a Joint Committee considers it appropriate to plan the intercity sections as a single project. In this respect, the Left has considered that a project organisation should be established in the form of a state development company with overall responsibility for planning and completion. We in the left believe that we must have the goal of completing the intercity sections by 2025. There is reason to be concerned about the maintenance of the railway and the delays it will bring to train traffic. That is why we in the Left have chosen to base the Railway Agency's input to the NTP 2014-2023 on the maintenance and upgrading of the railway system on our policy. We have decided to increase the appropriations for the maintenance of the railway by 1.9 billion. kr. I will therefore ask the government to ensure that the maintenance is at a professionally recommended level in 2015. The rail between parts of the country accounts for a significant share of the train’s passenger transport work and has a significant share of freight transport between parts of the country. However, Norway lacks a strategy for rail between parts of the country and towards Sweden and the continent. I would therefore like to ask the government to initiate work on an offensive strategy as well as concrete conceptual investigations for the transport corridors, which are completed well before the next NTP is presented. The strategy and the draft selection studies need to clarify the level of ambition and direction of development of the different corridors and thus provide a framework for relevant railway projects and contribute to better overall planning across transport modes. I am very pleased that both the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party, in cooperation with us, indicate that there is a need for important reforms throughout the transport sector. In the additional proposal, the government announced the start-up of a road company. I have noticed that the Minister of Transport here in Stortinget has said that he is positive that we also get a company for the railway, and I look forward to seeing if he will be able to say anything more about the progress and the time frame for this today. We in the Left will vote in favour of our alternative budget and the respective proposals we have put forward in the vote. If it does not get a majority, I refer to the cooperation agreement with the government parties and the Christian People's Party and will therefore vote in a subsidiary way for these proposals, where there is not all unanimity in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e581	The President cannot see that the Left has put proposals in the setting, so I assume that the Left will not vote for anything other than the setting. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e586	The left is part of the government's foundation, both through a cooperation agreement and, together with the Christian People's Party, a budgetary settlement has been made. I would like to commend the Left and Christian People's Party for providing a very urgent reinforcement of the railway – the representative from the Left should know that the Workers' Party appreciates it very much. I'm a little tempted to mention the cut in regional development funds, because in my home country we've used them to build out charging stations for electric cars, for which I heard the representative had a lot of commitment. But for me it is a little bit unclear whether the Left is an opposition party or a positioning party, all the time the party has promoted its own budget proposal, so my question to the representative is really: why?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e593	Is the question why we're an opposition party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e598	Can I explain? Why have you promoted an alternative budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e603	Why have we promoted our alternative budget? I think it is quite natural that we should promote our own budget. We are not a party in government. The choice that was gave a result that made it the basis for forming a new government. We have made a commitment to the electorate during the election that the country should be given a new government consisting of all the things that were our choice, a blue-green alternative with the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, but the negotiations showed that there was no basis for such a government. We have chosen to be a constructive opposition party with a cooperation agreement where we can have significant influence over the government's policy. Just what the representative has shown was joy in having received 750 million. kr more to the railway, is the result of the 5.3 percent we got in this election.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e610	In order to avoid misunderstandings, the President will draw attention to the fact that the Left promoted its original proposal in the financial position, but does not promote it in the position we are dealing with today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e614	I registered for my pleasure that the representative promoted a Document 8 proposal today that went on soil protection. It's going to be interesting to read, and we'll see if we can figure this out together. My question goes on another matter; railway investments. I'm very happy – like several others here – that you can get more to the railway. We need to do that. My question to Raja is whether we can get support from the Left to have a concept selection for electrification of the long freight trains and to get it into the national transport plan in four years' time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e621	I thank you for the question and comment related to soil protection. Unfortunately, too much of the food soil is being built down in this country, and we have to take that very seriously. I look forward to the good cooperation we can have with the Center Party at that point. With regard to the railway, it's one of the big heart issues of the left, not only because it's good for the environment, but it's also good for the people who travel, to get to and from work and for the business community, to get more goods over on the railway. The invitation I'm being addressed to, we're going to accept. We're going to cooperate well with the parties on Stortinget. Although we have a constructive cooperation agreement with the government parties, we are an opposition party. We're going to cooperate with all the parties on the Stortinget to find the best solutions for the railway, including the electrification of the sections mentioned by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e628	I noticed that the representative was so busy flagging that the Left came to support all kinds of privatisation of the railway that is on the table. Then I just want to ask the representative about one thing: At the last crossroads, when Left directed the Ministry of Transport, privatisation was carried out, among other things. The railway station. This led to the loss of a lot of key competences in important areas of operation and maintenance, and lost people, which, in my opinion, did not get started quickly enough with the development of the railway that we wanted from the red-green side, even though we got to much in the eight years we were sitting. If you look at the major railway nations in Europe, all the nations that choose to do things within their own house when they implement their policies. It's the success factor when you look at the great upswing of the railway. Will the representative Abid Raja look at and learn from the countries that are being put on the rail front before he is in favour of large-scale privatisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e635	Now we've had a government that's been sitting and learning for eight years, and implemented significantly little in this area, which the country is totally dependent on. The representative here is not so allergic to either private money or more competition. We are in favour of the EU rail directive, and I am pleased that the NSB is already proposing to align itself with this. That's what's going to be tomorrow. I think increased competition will help customers get a better offer, that we will get more implemented. I think both OPS and the sale of government bonds are the way to go. I also think the representative Eidsvoll Holmås might, if he thinks about it, be satisfied with the generous extra allocation that has come to the railway after Stoltenberg provided his budget, which was perhaps something below what the NTP initially put up to. I am pleased to cooperate with Eidsvoll Holmås further on the Stortinget on this, and look forward to SV being a constructive partner also to getting in place more investment on the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e642	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e645	Making people move is about giving people freedom – the freedom to live where you want to, visiting who you want, whether you have a car or not. I just thought I'd do one thing: I think the discussion about whether the Progress Party is doing lifting breaks when they don't fulfill all its election vows is not so interesting, just because they're quite right that they only have 16 pst. uprisings in the people. But I think the discussion is still interesting when you think about one thing: in view of the fact that we dealt with the national transport plan before the summer, it is that the Progress Party, with the budget presented, lacks about 52 billion. kr to fulfill its promises, while it still lacks approximately 9 billion. kr to comply with the Right-wing promises. That is why I think it is an important point to ask the government parties the question: are the government parties going to fulfill at least the promises to the Right, if they are not going to fulfill the promises of the Progress Party in appropriations for transport policy in the coming years? Or do they intend to do what is almost right in the setting and in the supplementary proposition, essentially following the recommendation and the level that came from the red-green government, and putting on a little bit more, as they have done in the budget of the year? I believe that there is an important question that the government parties have to answer, and I noticed that the chairman of the committee, from the Right, would not answer. Building the railway is about freedom. There's no way to travel that's more comfortable. It's a happiness to sit on the Fly train inward towards Oslo, suck into the city and look at the car traffic next door and think like that: you know what, I chose the right means of transport this time as well. Facilitating more lightning is absolutely right when it comes to facilitating people's freedom. When the red-green government took over, the railway lay on a sodbed. Both maintenance and investment had been down-priority, but we have doubled the investment and thus facilitated a large-scale expansion, among other things. of the intercity triangle. Here I believe that the Minister for Transport has made it unclear whether or not the promises made by the NTP treatment have been fulfilled, about a planned development within clear deadlines of the internal intercity triangle. I hope that the Minister for Transport will give a clear answer in his statement later. Being able to ride safely is about freedom. For those of us who use the bike as a means of transport, both because it's the most effective, because it's fun to bike and because it gives good health to bike, it's important to bet on a bike. Although Åse Michaelsen earlier said that the projects should be sorted according to socio-economic profitability, and even though the Right in the Opposition said that the cycling effort is the most socio-economically profitable effort to reduce climate emissions, we do not see that the government’s priorities are higher in its budgets. And it's good that the committee has that reward scheme in place, as it's announced in committee voting. Making sure that babies with asthma must not be in cold winter days is about freedom. We have in poor years two very polluted cities here in the country, but we do not find any distortion in the budget here towards reducing car traffic into the largest cities when we get an increase in the bet, as it says in the government statement, on motorways – an increase in road investment that distorts the balance between road and train that our government had set up. Making sure that parents can send their children to kindergarten nearby is about freedom, and it shows that the choices we make, when planning both kindergarten, school, workplaces and residential areas, determine the need for later investment in transport. Therefore, climate-friendly and good, systematic treatment of the plans we make for cities and our country is extremely important when we also think about transport investment. Making sure that climate change does not hit us all, is about freedom – freedom from storms, which are getting stronger, and more extreme weather. The emissions from the transport sector are clearly the largest climate emissions in Norway, and therefore it is vital to ensure that we have a transport budget that takes this into account in all of this, in order to succeed in halting dangerous climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e666	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e669	It's interesting to observe SV in Stortinget after the party came out of the government's arms. It is best to compare it with taking the lid off a pressure cooker, because we experience that SV is constantly attacking points in its own government's proposals. But what is not in this position was also not in the proposals of the Stoltenberg II government. So if SV asks for something, they have to go back to their own government cooperation and see how it has ended up there. I ask – and it should perhaps also make you a little less aggressive about the Progress Party: Is it not true that even the Swedish government has had to jeopardize itself quite a lot in order to have a government cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e676	Well, everyone understands that if you're part of a government – and you're just a small party – you're not going to get an impact on all the politics. But what I challenge is the Progress Party – and which I challenge in this context, too, in this context – is how in all the world you can run from your own promises by blaming other government partners like the Right, when you don't even fulfill the Right's promises in the National Transport Plan in the spring of the budget you have later presented here. And then I'll say one thing. In the budget we provided before the elections, we actually added up to, among other things. a large-scale cycling effort, and we put up a big investment on the railways with a large increase — in fact, in addition to some of the areas promised in the national transport plan. But what we're seeing is that the new government has more money, and in that investment with more money, you're distorting the balance that we had put into our budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e683	I would like to begin by congratulating Heikki Holmås, who has taken over from Hallgeir Langeland as a transport policy spokesman. First, I have to give you a little bit of orientation. When the red-green government was unable to meet the NTP itself, I find it pointless to criticize others who, after all, have increased the appropriations. In honor of Hallgeir Langeland, who was very busy with the railway, I have two questions about the railway. One is whether SV is satisfied that the new government has increased the appropriations for the railway, in addition to what SV himself was behind. And number two: I wonder if SV is still too light train at a cost of 500 billion. kr. And in that case, will we see proposals for funding in the 2015 budget and beyond?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e692	I am pleased that more money has been allocated to the railway, and then I would say that it is not the government that has the primary responsibility that we have got to that increase. The main responsibility lies with the opposition, with the Left and Christian People's Party, who sat in the Storting and helped to push forward the increase, which the government had not made. I would also like to correct the representative by saying that we fulfilled the national transport plan in the case of appropriations. The first thing we did when we came to government in 2005 was to fulfill the promise of 1 billion. NOK extra in the national transport plan to which we had agreed. We followed it further in the eight years we were sitting, while we see that the Progress Party neither fulfills its own promises of appropriations or the Right's promises of appropriations in the budgets they have submitted during this period. So I ask for clarification: are you going to fulfill your promises in the future budgets?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e700	Based on what I understand from the professional authorities, it is said that the national transport plan, which was submitted, is approx. 1 billion. kr below what is really the need to ensure that the maturity does not continue on the railway – that we can maintain and maintain. Also, according to what I understand, it was the budget that the representative helped to promote under Stoltenberg, approx. 1 billion. kr below it again. As a result, we added approx. So, let's say $1.9 billion. NOK to collect the trailing product. Now we are not the government, and we have 5.3 pst., but we managed anyway – even though the Solberg government increased by 100 million. kr in relation to Stoltenberg – to contribute to the fact that there is now 750 million. kr more. My question to the representative is: On a scale from 1 to 10 – how happy is the representative that the Left has come into the key position that we have managed to get to the bet on the railway that we see now? And can we imagine that this enthusiasm will continue on the part of the representative in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e709	Can I not just start by saying – as I also said in the previous line here – that I think it was good that the Left and Christian People's Party agreed to negotiate a larger increase to the railway than it had been set up by the government. Now I think that the Left in general makes an environmental giant bomber by having a government made up of the Progress Party and the Right, to direct development. Because we saw that in the budget they provided, they distorted the balance between road and rail that we had set up in our budgets. Then it is quite right that the representative said that we had put greater emphasis on investments than on maintenance, which meant that we did not fulfil the railway works' request for maintenance. But the representative will also see that in the budgets and in the budgetary procedure that has now taken place, there is also an increase in railway maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e718	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e721	The Green Party is not in the Transport and Communications Committee, but in our alternative state budget we show how Norway should start a transition to a transport system that responds to the next generation of needs. If Norway wants to do so, transport policy must already set the targets that are actually needed. That means the goal has to be close to 100 pst. renewable transport system. It also means that we have to stop investing in heavy half-way solutions that in a few years' time will be direct barriers to further environmentally friendly transport development. A transport policy that assumes that there are always too few roads, which literally build new motorways next to the new routes, which bring even more cars into cities, and which promote self-propelled and unguided growth in air traffic, will not provide Norway with the transport system we need in the future. That's why the Green Party, as the only party on the Stortinget, makes a real choice. We give priority to track, public transport, ships, bicycles and corridors. We don't give priority to road, we don't give priority to aircraft. This underpins our 49-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion-billion. kr, where we move 3 billion. kr from road and aircraft and plus 4,3 billion. kr for climate-friendly transport measures. At the same time, we're using a total of 10 billion. kr less oil crowns than the government. A more environmentally friendly and efficient transport policy is economically, practically and technologically fully feasible. The rail network in Europe is developing rapidly, in Norway the sale of electric cars has exploded, and the transition to emission-free road traffic is well ahead of us. However, it requires a strong commitment to increased use of the type of instruments for which electric car use is an example. The Green Party will have a rapid national expansion of high-speed charging stations and other zero-emission vehicle infrastructure. We want to strengthen Transnova by 350 million. kr. Today – as is known – the electric car revolution is slowed because the expansion of charging stations does not keep pace with the number of electric cars. The Green Party will promote the development of a European-level train offer, funded by cutting capacity-enhancing investments in the national road network and in Norwegian airports. Norway shall have good and safe roads, and the Environment Party of the Greens has a large budget of roads. Those parts of the country that do not have good collective options must also have good air services in the future. However, new development needs to be reserved for railways and public transport. That's why we're betting two billion. kr more than the civil parties on the road in 2014, and during this period we will start expansions that significantly shorten the journey time between the major cities of South Norway. Both the draft budget of the Solberg government and the draft budget of the Stoltenberg government are taking good steps in the right direction for collective action and railway operations. But it can still be done significantly more to speed up the Norwegian railway operation. We in the Green Party therefore prioritise an increase of half a billion in our alternative state budget for the planning and design of new railway lines, including intercity, Oslotunnel and measures on Bergensbanen that will reduce travel time to four hours. The railway station has estimated that the maintenance seat run is 16 billion. NOK, and in order to contribute to this being taken as quickly as possible again, we prioritise an increase of 2 billion in our alternative state budget. kr for maintenance and operation. Better public transport and more and safer bicycle routes reduce car use, make everyday life easier, are an advantage for local goods trading and create more pleasant neighbourhoods. We are therefore proposing to double the state allocation for the development of walking and cycling routes, while at the same time introducing a reward scheme for municipalities implementing good measures for bicycles and electric bicycles. Transport policy is characterised by acute refusal of priority — even in this area, the new government has taken over the old government’s practices, and they grant a little more to everything. This is a bad use of resources, and it makes bad progress. With clearer priorities, we can get a lot more. Finally, I would like to point out that the Committee's position contains three non-framework proposals to be voted on today. These are good proposals, and the Greens will vote in favour of the XXIV-XXVI proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e744	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e747	First of all, I would like to express my enthusiasm for the representative Rasmus Hansson and the Green Party's involvement in the Stortinget. That's the first reason I've got from the pulpit to say that. I look forward to the good cooperation that we can achieve in raising the good environmental issues and putting them on the agenda. My question to the representative is: Now there is a kind of block thinking, and before the elections, the Greens said that no decision was taken on which blocks you wanted to belong to. Have you now taken a closer look at this? And, if so, how does the representative see working more closely with the other environmental parties on the Storting to strengthen the budget, particularly on the collective action side, which is one of the major steps we can take to reduce emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e754	I would like to thank you for a pleasant question from the representative of Raja. From the Green Party, the whole point of our block-independent position is that we can always cooperate with those who deliver the best on the environment, in this case rail and collective action, above all. We note that the Left has had a very constructive role in government cooperation to improve public transport solutions. That also applies to the Christian People's Party. Of course, we look forward to cooperating with the two parties on that kind of improvement, while, of course, we will not hesitate to cooperate with the SV and the Workers' Party at the moment they can offer solutions and majority solutions that bring us even further forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e761	I am of the opinion that the Left has at present gained more on the environmental side than it may have been seen that another positioning party has been created by sitting in government. I show you, among other things: to the cooperation agreement where, by being outside the government itself, one has been able to stop, for example. extension in Lofoten, Vesterålen, Senja, etc. and some other things. I would also like to hear what is the representative's, the party's, view of biofuels. We think one of the most effective climate measures in the short term is to increase the blending of biofuels into petrol and diesel. How does the Greens feel about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e768	I am not surprised that the representative Raja thinks that Left is the best environmental choice on Stortinget – that's the way it should be. As regards the question of biofuels and their incorporation into ordinary petrol, there is a good example of one of the very many environmental measures that the Green Party is basically in favour of, because the environmental solution is a lot of environmental solutions. Then it is quite clear that the long-term objective of Norwegian transport is zero-emission transport. Transport based on liquid energy will have to be reserved for the areas where it must be used absolutely, and it is mainly heavy transport and eventually also aircraft.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e775	In the case of zero emissions, I share the ambition of the representative Hansson, and the future must be that the cars on the roads have zero emissions. Transnova is quite happy with the allocation that is now coming to place charging stations, to meet the increase in electric cars in Norway. The idea is that you should go all the way to electric cars, but I expect the representative also to agree that the cars will be there. Then it is important that you also have a reasonable investment on the roads, so that they do not fall due. I heard the representative in his post talking about a substantial pick-up from the road strike. How do you feel about having more electric cars? There will always be cars all over the country, and then you have to expand the infrastructure for these. If you take too much away from the road, the road decay will continue to increase, and it will again go at the expense of the electric drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e782	What lies in our budget of road-to-public transport distortions are funds that, after studies in the Ministry of Transport, we have found that we are going to draw from the road budget without going into direct conflict with contracts and projects that are under construction. That is, most of the existing road budget is present in our excellent budget for the completion of projects, security measures and maintenance, precisely on the basis of the assessment made by the representative Raja. But there's a very big difference between that and what's in today's budget, of which the representative Raja is part. There are twice as many used on the road as on the railway, and new motorways will be completed long before the new routes and thus in many ways exacerbate the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e788	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e791	I want to start by thanking the Stortinget for adopting a good budget today. I can promise that the government will manage the money and the orders in a good way, for the Storting and not least for the taxpayers and the country's inhabitants. Today, good decisions are being made in terms of appropriations, plans, the way we are going to implement the policy, and the way we are going to organise the public sector. When I became the Council of State, I looked in the drawers in the office I came to. There were many dusty documents there, many unexplained things that we're working on and will present the Storting as soon as possible. Fortunately, however, there were also many good reports by the civil service and others on how to better organise the public sector in terms of road development, railway development and similar things. Those reports I have with pleasure taken up and brushed off dust, and we will use them as a basis for the way we work. Because it's not just about how much money we donate – it's also about how it needs to be organized to get the most back for that money. Everyone knows that there are a lot of people who can run a store, but some people like to take advantage of customers because they provide better service and have better choice of products and better prices. Having a railway sector does not mean that it is irrelevant how to organise it. Building roads doesn't mean it's irrelevant how you organize it. We want to work so that we get more money back, and that we get more happy public employees who do the job because they have powers and opportunities and not too many bureaucratic guidelines. This government has already taken hold. We have already transferred port responsibility from the Coast Guard and the Ministry of Fisheries, which are now gone, to the Ministry of Transport. It makes it possible for us to think completely in a completely different way. We can see road, rail and aviation up against the port operations and have the same people sitting around one table instead of in several departments. We have moved more of the responsibility for broadband into the Ministry of Transport. The budget adopted has been strengthened following the government change. One should almost believe the opposite was the case when one hears some posts from the red-green parties, but there is actually more money for the different purposes – also for bicycles. More money is allocated to bike routes with the new government and cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, than the old government provided. So I just don't understand the criticism. Could this be a sample of the PISA study, which shows that there's a little bit too many people who can't do math well enough, when a blender plus and minus that way? Good infrastructure is important. It is central to a well-functioning economy. We focus on getting a simpler everyday life for both people and business, and having good infrastructure allows people to get a simpler everyday life. For those who travel to work – both those who have short work trips and those who commute longer – the trip they take 200–250 days a year must go faster and be more comfortable. We want those who transport our goods around the country to be able to do so with greater predictability and lower costs. Having good infrastructure enables us to expand our living and working areas and make people feel better in general. Then it is important that we invest in new infrastructure, but also that we maintain what we have. I think it is comforting when I hear red-green politicians saying that they deliberately have low priority maintenance, even though we know that this is where we can get the best effect for the money. It says business in particular. I would also like to stress that the national transport plan is to be over-implemented by this government. Those who claim that there is uncertainty about whether projects will be implemented have obviously not read the government platform. We say that we should implement the national transport plan – but we should implement more than national transport plan. Making it sound like we're going to do less than what was planned is going to be wrong. There are many plans in the road sector. It is important that we not only have plans, but that we implement planning in a good way. That's why we work intensively to cut the planning time. We need to improve working conditions and speed up clarifications for the Road Administration. Therefore, this government has already said that in the case of work on the E18 at Ramstadsletta, a start should be made two years earlier than the red-greens had suggested. We need to ensure good coherence between the project wishes and the way we finance it. Therefore, the government has said that we want to work out a road investment company and get a separate infrastructure fund. It ensures better organisation and greater predictability of funding. Then we need to discuss how large projects should be, how they should be implemented and how this should be resolved – the road investment company versus the state road system. I am sure that we will get a solution that makes them in Vegvesen feel that this is a good thing for both the Vegvesen and the new company. We need to bet more on maintenance. I am very pleased that the Storting now adopts an increased stake in just maintenance, and especially on the security side. Tunnel safety is a priority. There is no one in such a helpless situation as when they experience an accident, and become part of it because the escape routes are few and the area is being filled with smoke. Winter conditions are important. Many experience trailers standing across the roads. I also see with pleasure that the Workers' Party has begun to engage in this, and I hope they come up with recordings of things that the government itself has not thought about. For the time being, there's sadly little we get from the opposition there. We have already carried out a number of industry meetings, we have been in Sweden to set up a working group on this, we have carried out increased control activities at the border and we come up with several measures. We also welcome the fact that the opposition on Stortinget can contribute extra things. Then I am glad that the Workers' Party takes up the toll case and advertises for what the Advance Party wants, namely to remove the toll. In government, politics becomes a little different, but it's still a change of pace. Today is a historic day, because in this state budget, the red-green parties, in fact, also agree not to implement toll financing on a road that they proposed to the Stortinget before the elections to be financed. So the fact that we've got a new government shows that we have a different respect for the drivers and the taxpayers' money, because we're now saying that one should add basic government guarantees for toll companies. It's a different policy than the red-green one stood for. But now the red-greens are also behind that policy, and that's very good. The toll percentage is going down, and I record that many of the employees' staging representatives have asked the government how quickly it can happen, precisely because they themselves want it. Then it's a little strange when the Workers' Party in this room doesn't argue in line with what they're actually asking us to do. In the collective field, there's a lot you can do better than you've done. It is important to bet on both bus and rail, and I appreciate the fact that the committee in its comment says that it should also look at better country-wide bus offers. The government continues to work with both the reward scheme and the overall urban environment agreements. There we can get even better results than what you've added up to. In the case of maintenance, we strengthen that work. But there are also new projects. Common to this is that we have to see it in a context. I am very happy when one also calls for cross-border cooperation in transport – on the road and not least on the railway. I was as late as Tuesday and just discussed it with the Swedish Council of State that is responsible for it. I wonder why it hasn't been done before by other governments, because it was very, very productive. In the case of local collective infrastructure, this government has said that we should make a government contribution, preferably half of the investment cost, to the big promises. The Fornebuban is one such example, the Cityban in Bergen is another example. When this government has a more offensive approach to the Fornebuban than the previous government had in terms of both the timetable and the state share, I think it's a little interesting to experience that we're still being accused of a breach of promises. It's like seeing a football ball that's lost five to one, bullying the winning team because they didn't win seven to zero. It'll be a little bit weird. We are also working on the organisation of the major projects that are a national responsibility, namely the organisation of the Railway Agency and the NSB – terminal operations and the kind of things – and we will come back to Stortinget on a closer occasion. There is also a great deal of excitement in the area of ports and aviation. The representative Michaelsen talked a lot about air. We will further develop Avinor, and we will come back with good framework conditions for the industry that strengthens competition for the aviation sector. So in the case of ports, we've moved responsibility into the department. We want to develop a national port strategy, and we want to stimulate short sea shipping. There is a good strategy from the red-green about the status quo. We also want to fill it with content for how to stimulate this in the future. Work is also done within the postal and telecommunications area with things that will improve the offer of the country's citizens. There will be a new postal code to the Stortinget, probably on the spring side. I would like to stress, for those who have now been critical, that in that postal law we assume that it is going to be the Saturday distribution of newspapers, and that it is going to be a one-porto. So the questions that have been in the line changes so far appear to be a little irrelevant in relation to what the government itself says it should do. As far as telecoms is concerned, it is important that we get a better digging order in place than the previous government put forward, because it is important to bring down the costs of building up the infrastructure. There's digging that represents the cost there, not necessarily the cables themselves. Here we will also get better cooperation with the rest of the world, and that was one of the issues I raised, both when I was in Sweden on Tuesday and in Brussels on Monday. There's a lot of exciting happening. I am glad that Stortinget gives us the green light for this work and grants us good money to get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e845	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e848	I'm not so surprised that the Council of State has found a lot of good in the Ministry of Transport, because there are an incredible number of good people. I also think that all the good people have started a job that some nice former government councils have been involved in. So the government has found a lot of good there, I'm not surprised. The Progress Party proposed 455 billion in its proposal for a national transport plan. kr more than the red-green record bet – I wish I had had so much money, but I didn't. It is now stated in the statement that transport is one of the most important areas of activity. The blue-blue lots relate to the red-green adopted NTP and not to their own. Is it the case that a revised national transport plan will be drawn up with regard to the promises made? If you give Norwegian school students the opportunity to count on what the Progress Party promised in the election campaign in relation to what they deliver, I think it's going to be a number that's bigger than they've ever seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e855	The party of progress in government cannot conduct a purely party policy. I believe that a party like the Workers' Party, which promised a moon landing, which promised water in all the country's swimming pools, also understands that one cannot always carry out all one's will, simply because one has to cooperate with others. Then it's also a little bit about the ability to implement the promises you have – and not. There I believe that this government has already shown a greater power of action than the previous government. I look forward to implementing very good party and right-wing policies in government. We're getting a road investment company, an infrastructure fund and a lower share of toll than the previous government had promised. We already have over 2 billion. kr more for road, rail and cycle routes than the red-green ones provided. That we don't achieve what we would want once we've stood alone, is a little sad, I agree, but we achieve a lot more than what would have been the option if we had been outside the government and it was still a red-green policy. We are strengthening the area of transport. I think our voters appreciate that, and I also record that many in the Workers' Party would like it to be even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e866	I am very pleased that a Joint Committee has now joined a comment on the Ringeriksbanen, where we have suggested that this is planned so that the decision on the start of the project can be made when rolling the next NTP, and then for start-up in 2018. In the Progress Party’s NTP comments, it is shown that the lot in its current year’s alternative budget added 200 million. kr for start-up, and further on: ‘The Progress Party will build as completed.’ [[...]] What's shown here are old planes with single tracks and low speed. Will the Council of State, in the important planning work now under way, support the future of the Ringerix Railway, with double tracks, high speed and modern signalling systems?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e878	I can guarantee that the work done on the Ringerix Railway will be forward-looking. I am also very pleased that we have received a new government and a new large-scale majority saying that one should start planning already now. Because I register that in Bergen's Official Journal today, the Railway Agency says that the order they received from the red-green government was not to start planning for construction start in 2018, but it was to investigate this. An investigation costs a few million dollars, but it offers a lot of potential. Everyone knows that planning would cost tens or hundreds of millions of dollars, and it didn't tell the red-green parties when they were in government. That order they now get from the new government based on signals from the Storting, and therefore we will not only make sure that the track is forward-looking, but people will most likely be able to enjoy it much faster than if the previous government had still run.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e883	Of domestic freight transport, maritime transport has a market share of about 10 %. 41 pst. The forecasts for the economy and population trends indicate a growth in freight transport up to 40 pst. measured in tonne-kilometres towards 2040. Growth in road transport is expected to be much stronger than at sea if it is not seized. Maritime transport represents one of the solutions to Norway’s challenges in the transport sector. A ship alone can lift from 200 to 400 trucks straight off the roads. The maritime highways are there ready, ready for use, finished salted and broken. What is the government's progress towards a comprehensive national port strategy that can speed up the use of the maritime motorway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e892	It's a very important topic the representative addresses. This is something we're working on. We had a meeting on it in the department last night. Now that we have the opportunity to see this in its entirety, we can look at the following: if we stimulate port or short sea shipping with a few extra dollars, what does it mean for any saved maintenance on roads a few years in advance? Then we can make the kind of disposals where a small investment in one area today can bring great savings in other areas in the future. We're going to have a national port strategy. In this context, we also look at the stimulation of port cooperation between neighbouring ports for more specialisation in bulk, in containers and on other things. What can we do with the charging structure so that the cost per call drops? It will increase the competitiveness of trailers. What can we do to stimulate those who own the goods, so goods to be transported? Not only can we look at short sea shipping there, but we must also look at the transport of trailers. That is precisely why the work done on cabotage and the control of trailers at the border is very important, so that they do not understate the short sea shipping in that competition on a false basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e903	I am very pleased that the Minister for Transport assures me that the agreed transport plan is the one that will apply, because in the discussion of the transport plan in June, the then representative Hoksrud said it was going to last a month, and then he came to present his own. My first question goes to the road investment company, which is said to have priority responsibility. I would like to clarify what the link to the national transport plan will be, as priorities have been set in relation to plans in the future. The last question is about tolls. National transport plan provided for a reduction in the toll ratio during the NTP period. There was a consensus in Stortinget. I would like to hear a little about the criteria that the government will use for further work on reducing the toll ratio.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e913	This government shall over-comply with the national transport plan. That means we're going to carry out the projects that are in it, but we're also going to do extra things as well because we have more ambitions than the red-green ones added. Exactly how it is going to happen, we will present to the Storing, for those decisions have to be made here. I think it's a little strange to see the approach of the Central Party in this debate, because on Saturday a reading in Trønder-Avisa could read that the previous Minister for Transport was concerned that there was not enough money for Trønderbanen and Meråkerbanen, despite the fact that she herself had not deposited the money as Minister for Transport. In Stavanger Aftenblad on Tuesday, one read that former State Secretary Pollestad in the Ministry of Transport thought it was 8 billion. In the ministry, which could contribute to the speeding up of the construction of the railway, a project which had not received much money in the national transport plan. So making a lot of criticism and a lot of promises that you didn't even put into practice in the state budget seems weird. I'm just asking for trust that we show what we stand for, but we need more than two months to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e922	I must say that the Council of State is responding well for itself. I had hoped that the Council of State would also say a few words about a railway company and its progress. But we may get some answers later. I take the floor now because I believe that coordination of purchases for public transport – for trains, buses and trains, trams and boats through routes in the intercity counties will solve a major problem that is under way. This is because Router has a much cheaper offer because of its new pricing and zone structure than for NSB. Then it is not unproblematic that Router loses income when the company feeds the NSB with passengers. I believe that there will also be some billing challenges on this, and we in the Left want the government to engage in dialogue with Router to allow them to take over the responsibility for local genes in and out of Oslo with effect from 1 January 2014. The question then is: what does the Council of State think about this, and does the Council of State have a plan for how quickly we can get this in place, so that Router can take over the purchases of the train services in the intercity counties?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e935	First I want to thank you for your praise, and then I get to say thank you for a good question. In the case of a railway company, we're working on getting it in place. I had hoped for a little clearer order from Stortinget, but we will take the initiatives ourselves to that. With regard to the cooperation between NSB and Router, it could be better. It is natural that we work with state-municipalities and get it in place when we work with overall urban environmental agreements. It is then intended that a person should commit himself both from the municipality, from the county council and from the state on what kind of contribution to make, how to coordinate timetables, order roles and that kind of thing. I don't think we're going to shoot exactly what it should look like, because there are enough people here who will have interests – including the Transport Agency from the Left in Oslo. But I look forward to having a good dialogue with a constructive party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e944	I get to use a delayed, but nevertheless the first opportunity to congratulate the Council of State on a very important task. The Green Party will also praise the blue government constellation for a good increase and investment in railway appropriations. Nevertheless, the Environment Party de Greens believes that Norwegian transport policy is characterised by an acute refusal of priority. It emerges through the national transport plan, which is continued by the new government, where over twice as much money is spent on road construction as on rail in the next ten years, with the consequence that the quadruple motorways will not surprisingly last long before double-track rail. The question to the Council of State is: Is this a forward-looking way of developing Norwegian transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e951	Let me also say thank you for congratulations, and congratulations back. Then I see that the representative is dissatisfied with the balance between road and rail. I note that SV thought that balance was very good. That settlement will involve the environmental parties, or the environmental party and the so-called environmental party. I believe it is important that we have a bet both on the road and on the railway, for the bus and the electric car should also come forward. What's important is to make sure that we have a collective offer in and around the big cities that makes people who should naturally use collective solutions, actually choose it, for the bus, the railway, the tram and the city track should go relatively often, the trip should be pleasant, and it should be time-efficient. If people spend a lot more time taking the bus, they pick the car. But if people please spend a little bit more time on taking the bus, but can sit on the bus and read the iPad and do other things, I think actually many will prefer the bus. Our approach is not going to punish the drivers themselves, but it's going to make the offer more collective, so that one chooses it voluntarily. I think that's most forward-looking if we're going to be pragmatic.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e960	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e963	There may well be a lot of black and white in such budget debates, and so will be a lot of my contribution here too. I'd like to give constant praise and support to the government and to the Minister of Transport to be dedicated to strengthening maritime transport. I was in the last week at the Shipowners' Association's seminar in the Short Sea Group, where the Council of State overwhelmingly supported the fact that this government will follow up and pass on the previous government's commitment to strengthening maritime transport. In particular, it was gratifying that the Council of State was so clear that a good and close interaction with the maritime actors would be decisive for the implementation of the Short Sea Shipping Strategy and the NTP measures. Now, when I'm so overly excited about the government in this field, it's not least that the two parties that make up the government, until recently, have had a policy that would give the opposite effect, because in the current year's budget, the Progress Party proposed cutting 80 million. kr in the operating budget of the Coastal Plant, while the Right proposed a cut of 20 million. kr in the same entry. With the Council of State now expressing its commitment to strengthening maritime transport, I hope that there is no time needed in the budgetary process that is why these items are not being cut. For it is precisely the operating budget of the Coastal Works and the build-up of competences that is the main source of transport planning that is so important for the success of the short sea shipping strategy. So it was this about being a little balanced in the debate. The government's budget cut of 46 million. As a consequence, kr to fishing ports will have the effect that the repairs to the fishing port of Napp in Nordland and Sommarøy in Troms have not been carried out in 2014 as planned. This has a direct impact on the fishing fleet and on the companies in these ports. The fact that these investments are now at best delayed also means that other important fishing port expansions along our coast are now being put on hold, and that they are then moving even further back in line for the construction of fishing ports. Only in my home country, Hordaland, do we have Austevoll and Bømlo, who are highly dependent on state involvement in developing fishing ports that are suitable for a modern fishing fleet and modern land-based fishing farms. Especially in a time of great attention to the two divisions of the Norwegian economy, it is important that we also have an offensive commitment from the state to industrial development along our coast before non-oil industries. The working party will not agree to cut 46 million. kr to the fishing ports of Napp and Sommarøy. The red-green government left behind a very good budget for transport for 2014, with an increase of 16.3 p.m. from the current-year's old-age budget. The right-wing party government has essentially chosen to maintain the offensive budget that we presented, but compared with the lifting of the government parties before the elections, the budget for transport we are about to adopt today can also be seen as a major crash landing, for the Progress Party promises to eliminate all the tolls, while the Right promises new ideas and better solutions. There is little left of this when the government is now mainly passing on our red-green budget, and the Transport Committee has been gathering on most of the comments. An area in which the government and the budgetary cooperation party differ from the rest of the opposition is threatened by OPS as a method for organising and financing major transport projects. Right-wing Alternative NTP launched that 17 major road projects were to receive OPS funding, while the impending Transport Policy Spokesman for the Progress Party, Bård Hoksrud, characterised OPS as the Right Magic Formula and said that OPS is ‘heavy-heavy-heavy-heavy’. Finally, I would just like to stress that we in the Labour Party are busy getting as fast and efficient road and track development as possible, but we will not send unpaid bills to future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e993	On Tuesday, I was with the Minister of Industry on a tour of Sunnmøre, where we showed a lot of the business that exists in our region, with a special focus on the maritime cluster and on furniture. We had meetings with a lot of companies and got to discuss business policy in its full scope. What's interesting is that there's one requirement left for everyone wherever we are: we have to dry out to bet more on traffic and infrastructure! For an export-oriented business, it is about getting goods shipped in and out of the region and country. This means good and safe transport solutions for goods on the road, rail and not least at sea. I also experience a business that is concerned with the environment and that would like to use environmentally friendly transport solutions where available. Increased use of maritime transport and rail is a goal of this government. A large part of the traffic on our road network is short-distance, i.e. that there is a travel distance of approx. 50 to 60 km. It is people who travel to and from work and leisure activities in what are natural areas of residence and labour market. It is crucial for further growth and development in our diverse and long-term country that we actually manage to build up the regions and create attractive conditions for those who will live and work there. That's why we're dedicated to relieving ferries and building good roads – and so removing obstacles in everyday life for most people – and that's why we need to develop good collective solutions to meet the great population growth and make our cities affordable. It's about building the country for everyone. In a short time, this government has provided an ambitious budget for transport, with increased investment on both road and track – not least we have increased efforts to maintain and spend more money on planning. At the same time, we know that we have inherited great challenges. To remove the decay and make the necessary upgrades on the highway network, the State Road Administration calculated that we need to spend between 31 and 47 billion. kr. Corresponding figures for the county road network are between 47 and 78 billion. kr – formidable figures, which will require a long-term and targeted effort in the coming years, from government and growth. The government budget for 2014 shows a willingness to do something about the problem, and the government statement offers for further efforts. Following the administrative reform in 2010, a large part of the roads were transferred to county municipalities. I myself have experience in county policy and have seen how demanding it is for the county council to handle this responsibility, not least the large maintenance set-up. In the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, the Stoltenberg Government assessed that the county municipalities would not be able to resume the maintenance set-up without exceptional State funding. That's probably right. National transport plan gave an indication of 10 billion. kr in the ten-year period, but in the 2014 draft budget it was only followed up by the Stoltenberg government with 500 million. kr. The right-hand party government has increased the transfers by a further 280 million. NOK 780 million. kr, for county roads. What's even more amazing is that the red-green government in this situation chose to wind up the interest-rate compensation scheme, a system that allows county councils to actually invest up to 2 billion. kr in 2014 with interest compensation. It's like making a diagnosis, but refuse to print prescriptions on the necessary medicine. A well-functioning railway network is important throughout the country for the transport of both goods and persons. In the central eastern region, the development of intercity sections is essential to address the major transport challenges of a highly growing metropolitan region. That's why it's set at 100 million. kr for the planning of intercity in the 2014 budget. The 2014 budget is historically high for the railway sector, both for investment and for maintenance. This means that the projects in the national transport plan can follow planned progress. It also means that maintenance of existing sections is strengthened and will contribute to increased safety and punctuality. A good transport policy is not just about money. The government has already started work on significant reforms in the transport sector – reforms that are absolutely necessary to meet the major challenges ahead of us and that should have been implemented several years ago. A separate road carrier will be established. This company will be responsible for the planning and implementation of major and important road projects. Such a company would have to have sufficient equity and a cash flow that would provide the necessary predictability, while at the same time being able to borrow. This will be a good way to create greater predictability of funding, while perhaps depoliticating the actual implementation of the projects. As politicians, we are very good at talking about the importance of building completely. A road carrier will be an important tool to get to it. Similarly, we will reform the railway sector. There we have already received good input from key actors. A company organisation in line with what is planned in the road sector, I think is also relevant to the railway sector. At the same time, it is time to re-examine good plans for the competitive deployment of major routes in order to make an even better offer to travellers. Another important instrument for which the red-greens have chosen not to use is Public Private Cooperation. This is primarily a way of organising the development of major projects in which contracts are concluded with private companies implementing the development and are responsible for operation and maintenance for a period of perhaps 20-25 years. Seeing investment and operations/maintenance in the context has shown that smarter solutions are being chosen. Experience also shows that projects are being implemented more quickly and the risk of exceedances is being transferred to the builder. In a Public Private Cooperation, it is possible to choose many financing solutions and amortisation schemes adapted to the specificities of the various projects. By doing this correctly, it is possible to build more road and track faster and at an agreed price. For this government and for this vast majority of people, it's more important than getting caught up in an ideological predicament. Most governments have had an ambition to move more of the freight traffic from road to sea. It will have a positive environmental impact, while at the same time it will relieve large parts of the road network. The Right-wing Party Government has transferred responsibility for the Coastal Agency to the Ministry of Transport. This will make it easier to coordinate the various modes of transport and to find good solutions between maritime transport, road and rail. However, we cannot adopt ourselves for more maritime transport. Should more people choose maritime transport, this mode of transport must be competitive. An important measure is to facilitate effective interconnections between modes of transport. Then we have to be willing to take a closer look at the port structure and the way we organize the ports. The government has started work on a new national port strategy. It will be an important tool to see ports in context and coordinate the infrastructure both on land, in port and at sea. It is important that the work on the port strategy is implemented quickly, so that important developments are not put at risk. The level of costs of maritime transport is a determining factor in the choice of transport solutions. The Health Declaration announced a review of the charging structure to strengthen maritime transport. The objective must be to make maritime transport a competitive mode of transport for goods in terms of both availability and cost levels. This item has been subject to major changes over the last 10 to 20 years. A large part of the postal market has been opened up to competition and the structure of postal offices in all municipalities has changed. Changes are often met by scepticism, but in retrospect, there is rarely anyone who wants to go back to the old schemes. For example, the Post in Store has given us post offices that are open from early morning to late evening. In addition, many tasks can be solved electronically. Opening up the entire postal market to competition will, in my opinion, provide a better overall offer. At the same time, all will be secured mail accommodation at least five days a week and equal postage for individual consignments throughout the country. There is nothing in the Postal Directive that would prevent us from maintaining a good quality of postal services for all citizens. I would also like to link some comments to the national transport plan. In the comments on the budget, the Workers' Party and the Centre are amazed that we are based on the adopted National Transport Plan. They shouldn't be. It is quite natural for this government — and all other governments — to build on the national transport plan adopted by the Stortinget at all times. At the same time, we have a new majority in the Grand Duchy, and there will be a need to adapt the national transport plan to the priorities of the new majority. We will come back to that in terms of individual matters, when OPS projects are started and when the construction of the road carrier. The new government and the new growth majority have great ambitions for the transport sector. In short, we want to build more roads and paths faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1029	When the Stoltenberg government presented its budget for 2014, the railway was the winner in their budget. It showed an increase in the 2013 budget of over 30 p.m. There were probably many happy train enthusiasts when this became known. But the joy grew even greater when the blue-blue government presented its changes. We were delighted to increase what the government had forgotten, namely an increased investment in maintenance, by 500 million. kr, plus an increased bet on the intercity projects, of more than 100 million. kr. In the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the maintenance of the railway became an important theme. One thing is certain: we have to bet on maintenance to ensure the stability of train traffic. Tracked maintenance on the railway is large. A realistic estimate is that it will cost approx. 17 B.C.E. kr to get rid of what we have, or get up to date. The maintenance has gone slowly, but probably downwards over a long time and under changing governments. It probably wouldn't have been possible for those who built today's railway in their time. Then I think of my grandfather, who in the early 1900s helped build the route Kongsberg-Kristiansand. Not having maintained our assets will now cost us dearly. We might also say that the maintenance service is the main cause of rail traffic’s poor operational stability, and the network is vulnerable to race and flooding. This makes it even more important to get up to date with the maintenance. Because if people are going to use the railway more, and if companies are going to transfer more goods from road to track, we're dependent on the train going and coming when it's going to. The words ‘There is always a train running, but we don’t know where it stops’ have to end. Efforts at operation and maintenance are also important for those who live by repairing and renewing the railway. That's why it's particularly important that there's work for them, so that we don't lose valuable labour and the skills they have in that area. The new government has great ambitions, and we show action. We will resume the maintenance phase in the infrastructure, but it will have to be taken over a few years and will have to be assessed on the basis of the budgetary situation at all times. But we have the will and the ability to do something about it. These are the new appropriations for maintenance that the Right and Advance Party, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, have entered in the budget for 2014, a good proof of this. The government contributes 750 million. kr more to the railway than the red-green government provided. In addition to the 600 million. NOK I've already talked about, we've added 150 million. extra kr to repair damage after flood and race. It's an important job. But I also want to commend the old, red-green government for having increased investments on the railways in recent years, because there is a broad political consensus that we will be investing in the railways and infrastructure in the years ahead. Only in 2014 we're going to spend 10 billion. kr for planning and investment in new railways. I'm glad. In fact, I think the opposition is also satisfied that we have increased the investment for 2014 by 750 million. kr on maintenance and the IC bet. If the opposition is dissatisfied with it, it cannot be because we have allowed too little money, because then they should have done something about it themselves. No, then they must be dissatisfied because we have allowed too much money, and then we take it as a compliment. Electronic services have come to stay. These services respond more to the communication needs of enterprises, but perhaps so much to individuals. We already know that regular letters with the post office become less rare and less rare – with the exception of bills and Christmas cards. As e-mails and other electronic services are in progress, we need to assess which services and the level of costs the Post should oblige the State to subsidise. The consequences of liberalisation have been thoroughly investigated, and we know that electronic services are more difficult to deal with for the Post than to introduce competition. On Saturdays, only one quarter of the mail volume is re-allocated on other weekdays. The obligation to distribute on Saturdays should be limited to areas of the country where the need is greatest, for example: where there is no other person who can deliver the Saturday paper. We all know the good feeling of being able to pick up today's newspaper for morning or morning coffee when we are free for once. There has been considerable consensus in broadband policy for a long time. In Norway, we have better broadband than in most other countries in the world. In the government platform, we have high ambitions for expansion. Cooperation with the industry is the key, and we will facilitate that the builders continue to compete and, of course, also invest well in all parts of the country. We want to participate in and grant subsidies for expansion where today there is no coverage of commercial builders, and we want to strengthen the expansion where market players do not find it economic or accounting equivalent to investing. The use of broadband will increase in the future. Therefore, the government continues to seek good competition between the different technologies, providers and business models in the broadband market. Broadband for everyone is the target.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1065	The red-green government left a very good budget for trade in 2014, which was just right. I therefore wonder a little about the passing of the nearest sense of tongue that the Council of State expressed. It is very good that a lot of money is spent on transportation, and that NTP, which we now have very much in common in this room, is being fulfilled. The aim of the Workers' Party is that people and businesses throughout the country should have a good and efficient transport offer. It is important that cities and districts have a well-developed road and public network. It is essential for businesses and jobs, for regional development and for the everyday life of the individual. Road development in many places improves access to jobs. The national transport plan balances well between city and country investments. It is a national transport plan based on a solid analysis of transport needs across the country — so good that the Progress Party chose to make it its own after the elections. Among some of the preliminary work on the national transport plan was a report by the Transport Economic Institute, which shows that road development offers the potential to expand regions, for population growth and for increased labour supply in rural areas. I hope it's a report that the Council of State has not let dust down. When the Right Party and the Advance Party talk about road betting, they're almost exclusively concerned with the transport years between the big cities, with recurring rhetoric that we have to spend the money where the needs are greatest. Of course, it invests where the needs are greatest, both now and in the future, but we cannot have it so that all the increased funds go to this. Then, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, one will abandon the priorities of the National Transport Plan, as the Government Parties have said. The response to the challenges of transport in the press areas is not, of course, to weaken the potential for development in the districts, on the contrary. Unfortunately, the signals given by the Council of State respond incorrectly to the challenges of the nation. In order to cope with population growth and traffic growth, it is more important than ever that we contribute to growth and development outside the key areas of the press. I think the local representative gave a very good picture of the enormous needs for transport solutions that exist in the districts where export values are going from district to market. There are many cities and agglomerations in this country that have benefited greatly from road projects that have been carried out without tolls under the red-green government. Well-established local toll projects have also been paid down faster than estimated, as a result of traffic growth. Violence on Sunnmaere can serve as an example. There, the Eiksund Association and Kvivsvegen Volda projects focus on a housing and labour market region of nearly 65,000 people. By car from Volda you can commute within 45 minutes of ferry free to design Stryn, the maritime cluster in Ulstein and the offshore environment in Herøy. Similar examples are found elsewhere in the country. The party's dogmatic approach to tolls has actually been front-line. Now marginal bomb projects are being picked back a few places in the country, while later today we will unanimously adopt new ones. Maybe you can characterize it as principles equipped with an autopass. The working party will continue the change in pace we have had in transport investment since 2005. We will give priority to the major links between cities in order to ensure good and fast transport for business and passenger transport. At the same time, however, we need to give priority to projects contributing to the enlargement of rural housing and labour market regions. This is the only way that transport policy can contribute to urban and rural development and address a nation’s challenges in terms of value creation, housing and, not least, everyday life for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1084	There is a alarming need for large investments in the transport sector. It applies to road, to rail and to aviation. But the biggest challenge is perhaps what former State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance pointed out in Stavanger Aftenblad last autumn: «Many road projects are socio-economically viable. But that doesn't mean they necessarily give increased income to the state. For example, gains in the form of increased leisure time as a result of reduced travel time will not generate increased revenues’. The fact that you're in line, off your leisure time, of your time with family and friends, of your time for hobbies or volunteer work – in short, things that the government doesn't make money on. And then maybe it's not that careful? We in the Right think that your time is valuable, and we are willing to think new to find the best solutions for the future. We are therefore very pleased that today we are dealing with a road budget that shows the government's willingness to invest in infrastructure. The expectations of the red-green producers during their submission of the NTP were significant. Unfortunately, it has been found that the red-green government had not in any way added up to overfilling in project implementation – it was only in the use of money. The fact that there has been an increased willingness to invest in transport in recent years means that the red-green government – and a total increase – must have boasted. But it actually has to be invested even more, and we have to make sure that the money is used correctly. We need to ensure that more traffic krones actually contribute to several completed projects, more maintenance and new investments. We need to organise ourselves better, and we need to use all the forces that can help make Norwegian transport more efficient and more forward-looking. The budget for 2014 is the first step in the right direction. Infrastructure is not only transport but also fundamental to the possibility of digital communications. Facilitating societal use of ICT and a high level of participation in society is very important. It all points to the increasing importance of ICT solutions in the public sector as well. Public funded services need to be produced smarter tomorrow than today. We simply need to be better at using the resources that we have available, and we need to look for new opportunities. Today, it is quite clear that the public has enormous challenges with lack of efficiency and expensive bureaucracy. The sum of single examples shows us that something basic has been missing in the development of the public sector. According to the Directorate of Administration and ICT, it is actually only 30 pst. of the most widely used state services today that are fully digitised — and this in the world country with the highest digital participation and competence in the population. Speaking of competence, we need to ensure the availability of skills through sound basic education and a high level of education for ICT and echoes, but also through enhanced recruitment opportunities from home and abroad. The government has announced high ambitions for broadband expansion. However, increased digital information flows also lead to increased requirements for secure and stable network access. There is a need to improve coordination and interoperability between authorities, service providers and other stakeholders. It becomes particularly evident in vulnerable situations in extreme weather, where there are high expectations of rapid bugfixing. New and improved technologies are constantly giving rise to new opportunities. In the transport sector, ITS is defined as a separate area of interest, but no objective has been defined. It's very unfortunate. The transport sector needs a good assessment of how new technologies can help us achieve future-oriented objectives in terms of safety, accessibility, environment and accessibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1116	In the Transport Committee, we have been so lucky to receive an increase in the appropriations in relation to what the Stoltenberg government presented just under two months ago. It may not always work that way, because in the way that many of the red-greens have appeared after our additions became known, it may seem that they are dissatisfied that we are not increasing enough. It is in any case a criticism that boasts easily with us, but if they are serious, it is probably a bit deeper at Stoltenberg, who, after all, has clearly presented a budget for the transport of the red-green themselves. I am at least happy with the additions we have received, because it clearly shows that this government thinks differently than the previous one. During the debate on the Government Declaration, I said that I was delighted to be a part of the political majority responsible for the policy to be pursued in this country. I pointed out in particular that I was delighted to be responsible for what we are going to do in the field of transportation. Even after seven weeks, I can say that I am satisfied with the new direction that the new government and the big crowd are pulling up. What we see is that we're betting even more on the road and even more on the railway than what the red-green government put up to. We said in the election campaign that transportation was a field of activity – and we follow up with action and appropriations. We are concerned that a well-developed and maintained infrastructure gives people the freedom to travel to and from work, to expand living and working conditions, and that infrastructure is important for companies throughout the country to be competitive. We now have a majority who understand the importance of a good road network, which understands that road construction is good district policy, good urban policy and good industrial policy. We now have an offensive majority on Stortinget that will make changes that will make sure that each crown of transportation in the years to come will be used more wisely. Road construction and road financing in Norway need reforms to achieve innovation and modernisation, and we now have a majority to make these changes. We will now set up a separate road development company to lift several road projects and implement them more effectively. The company should assume the responsibilities for the development, operation and financing of large-scale transport projects and it should also be assessed whether to transfer some of the existing projects to the company. It will receive equity, but it will also have the opportunity to borrow money, which will make it independent of the annual budgets. This will ensure that instead of building piece by piece and division, we can now implement projects better, cheaper and faster than before. This is a crucial grip. Large projects have suffered for a long time from a lack of holisticity, long planning time and a lack of government funding, something that such a company would like to change. I am otherwise very pleased that a joint transport committee now opens up the possibility of a government guarantee scheme for toll loans, in order to contribute to lower borrowing rates, and that the government, in cooperation with local authorities, can now consider changing toll rates and toll periods. These are new thoughts from the other parties that will ensure that more money will go to road construction instead of to operation, administration and interest. Just two days ago, the Western Council, composed of representatives from Rogaland, Hordaland, Sogn and Fjordane and More and Romesdal, was gathered for a meeting. For transport reasons, the meeting was held at Gardermoen. This is a clear evidence that infrastructure and communications along the West have a great potential for improvement. I am therefore very pleased that the Storting is concerned that the ferry-free E39 is a very important project, and I am pleased that we have a government that has said that it will overfill the NTP. Combined with a dedicated road development company that will ensure that the money will be spent more rationally, this is good news for all the housing and working regions that depend on a better infrastructure along the coast. I will end by saying that I look forward to further working on the Transport Committee, a committee which most of the parties on the Stortinget clearly want to give even more priority in the future. It promises well and points to good working conditions in the committee, and it will produce good results for the citizens of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1154	Today, we are going to adopt an important budget for the whole of Norway, and we know that transport is something that everyone is concerned about. The aim of the Workers' Party is that people and businesses throughout the country have a good and efficient transport offer. Both cities and districts need a well-developed road and public network. It is essential for businesses and jobs and for the everyday life to be increased for the individual. Today’s debate may almost seem that the Workers’ Party is not concerned with these values, but we are – and we have shown that for eight years. Investments in the way have increased sharply in recent years. It is important for accessibility and road safety and for reducing travel time for people and businesses. So when committee leader Hofstad Helleland says we've increased a little bit, it's probably not 90 pst. increase from 2005 ‘small’? But the Minister of Transport showed in his presentation the PISA result and the link to the Stortinget. Then I assume that it was not just the opposition to which he was aiming. Compared to the promises made by the Right Party and the Advance Party before the elections, there is no doubt that today's transport budget can be called a major crash landing. The advance party has gone hard on the track and promised to abolish all tolls, the Right has promised new ideas and better solutions. I see little of this in the proposal that is here. It is mainly the NTP, the red-green budget, which is under consideration today. That is why I can also boast of today's government and today's Transport Committee, because they have mainly joined the red-green proposals for the 2014 budget. We also see that the Committee agrees mainly on most of the increases that have been introduced for 2014 – although it cannot be heard this way from the debate here today. When we couldn't be fully involved, that's a natural explanation: that's because the mode of coverage was increased oil money use, redistribution from regional development funds and tax cuts for the richest. If they wanted to spend more money on the road, they could have chosen to spend more of the money they spent on the tax haven. We also see that they are adding a new course. This is best seen in the notes, but we can also look at some of the cut suggestions. The post was cut by 50 million. kr, and you cut the mail transport to five days and open up for privatisation. This will lead to a worse offer — not least for districts — even if one tries to argue for something else. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have also announced that they will withdraw the veto of the Red-Green Government against the EU's Third Postal Directive, which we see not least has provoked the Federal Director of Postkom Odd Christian Överland, and I will quote him: ‘We have received a government that pursues foreign policy in reverse countries. They are more concerned with logging for the EU than with providing a good and predictable postal policy serving Norway.’ I fully agree with that. Now that they have plans to open the postal market in Norway to competition, the new government should first of all, at least before they do so, look at the possibilities for them to have it for people and businesses throughout the country – but no! We see that people don't want this – if you're going to take the polls seriously. It also applies to the voters of the government parties. It is not surprising that the Progress Party and the Right are in favour of this, it is more disappointing that the Christian People's Party supports it, because they have not done so before. They're also cutting 46 million. kr to fishing ports, which go beyond the fishing ports of Napp in Northern and Summer Island in Troms. The justification is an alert national strategy. I read this more like that the funds for the fishing ports should go to ports of refuge. I hope I'm wrong. They increased the grant of 280 million county roads. kr will not be very good when you cut at the same time 430 million. kr in regional development funds. I have also noticed that you will not support the comment on the Nordlandsbanen that you were in the NTP. I hope it's an accident at work and not a new government policy on this route. The Helgeland road package has not been clarified. Upgrading it has been withdrawn, and we are still waiting for it to win in the draw from the Minister of Transport on tolls or not. Finally, we also see that today is a special day. It is not only that the Advance Party shall vote in favour of a bomb, but they shall also say yes to OPS.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1189	The government says in its platform that they want to pursue offensive climate policies and strengthen climate reconciliation. In this perspective, public transport is both right and important. The strong population growth we experience is leading to an increased need for investment in heavy infrastructure in the major cities. Responsibility for public transport is mainly shared between two levels of government – the state and the counties including the Municipality of Oslo. The interaction between these levels of government is therefore crucial. The reward system and the urban environment agreements must enable owners to respond to the need for public transport – whether by bus, boat or rail. It is worth noting that the bus is still the main means of public transport. Building roads with good accessibility is therefore a good collective measure — with or without collective fields. An important point in the climate agreement is to get more of the freight across sea and rail. In order for the railway to be competitive, we need to be sure that the train is running when it needs to, and that it arrives in time. It is therefore maintenance and renewal important. Next year it will be used for over 19 billion. kr on the railway. However, we must note that the maintenance run on the existing railway is large. It has to be taken over several years and assessed according to the budgetary situation in each year. The right-wing Party government took a first step in the additional proposition, and with the budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party we are further increasing. In order to achieve the ambitious objectives of the NTP for intercity traffic and to plan other important routes, intensive planning is already required. The budget agreement with an increase of 100 million. kr ensures that it is possible. This addition also ensures that we have the other major railway planning tasks done. The budget agreement also provides for further development to be planned for Gothenburg, in order to strengthen an important cross-border train link. This is a long-term bet. In 2000, the aim was to extend the E6 between Oslo and Gothenburg to the four-field motorway. We did it. As part of the 100th anniversary of 1905, the new Svinesund Bridge was opened. Now it's time to set a corresponding goal for the railway. The Stoltenberg Government’s proposal for the 2014 rail budget was an expansive budget with an increase in the 2013 budget of more than 30 pst. However, there were two important shortcomings in the proposal: the maintenance of infrastructure and the planning of new projects were too low a priority. Not least for the planning of new IC projects. In these two key areas, there was not enough money to ensure a good follow-up to the National Transport Plan 2014-2023 or to maintain the railway infrastructure. We have done something about this in the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. We're increasing the stakes on maintenance by 500 million. kr and planning of new IC projects of 100 million. kr. The commitment to maintenance is necessary to improve the operational stability of train traffic, while increased planning appropriations are necessary to maintain the objectives for the development of the IC routes. The budgetary agreement between the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left implies that the appropriations for railway applications increase by 34,6 pst. from the aged budget 2013 the Railway Agency is increasing by 42.3 pst. infrastructure operation and maintenance increases by 16.8 pst. maintenance in 2014 increases by 39,2 pst. investments in new railway infrastructure increase by 64,4 pst. from the 2013 balanced budget The 2014 budget means that the NTP planning framework for 2014 will be followed up with a total of 25.5 pst. or 341.4 million. kr over the annual average for the planning period. The follow-up to the 2014 railway investment planning framework is 27,1 pst. or 788 million. kr above the average annual planning framework for the period 2014 to 2017. This is necessary for, inter alia: to be able to maintain rational progress in the large investment projects under way and launch new projects planned to start in 2014. Not least this concerns the launch of the major Folloban project, where the major works will be started as soon as the ongoing work on external quality assurance is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1229	I think it might now be time to get the smile out of this debate, for the husband of a negative description of the situation in the Kingdom is it long since I've heard. So mutt and dissatisfaction were the Minister of Transport, that I wonder if he really is inappropriate in the position he has. It's a big day, it's a historic commitment to transportation. We should be proud today. The Minister and others should remove the geypsum and bring out the smile. Fortunately, transport investment has increased sharply in recent years. It's been a change of pace. We have a budget for next year at approx. 50 B.C.E. kr for transport purposes. There must be something positive to trace in such a budget. I've calculated – unless I'm an example of the bad math skills we hear about the day – and if my calculations are correct, there's something like that. 2 pst. of the budget we disagree on. Overall, this is a very good transport budget. Norway is a good country to live in. Most of it works well -- let's admit it. But, of course, there's still enough of the challenges. We'll never finish developing our country, never finished building it. This is the essence and dynamics of politics. Our job as elected representatives is simply to make everyday life a little bit better, a little bit simpler. Therefore, transport in a country such as Norway is also so important. People should be able to get to work without too much clutter and staples – it should actually be quite easy to get to work. It's our responsibility. Goods and goods must arrive at their destination. There is a great deal going on in the transport sector in Norway, both on the road and on the road. If in doubt, there is reason to recommend a trip to Eidsvoll and see what is now happening along Mjösa – a huge project with the development of a new double track and a new four-field road. It's a pleasure for the eye to see the railway and road development there and elsewhere. Rail has its main advantage in long-distance freight transport and passenger transport in areas with relatively large numbers of people. The largest bottlenecks on the network are therefore natural enough in the most central strata, in the Oslo area. Therefore, the next major project on the railway that now needs to be realised is to build new double tracks Oslo-Ski, the so-called Folloban. It is good that we now start this big project, and Follobanen is also an important piece in the intercity bet on the East – the entire intercity bet from Lillehammer, Halden and Skien. In this perspective, the Ringeriksbane also belongs westwards. It is gratifying that it now appears that the planning of the Ringeriks course is gradually under way – it is high time. There is a great need for more and better train traffic in the Oslo area. The maintenance has been underestimated for over ten years. Fortunately, it's now speeded up, and it's a pleasure that over the last few years and in the year to come, it's become more money to maintain the railway we have. But in addition to maintaining what we have, we have to build a new one, both the Folloban, the Ringerix Railway and other projects, and eventually we have to set up a new railway tunnel through Oslo. Finally, I would like to say a little bit about new models to organise the railway. I'm basically completely open to that, and I was so lucky to be in political leadership in the Ministry of Transport in 1996 when the old NSB was reorganized into the new NSB and the Railway Agency. It was a sensible reorganization, but not unproblematic either. No reorganisation is unproblematic. I'm more uncertain about the separation of the production plant in the state road system into what became Mesta, and as the Bondevik II government did. I don't think that was a wise choice. What we need least of all is even more units, even more companies within the railway. If we're going to criticise any of the reorganisations that happened at the end of the 1990s, it's that there were a lot of units -- a lot of units to relate to each other. We don't need even more units and even more organs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1250	There has been a confusing budget debate, in which the red-green representatives in the financial debate, on the one hand, have said that this country will be terribly poor when we start the budgetary agreement that we have got in place. On the other hand, you're on the same platform and you're saying 99 pst. by the budget is really red-green. It's a logical flaw, ask me. While we know that red-green representatives boast of their own budget, there are many around the municipality of Norway who are also red-green, screaming for larger appropriations for road maintenance – while on the other hand you stand here in Stortinget with a submitted government budget that is not willing to go in that direction. It's not like in ancient times: that the road was there while you were walking – or as a Norwegian colleague a little unwisely described it, that the boat is being built while you're ruddering. Today, the construction of infrastructure requires a great deal of resources and a strong commitment to political priority. Fortunately, we are facing a time when that will is much stronger than before. Norway cannot compete on wages and salaries, so the Right Party government will realise the knowledge society. It's about giving individuals the opportunity to realize themselves, work smarter and take advantage of the advantages of our long-range country. In this context, investment in transport and infrastructure will be important in order to succeed in building the trust society – the society built from below, where knowledge of the opportunities and challenges lies locally and regionally, with road, rail, port and aircraft providing greater competitiveness and facilitating future growth and investment through growth-enhancing tax incentives. Norway is a great country to live in, but Norway is also a long country to live in. The government and Norway's commitment to the north, which will create values and opportunities that can build the country further and secure its well-being, is a challenge if we do not have the infrastructure in place. The northern regions are not only marked by large values but also by large distances. Along our beautiful coastline – from north to south – enormous values are created. In particular, farming and the values of the marine food industry have given many communities a new opportunity to build good housing and labour market regions with interaction, good services and an economic growth that promises good for the future. Our nation's ability to exploit these resources and opportunities requires an infrastructure that reaches these communities, not just a good route of descent. It is therefore very gratifying that the budgetary agreement and the political platform of the Right-wing Party government have begun the course that will give us a historic commitment to trade as early as next year. But it's not just about money. It's also about throwing ideological thoughts overboard. Our small, long-term country cannot afford – no country can afford – not to choose the smartest and best solutions when we are going to invest for the future. We must build and realize the knowledge society from below, have confidence in the creativity of the individual community. When the state can organise and operate development projects in cooperation with skilled entrepreneurs who have experience and who are well on the way to building both faster and more reasonably – which also means having a well maintained road – we have to choose them. Indeed, it must be built whole, smart and for the future. As a former regional politician, I can subscribe to the despair of what can lead to major delays and poorly maintained roads, both for society and business, but also for the heart pump of poor state politicians who have in many ways felt like hostages in a completely failed regional reform. For my home country of Troms, state emergency has resulted in the county now having 11 pst of the national maintenance seat run, which for Troms alone is estimated at 6 billion. kr. In the last period, when the red-green government announced a significant rise, there were many state politicians who finally looked forward to a reduction in blood pressure. The problem was therefore great when we were told that this bet would be 10 billion. DKK over 10 years. In the municipal economic proposal, the amount was reduced to 650 million. kr for the first financial year, and when the State budget was presented, it was further reduced to 500 million. kr. I know of many red-green politicians who were deeply disappointed by their own government at that point. Policies are about prioritizing, and with the budgetary agreement to be adopted, both the will and the ability of the civil parties to give priority to additional billions have been demonstrated in a short time. That's a good promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1273	There are few things that create more debate in this house than way – where we're going to build them, and who's going to pay for them. Gradually, we have also had major debates on how to ensure that roads are built and financed as efficiently as possible, and that is good, and that is necessary. Over the last eight years, the whole transport sector has been given a formidable boost. From being a desktop document that does not meet current governments, the NTP has become an ambitious, obliging plan that the Stoltenberg government not only fulfilled but overfilled. In a new NTP that was adopted in the spring, once again a formidable raise in money use was introduced. However, investment in the scale of the transport sector also requires that we constantly ensure that the funds are used as efficiently as possible, and it must be acknowledged that not all expansions have always been equally effective. The planning processes have too often taken too much time, there has been too much construction and it has happened clumsily and divided, instead of having an overall approach, and I think we should admit that it has cost both time and money. I am one of those who believe that one of the most important steps that was taken in the new NTP was not just about how much money we were going to spend, but well so much about the launch of a new scheme for financing major road and rail projects. That mechanism would ensure that, in particular, priority projects — projects of national importance — would receive project funding within the budget. Project progress shall determine the appropriations and not vice versa. That was the way of thinking. Such a mechanism will allow projects to be planned more efficiently, more comprehensively, without having to take account of any budgetary eventualities. Obviously, something like that will bring down the planning time. The party of the Minister of Transport has been with us in the view of OPS as a financing mechanism. It makes no sense for the state – with the financial situation in which we are – to take up loans and incur interest costs on road construction. We have been critical of the fact that OPS involves pushing the bill, with interest, over to those who come after us. The fact that the Progress Party has wanted an investment company for the road has been known for several years, but then the point has been to be able to get money out of the oil fund outside the rule of action to finance road development. We have been against it because we believe that the road must be given priority within the rule of action in line with other purposes, but it has at least been an approach in which we avoid taking on extra costs in terms of interest expenses. Now, all of a sudden, it's a big point that such a company should have access to government-guaranteed loans, and with the Progress Party's attitude to tolls, I don't expect these loans to be served by the drivers. We have tried to get answers – among others. through written questions — whether it means that instalments and interest on these loans are to be paid through annual appropriations in the State budget. We have not received an answer to that, but I hope the Minister for Transport can give us a clarification on that today. If this is the case, then a solution that is in line with OPS has been designed. To quote Chief Inspector Harald Magnus Andreassen: ‘This is a proposal that should be put in the drawer. It's making new paths appear free now, but they're just sending the bill forward many years into the future. Most have learned that the house is not paid down once the joiner has got his own." However, this fund should amount to 100 billion. kr in a few years, but the return of an estimated 3 to 4 billion. kr will only be small money compared to what is already spent annually on the road sector. In addition, it opens up to designate car charges to the company. However, whether this money is used to serve borrowing rates via the state budget or via the state company is strictly irrelevant – the money is not going to be any different by accounting them in another way. So I see in the evening post today that the Minister of Transport also sees that this company has to make a lot of money in sickroes and in gas stations. It remains to be seen, but we still have no explanation as to whether the taxpayers' money should be able to use debt interest when the state builds a road. I respect that all the details about the establishment of a road carrier are not clear after a few weeks in government, but the question of how to operate these loans is not a detail – that is a crucial question – and I assume that the Minister of Transport has a conscious thought behind this which he is willing to share with the Stortinge today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1293	I'll talk about the sea. It could have been tempting to talk about the snow that has caused chaos on the roads in the north. In the north, it was now claimed that some roads should not be under the county or state, but under the health north or under the AMK centre! Still, people don't look at it darkly, and they say like him Arthur Arntzen: "With a couple of good summers your snow disappears." The seaway, on the other hand, is bridge-free and almost maintenance-free. For many coastal communities, the maritime route is as important as the asphalt road. For the fishing industry, fishing ports are the very lifeblood. They allow feeding in places like Gryllefjord, Ballstad and Båtsfjord, and thus small communities can contribute great values out to the world's dining table. And precisely because the marine industry is a future industry, the red-green government has granted a record high sum to fishing ports. It is infrastructure that determines whether boats can deliver and whether companies can live. It is very gratifying that the government will follow up the short sea shipping strategy and that they will develop a national port strategy. That work shall be commended to the Council of State for having set in motion. But it is incomprehensible that the Minister of Transport is using the national port strategy to justify cutting 46 million. in appropriations for fishing ports. This may be a small sum in the broad context, but the consequence is that important port projects ready for launch are postponed – at Napp in Flakstad municipality and at Sommarøy in Tromsø municipality. There are needs documented, they are precarious, and no port strategy will change that. To give an example: in Summer Island, Norway Pelagics stands a modern factory, and it needs a modern port quickly. The boats to deliver often do not come forward today, thus losing much of their livelihood. Here the money was put off in the budget, and the Coast Guard was ready for plant start, but the cut came anyway. Then Managing Director Gunnar Domstein said to Nordlys: ‘Havn means a commodity or not for the enterprise. We had really looked forward to the port getting deeper, and now we need to assess the future». So a postponement could mean a difference between continued operation or relocation. When the Council of State elaborated on its reasons in Stortinget, he said the following: ‘In order not to throw money out of the window, we choose to wait for the two projects that one made up, precisely because we can come back and make sure that they are built in line with the strategy that one will end up with.’ This is, with all due respect, a justification that gets – if any – understood, and it feels provocative. The repairs people are waiting for, are not throwing money out of the window, and the cut did not come because the projects were poorly planned. The needs are there now. They won't be gone. They are not modified by a national port strategy. The port is going to be the same reason after the government has thought about it. The boats will not have decreased in size even if the paper pile in the department has grown. The only difference is that there might not be an enterprise to create a port for. The suspension may also be unfortunate if the cut has a domino effect on other coastal ports. When the investment in these projects is postponed, other important coastal port extensions are awaited. Then they move even further back in the queue. I hope this rest cut does not get the consequences it can have. I also think the Council of State has the ability to listen. I hope he understands what might, and encourages him to use his executive power to pave the way for these projects as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1318	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1321	The Ringerix Railway is a national project that has been discussed in this room for several periods. It is even true that the Stortinge has solemnly decided that the Ringerix Railway should be built, but it is still not built. When we discussed the National Transport Plan, we had an intense discussion about the comments related to it, and the note that was then adopted was a very clear message that now the Ringerix Railway planning should be started. Nevertheless, we are constantly aware that that is not the case, that this priority cannot be achieved and that the funds are lacking. In the setting that we are dealing with here today, there is a very clear comment in this regard. I noticed that the railway company's director is in the lodge, and that is very good. I ask her to understand that when Stortinget decides what they decide in connection with this remark, and says what they say, unanimously, we must be able to count on this to be followed up. I have also noticed that the Council of State Solvik-Olsen answered this question in a reply earlier in the debate. I am very pleased with what the Council of State said at that point, because he made a very clear commitment to starting this. I appeal very strongly that this happens, because we can no longer operate and decide in this room that the Ringerix track will be implemented, without actually doing so. And we can't imagine a future where we don't have an efficient rail link between east and west. It is about the developments between our two key parts of the country, and it is about the developments between the two main economic centres in Norway. That's why I'm saying this with so much emphasis, because I think it's important to say. I will, as my second point, briefly come into it which I notice that the Council of State of Solvik-Olsen keeps saying when he is challenged on the Advance Party's original transport policy. He says quite consistently that had it been up to the Progress Party, they had led a different policy. It's not allowed by a state council all the time to say that. Either the Council of State must be in favour of the government's policy, as he puts it, or he must say that he is pursuing this policy with the pen. For what has happened is that the policies of the Progress Party, as they have proposed to finance it in the field of transport, have collapsed completely. They don't stand for it anymore. They just say they'll do it if they get the chance to control more over the right. The right has understood this a long time ago, is perfectly reasonable and follows this path. Solvik-Olsen must stick to the government's policy, or he must say that he wants a different political direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1342	National transport plan 2014-2023 proposed to strengthen the framework grant to county municipalities in order to allow county municipalities to renew and upgrade the county road network. In the proposals for the 2014 state budget, it is set at 500 million. kr for the purpose. Nordland County gets over 70 million. of the funds. It is positive that today's government is gripping and strengthening the framework grant and thus contributing to increased investment on the county road network. Nordland is a state where there are many races each year. This leads to considerable uncertainty among the population and major challenges for the transport of people and goods. Last winter there were several races in the municipality of Meløy. The roads were blocked because of race and risk of race. This had a major impact on commuters and businesses, and there was fear and uncertainty among the population. Many inside and outside the municipality were affected by this. Meløy Municipality is in a major conversion process after 20 pst. jobs were lost as a result of the closure of the REC. Efforts are being made to create new jobs and start-ups. Glomfjord Industripark has a good framework for new start-ups, and then it must not be a razed road section that contributes to the absence of entrepreneurs and investors. When race and road network are closed for days and weeks, this uncertainty could hinder job and industrial entry. Predictability and competitiveness are sought. A safe, year-round road is of great importance for bets out in a heavily pressed municipality that sorely needs new jobs. Parents must be sure that they can send the children to school. One of several great races that went last winter, only a short time passed before the school bus would pass. The mail car was standing between two large breeds. Enterprises whose turnover exceeds 2 billion kr annually signals that there is considerable uncertainty about maintaining a stable process due to problems of getting raw materials into the road during weeks of being blocked by race. In order to be competitive, it is necessary to ensure that enterprises get the goods out to the market. It is very important that the county should give priority to racial protection with the increased funds allocated to upgrading county roads. Safety and predictability are a necessary factor, in which case the roads must be secured so that settlement is maintained and re-establishment can become a reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1361	The Chairman of the Committee, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, said that the red-green ‘has been waiting for eight years’. This cannot be characterised as a serious opinion. If we look at the Railway Agency's budget for 2014, the red-green side added up to an entry of 15 578 000 000 kroner. There's an increase of NOK 4 206 000 from last year. Hence, there was an investment increase in the line of NOK 3299000000 or NOK 63 pst. It is then strong to hear such characteristics from the committee chairman when the facts are what I now referred to. It is gratifying that the budget line at the process of enlargement has increased by 500 million. kr. It is a majority consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party, the Labour Party and the Center Party. That's 400 million. kr for operation and 100 million. kr for planning purposes. The intercity triangle and the Ringerix orbit are part of this. The Ringerix Railway is an investment for the future, to create a basis for decentralisation outside Oslo pot. This has been an issue for 20 years, which has contributed to the failure of confidence of policymakers. Now we've got a unanimous remark. But it was very special to read Bergen’s Official Journal today, where the title was ‘Confusion about train plans’. The information manager of the Railway Agency, Thor Erik Skarpen, creates confusion when he tries to explain the differences in the terms «investigation» and «planning». The information manager obviously does not know the status of the matter and the necessary planning phases in Bærum in Akershus and in Hole and Ringerike in Buskerud. Here we are faced with a planning from the superior to the detailed engineering. It is a demanding municipal sub-planning process through a very conflicty area, where one also has to take care of the interests of local people, where one has to take care of local democracy, where one has to clear line choices, where one has to get a spatial management plan through large national values with natural and cultural landscape values. Here it is necessary that one go from the overall planning to the detailed planning, and then to start discussing the investigation versus planning, is outside the blink, to use the shooter language. It is necessary to see the railway and the new E16 in the context of this planning. There is so much nature intervention that you have to try to reduce them by planning a run-in, so that you can get a better solution. I'm going to appeal to the Council of State to go into this in particular and set up an environmental tunnel as one of the remedial measures to secure the enormous natural and cultural landscape values, with some of the finest cultivated land we have, in an area that has the house many of Norway's former kings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1388	Let me just sign out the Ringerix track first: yes, this government is going to work more offensively than the previous government obviously did, because we're going to do what the Storting now asks us to do. It is a little strange when representatives who have been in the government college for eight years start to demand that the new government deliver what they themselves have not been able to do in eight years. But we're going to follow the decision of the Biggest. In terms of tolls, many of which are very concerned about, I wish that the involvement that many now have for less tolls was also shown by decisions in the Stortinget. To all the workers' party representatives who are now sending questions to the government in view of the fact that their own local toll project would be removed: it is entirely possible to make proposals in the Stortinget that that will happen, I will not deny anyone. As far as the toll debate is concerned, it is a bit strange that there is criticism here of the fact that the Right wants to have the OPS project, and that the Red-Green parties say that borrowing money is to push commitments on future generations, while knowing that the Red-Green Government carried out dozens of toll projects under public control. It's also borrowing money that future generations have to pay back. So there is in principle no difference between whether it is public or private that implements a road project as long as it is financed by a loan. The difference may be the level of interest and there is a relevant debate, but the average borrowing rate on the public toll projects is 3.41 pst. So there's borrowed money that the drivers pay back through tolls, and that's pushing costs in front of them. The criticism from red-green representatives here against the government and the Right is completely unreasonable when they themselves have been the greatest exponent to finance new roads. What's new here is that the Storting tells you to base the state guarantee. This means that you can assume that there is at least a lower interest rate on some of those projects. Looking at the Seljord project, which the previous government suggested would be built with tolls, but as they now decide not to be built with tolls anyway – they are turning around – it's the real news here. That project should have cost about 300 million. SEK to be built and another 200 million. to finance. So the red-greens often say there's no difference, the bill has to be paid whether it's the drivers or the taxpayers who do. Well, there's a significant difference here, because both the drivers and the taxpayers have to pay what it costs to build the road. But by the state now taking the bill, we're dropping all the interest and administrative costs on the bombing. So the drivers and the taxpayers are saving about 200 million. kr in the proposed way of doing so by the government. Money is saved and money is earned, and I think people appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1403	Good and decent transport solutions are crucial for people's everyday lives. It is about children and young people experiencing safe travel to and from school and kindergarten. These are important premises for choosing a place for setting up businesses, for where people live, and not least for choosing good and environmentally friendly solutions. When the action rule was introduced in 2001, it was assumed that the increased space for action provided by oil revenues would be used to strengthen the long-term growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. There should therefore be a clear requirement for increased use of oil money in order to enhance our growth capacity. Investment in transport is just one of those areas that can contribute to increased productivity and growth capacity in both the short and long term. Extended housing and labour market regions through investment in transport corridors, on the road and rail connecting city and districts strengthen value creation. It contributes to the maintenance and development of viable local communities and the exploitation of local competitive competences. Such developments contribute to regional enlargement and create an enlarged housing and labour market. This is the case in the South as well as in the rest of the country. The intercity bet is an example of a support bar in that type of strategy, but then connections must also be made from the outer points of the intercity triangle, e.g. a connection between the Southern Railway and the Westfold Railway. On the road side, a reinforced commitment to the development of the E18 Arendal-Tvedestrand, Rv 9 and E39 Kristiansand-Stavanger will bring enormous pressure to the value creation in this part of the country. Finally, let me mention two areas in which we in the Christian People's Party are particularly concerned. The effort we have seen to achieve universal design in all transport areas has been very fragmented. The universal design obligation is enshrined in the Discrimination and Availability Act § 9. An action plan was drawn up that Norway should be universally designed in 2025. The challenges facing the new government are now to make a more comprehensive effort in this area to achieve these objectives. It requires appropriations. Finally, tests on alcohol in public transport have been carried out with promising results. In our opinion, the directive on alcohol should in the long term be introduced in all public transport modes. We are aware that driving in a drug-affected state is one of the greatest risk factors in road traffic in this country. Attitude-building and control is not alone sufficient. These are important things that we need to work on in the future to take action in this area, including in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1416	I would like to thank the collusion committee for a clear comment on Bergensbanen in its position. The Committee shall determine: ‘The Committee will also stress that further planning of the Ringerix Railway must be carried out as part of, and in the light of, the increased allocation of InterCity routes. The Committee assumes that the Ringerix Railway is planned to allow decisions on the start of the project to be taken by rolling the next national transport plan for site start-up in 2018.’ I was one of those who were concerned about the budgetary agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government Party when one in the agreement concluded that 100 million. Planning would involve full intercity and the assessment of rapid access to Gothenburg. The Bergensbanen and the Ringerik Tunnel were forgotten in the budget agreement. We got oral promises in the media that intercity planning also meant planning the Ringerik tunnel. It was the committee that had to fix this, and as I read the committee setting, the Railway Agency – or those who are going to send the assignment to the Railway Agency – cannot misunderstand. The size of its clear grip is that planning needs to be carried out so that start-ups can take place in 2018. Today, the Bergen Official Journal has announced that the multi-annual comment on the Ringerix Railway in connection with the National Transport Plan is perceived by the information manager of the Railway Agency as just an order for an arrangement, not a settlement and planning, and even if the size of the NTP note indicates that the project should be planned so that it can be started as early as possible during the last six-year period. This shows that political priorities on the part of the Storing must be ambiguistic — all that may be misunderstood is misunderstood if the will is not present. I also expect that the interpolitical involvement of the Ringeriksbane will not stop there. The Ringerix Railway is a small but important part of Bergensbanen. The tunnel is part of the renewal and modernisation needed to get modern facilities and safe and shorter routes across the mountains between the two largest cities of Norway. Renewal of the Vossaban will provide the basis for expanding the working and commuting region around Bergen and Voss. Today it takes 1 hour and 15 minutes by train between Bergen and Voss. With a new Vosabane, travel time can come down to 39 minutes – it will be Hordaland's intercity, which we give a new everyday life to people most and businesses. The State Road Service and the Railway Agency work jointly with a so-called concept currency arrangement for new rail and road between Arna and Voss. The sketches presented are offensive. The Vossaban must be a central project to get a journey time on Bergensbanen down to about four hours. Hordaland's representatives are very keen on the Ringeriksban. I expect that Ringerix's friends in this room will fight as hard for the improvements that are needed on the Bergensbanen west of the watershed. Martin Kolberg said that the Ringerix Railway is a national project. I say the whole Bergensbanen is a national project.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1434	I would like to congratulate the government, the government party and the cooperative government on an exciting and offensive budget for transport. Here's a lot to build on when to start working on a new and holistic budget for 2015. I would also like to congratulate the Council of State and the Government with a clear signal about new ways of organising and implementing the construction of transport. This contrasts strongly with what the two former red-green governments with central party councils have achieved. I also have clear promises to overfill the NTP during this ageing period, and this budget is a good start to it. Norway is a long-distance country, and a large part of the competitive industry is located outside the big cities. It is important to reduce distance constraints and transport costs through a large-scale investment in transport and increased investment in other infrastructure. It is very nice to see that the government has already delivered in this area. The continuation of the interest-rate compensation scheme and the extension of the loopholes to county roads have led to optimism for many who are waiting for an important transport project. This is not least the case in these days, when state policymakers are going to do their priorities in the regional road maps. The government is bred for its efforts on state roads, and the same applies to increasing the licenses to state roads and planning tools for new transportation projects. In my home country, many important transport projects have good wording in the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023. I can mention the Free E39, the Pre-package, the Coastal Road, the Vika Mountain Road, the Stryne Mountain, the City of the Ship Tunnel and the extension of the seal to Florø. To get on with many of these projects, it is crucial to get ahead of the plan, and not least to complete the many KVUs that are at work. It's crucial to complete the trasé selection, so that one can move on with concrete planning. I am aware that there has not been any time in this budgetary management to go into single projects. However, I would like to point out two important projects in Sogn and Fjordane. There is one thing about the progress of the E39 project through the county. It is important that this plan work does not stop. The other is the depth of the Florø seal. There's a decision that this is being done in a way that the yard in Florø is lit up with. As I started this article with, it's very positive in the budget we're going to adopt today, and it's going to be exciting to continue working on a lot of important transport projects in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1457	State councils produce toll projects as loan form and OPS as borrowing form as if it were one and the same. It's not. I advise the Council of State to talk to the Ministry of Finance about it. The representative of Hofstad Helleland also told us in his statement about the excellence of OPS funding. She told me how successful the three OPS projects we have in Norway have been. What she didn't talk about was the scandals around E39 in the South, where you hadn't built after the book when it was about the environment, where the costs broke, and you had a long dispute in court about who was going to pay the bill. In addition, Hofstad Helleland claims that it was built so much faster than so-called ordinary road project – errors! E6 along Mjösa is being built equally quickly. Of course, it's about predictable, comprehensive planning and funding, but you don't need OPS to do it. The next claim is that it gets so much cheaper. It's also wrong. OPS means that private finance companies and contractors take over the entire project, and I expect that the Right does not believe that private investors should not have dividends on their investments. I can refer to Trygve Hegnar, who has pointed out that no one borrows cheaper than the state, because no one is safer paying. Private investors also have to add a higher risk-measurement to their projects, but on the other hand they are on gold-plated contracts where the community is obliged to pay rent over a period of 25 to 60 years. OPS allows investors the exclusive right to operate and maintain for the entire period, and it is strange that the Right is not in competition in this area. It is not surprising that investors and their lobbyists are now happy that the Right has come to power. By awarding OPS projects, they will be secured for many decades to come, from the world's safest customer, without rounds of tenders or fierce competition and with a gold-plated suction tube in the Community box. Health AS, which has two of three OPS projects in Norway, has already taken out 120 million. NOK dividends paid by Norwegian taxpayers. Sundt AS – according to the Class struggle – makes a big contribution to the Right Party box. I like to pay taxes to finance effective joint solutions that make society better for most people, but I don't want to pay taxes to increase the profits of Health AS or foreign financial funds. OPS came to Europe with Margaret Thatcher. The United Kingdom has for over 20 years tried the system that is now being launched as a new right-wing idea. Many projects have ended in scandals, and billions of bills have been sent to taxpayers. They've ended up with what many other countries have done the same thing, and the experience with this is by no means good. The Swedes say "twice no." Former Governor Svein Gedrem said in 2010, as part of the explanation of the financial crisis: «Many countries allowed their expenditures to run in line with higher tax revenue. As banks, many countries also left out of the balance, inter alia through what is called public private cooperation in this country.» In the past, the party of progress was strongly opposed to this. State Secretary Bård Hoksrud has called it 'heel in hat'. But now the Progress Party is all of a sudden for this as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1480	There has been full confusion as to how the State will act in the future with regard to toll financing of road projects. This creates a difficult and unfortunate situation. It is absolutely necessary to clarify soon what the government's roadblock policy will be like in the next four years. At least the Minister of Transport must be able to tell when such clarification will come. Municipalities, county councils and other actors in the front line or in the running of important road projects cannot go on for long. Large road investments, including borrowings and guarantees, depend entirely on predictability. The government must show us the cards: all that it has promised – and especially the Advance Party – and what it will mean for projects in the whole country, more than just pulling some individual projects out of the hat. Nobody wants a penny more than needed in a toll charge. I fear that several municipalities will be able to draw their support for bomb projects in the hope that their road project will drop a bomb, or get significantly lower charges for the drivers. Important projects may thus be exposed — in the worst cases lost. A collective Uppland bench here at Stortinget met on Tuesday this week Vegforum E16, which is in the middle of this problem, after the municipality of Nord-Aurdal has said no toll financing. They want lower toll charges – i.e. Vegforum E16 – but the main message was to ask for help, so that the progress of the E16 expansion does not stop. In particular, the planning of the Bakn–Bjørgo route, where the need for a new and better route is great. I have no faith that the blue-blue government will be able to make Norway free of bombs, but there are many questions that require answers. Among other things, we must: know and when and how much the country’s contribution to planned and future road projects will increase. Furthermore, we need to know whether it applies to all or just some projects, whether an increase in the state's share will have retroactive effect, and not least what kind of projects the state will finance in their entirety, that is, make bomb-free. A lot of road development is ongoing and planned in Norway. We cannot live long with the uncertainty that has arisen here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1493	Today, 5 December 2013, is a special day for Norwegian transport. The position of the Committee on Transport and Communications contains a number of important measures to increase transport capacity in both road, rail, aviation and maritime transport. Not least, it is interesting to see the whole transport sector as a whole, after the government has moved port development and shipping into the Ministry of Transport. The vast majority of European countries have come much further than us in terms of road and rail development. In Norwegian policy, many participants have used this as a sleeping cushion; that the distances in this country are so long, and that there is so much mountain here. Well, that's right. But bringing forward robust transport channels in densely populated central European regions, where cities are not just close, but growing together in clusters, it's not just that, either. The advantage we have is that we have a good place, that we have a good economy, and that basebergs are solid to build on. The fact that we have come so short in the development of modern infrastructure is therefore not natural. That's the result of a misguided development. Now that we've got a new government, expectations are high, but after seven weeks, the new government has already started well. In this debate, it has been clear that the Workers' Party's speakers have made it clear on several occasions that the Workers' Party too now wants as rapid an expansion of road and rail as possible. It does it well for broad cooperation. The two governmental parties and the two supporting parties have different priorities. That's why they're different parties. In order to arrive at agreed solutions, they must be provided and taken together. In this debate, several of these four parties have been asked about individual points in their party programmes. Tolls are just one example. But the whole 83 pst. by the voters voted in favour of lots for tolls. In government cooperation, not everyone can get it exactly the way they want it. That's the way it was with the red-green ones, too. The Workers' Party lost its government cooperation in oil drilling in the North, SV had to praise Norway's military cooperation with the United States, and the Centre Party had to cheer for the EEA Agreement. That's the way it is – agreements have to be made. Therefore, the Progress Party does not implement its entire batch programme in the current government cooperation, but, in the case of transport, there is still good reason to look forward to what is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1508	I want to say that I think it has been a good transport debate so far. And as I said at the beginning of my article today, this is a happy day. It is a real pleasure to deal with and adopt this budget, for there is every reason to be proud of the promise that is now being made to the transport sector. Several have said here from the pulpit that we agree on a lot, and that is quite correct, but there is also something we disagree about, and it is primarily about the direction. While the Workers' Party will do more of what is not working, the Right Party and the Advance Party are now fully engaged in putting in place new structures that will in a short time produce results, both on the road and on the track. We are slowing down the maintenance of both road and track, and the development of road and track is more on track, or ahead of form, in relation to the dimensions set in the NTP. Given that seven out of ten road projects did not land in the last four-year period, when the red-greens were heading, it does say that it is about waiting and showing the power of action. I get a little confused, because on the day that the government made the extra proposition, it went, among other things. The representative Gahr sprang out and said this was an overly offensive and expansive budget, and he was worried. Today, the Labour Party is standing and attacking the Right and Advance Party from the Chair because we do not follow our promises because we do not spend more money. So it's a little difficult to get a grip on what the Workers' Party's representatives really think about this government's transport policy. I still want to claim that much of the transport policy has been put on hold, and I understand that some people are provoked by that statement. It shows first and foremost the understanding of what it means to show action. For me, it’s not just about dollars and cents – in Norway, it’s easy to give money. For me, it's about the ability to think new, to act new and to actually initiate reforms and changes in a sector that is calling for something to happen. That's why I'm very happy that we've got a powerful government with a powerful Minister of Transport who in eight weeks seems to have thought more new than what the red-greens did in eight years, and that's why I'm happy to see the results in the future – with more road and more track in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1519	We have an expression on the Toten -- it's called being more naughty than flat-lusa. The representative Hagebakken is a bit rude today. In the newspaper Valdres online today, and partly in his post a little while ago, the representative Hagebakken demands clarification about roadblocks. He says that there has been uncertainty. Yes, there may have been uncertainty, but I do not think that the uncertainty that the drivers are looking at is very negative, because the uncertainty is about how much less one might have to pay in the bomb charge, and whether one should pay the toll, and the uncertainty that I think the drivers can live with. But I understand that the representative Hagebakken does not. The representative, Hagebakken, also demands clarification on roadblocks. So he's asking for clarification about something that the representative and his government are responsible for, because there's something that's stuck in stone, is that the Workers' Party and the Hage Hill aren't just trailers of bombs, they're drivers. I think it's a little rough to go out and tell you that someone really doesn't want a bomb. There is no one really wanting, he says, and then voting for one project after another. And the excuse is local pressure and local initiative. Well, now Hagebakken has the opportunity, because in North Aurdal the local government has said no to bombs. Then the representative Hagebaken has no local initiative or pressure to deal with it. I'm incredibly excited if Hagebakken now suggests bomb-free E16, and that it should be state funding – or is it, as I and many others think, when it comes from that edge, a lot of screaming and little wool? At least the garden tray cannot now be blamed on local pressures and initiatives for bombing. Now there's no excuses, there's only facts that apply, and that's that the Hage Hill is becoming a champion for more toll stations that can empty their pockets to people most. The garden tray is terrified that this government will show that roads can actually be financed with lower bomb charges, and even without a bomb.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1526	The president will be happy if the speech goes through the president, I think it creates a better dynamic in the hall. I might also think that local expressions can be local expressions, considering pasting some of our co-representatives to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1530	The railway has been almost forgotten for 40 years by various governments. If you ignore the expansion of the Gardermoban, there has not been any investment in the Norwegian railway that is worth counting on in addition to the electrification in the 1960s. Today you can see a lot on the road: a railway that is very worn out, which cannot be maintained in place, but which needs to be invested in place. It's the story of how Norwegian railway has long gone on the road. The course is about to be snubbed. When it turned around, we're not going to spend too much time in this room discussing, but it's about to turn around. Large amounts are now made available to the Railway Agency. Political decisions are now to be transformed into real policy. Therefore, it is so important that the railway works have an executive role in the major tasks ahead of us. The Court of Auditors pointed out in its report, Document 3:13 [[2011-2012]] Until 2008, rail freight increased. There had to be a red-green government to break the rail freight. Compared with today's freight transport in 2008, there are 1 million fewer tonnes transported on rail today. In the national transport plan two periods ago, the government wrote that it was important to facilitate the approximation of rail freight transport. So has not happened, and it has also been removed from the current transport plan. This is why it is so important to bet on both road and rail – it has to be seen in the context – and the government is betting on road and rail in a formidable transport lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1539	I have been sitting and chatting a little with the Minister of Justice and have become sure that the emergency network is well under way. So I'm going to refrain from asking questions about it. I noticed that the Minister of Transport said something about something was missing from Stortinget when it was both the establishment and the division of a railway company. I just want to make it clear that – so that the Minister of Transport gets it along – there is no doubt on the part of the Left about what we want. We certainly want to do that. If the Minister of Transport chats with representatives of the Christian People's Party, I think it will be made clear that the Christian People's Party too wants to do so. Then the ball lies with the Minister of Transport, that is, to convince his own ranks, so that we get ahead of this. I initially took the floor to express my delight in the fact that an overall committee has made the following proposal: ‘The government is asked to establish a reward scheme for walking and cycling routes and to return to Stortinget on a case-by-case basis in the context of the revised national budget.’ We have enjoyed working closely with the Christian People's Party to get this in place. In its alternative government budget, the Left has ‘increased the transfer to cycling and walking’ and has also wanted to stimulate cycling through a separate scheme. We have specifically proposed a separate reward scheme for bicycles and have proposed in our alternative budget to allocate 100 million. kr for this purpose. We're waiting for what the government will do when we get as far as the revised national budget. You put 1 million in place. to the Cyclistene National Association in relation to the Government's proposals. It's a lift. Even 1 million. kr initially is not the large amount, however, it is an important symbolic sum of an association that does an important job in this area. I also use the opportunity to say something about the city track. The left believes that the urban railway operation in the big cities should have a state funding of 50 pst. It is essential that the State contributes financially to the lifting of large-scale projects in large cities, enabling cities to meet traffic challenges in an environmentally friendly way. I am here pointing out that the Bondevik II government took an active role in setting up an urban runway operation in Bergen. Today I have noticed that the Council of State has said something about this, and I expect that the state funding of 50 p.m. will stand when the locals make a decision. Then there are some other good projects, such as the city track on the North Jären, the Kolsåssbahnen, the Fornebubanen and the path to Ahus. I would like to ask the government to engage in dialogue with the cities concerned in order to set up funding for urban railways in the coming years. We in the left have been clear that in the case of Stavanger, we also want to put in place an urban orbit solution there. Finally, something completely different. While I have the Council of State in the Chamber, I'd like to ask him to start making sure that the Railway Agency is in dialogue with Router about a new bus terminal across the tracks at Oslo S.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1559	I appreciate representatives who will do something in the future – and not just look at how things could have been in the past. At the same time, I am dealing with settings and decisions that Stortinget makes. To be whispered something in the big food restaurant, etc. is not enough for me to say that the Storting is behind the wish, but I hear what the Left wants. It's interesting to see how many workers there are who deliberately choose to misunderstand some of the things that the government is doing. I record that the representative Hagebakken says that reducing the toll ratio creates uncertainty and keeps projects around the districts back. At least it's not the government's fault. We have granted more than what was on the basis of the red-green government. That means that more projects than the red-green ones did will be planned. There is nothing in this government's decision or proposals that delay anything. I would also like to remind you that with regard to the six toll projects proposed by the government, it is not right that these are projects that would in any case have been paid down in a few months. Some would have been paid off only after 2020. There are quite many years ahead of us. I understand that one will not give credit for the removal of toll projects – when the red-greens themselves have been with and adopted them. But when one says that these projects are so small that they won't make any sense, I really think it says the most about the red-green government, which even in small, cheap road projects was so petty that one had to finance them in order for them to get through at all. So that criticism really most reflects the red-green government. Then it was mentioned about OPS projects that there was something quite different than government toll projects. No, in fact, it's very much the same thing. Both parts are about borrowing money to build a road, which is then refunded. The main difference is that many of the OPS projects are paid by the State, while government toll projects are paid by the drivers. But this is whatever money has to be borrowed, and then it has to be paid back. It was used from this pulpit to argue that private contractors are making money on OPS projects. But they certainly do too on the public toll projects, because there are private companies that also build these roads. I have not yet heard – neither from Skanska nor from Veigeck – that they are building the public toll projects free of charge. The owners of Skanska take even dividends when they can. There is no difference between having a OPS project or a public toll project, except for the long-term obligation that OPS often has, that one also covers maintenance. Even those who have expanded E6 northwards – which was used as an example that one can also get benefits without OPS, one can – have made dividends because they earn money on the development of E6. I simply don't understand the arguments of the Workers' Party here. They're later like there's a distinction -- which actually doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1572	First of all, I would like to remind the assembly that when it comes to the toll projects where the council refers to the red-green, the red-green, the red-green – it's great to be called often – all the parties, at least at the time I've been on the Stortinget, have voiced for these toll projects, voiced for partial toll financing, except for the Progress Party. Also those with whom Solvik-Olsen is now in government, and those with whom the government supports have participated in all of these projects. I must say that I am pleased that the Council of State has ensured that the Railway Agency will now plan the Ringeriksbahn, in line with the will of Storting. As the Council of State referred earlier in the debate to the Official Journal of today's Bergen, and that the Railway Agency there was referred to the signing of the NTP only meant distribution and not planning, I can also dare to refer to today's BT and the quote they have from me. It sounds like this: ‘If the Railway Agency is unable to read this for itself, then political management in the Ministry of Transport must go down there and read it out loud to them.’ If the Council of State doesn't have so much more to do tomorrow, it's a cry for help. Then I'll go to another point in the committee's discussion. As others have been in, we are gathering about almost everything. Some of what we're very gathered about, I also thought it was important to get there. We have a point about AutoPASS, electronic payment. It actually goes into this with modern technology, and we're going to use it. The Committee is very busy ensuring good progress in the development of AutoPASS. There is in itself a range of possibilities for interoperability solutions and, not least, effective collection and easier everyday life for the car list. When we have a toll project, we don't want much to go to administration and collection costs. That's why the committee is very busy with this. At the same time, we separated a little bit. The red-green parties and the Christian People's Party would like to have introduced a mandatory piece in all driving suits. It's just when one gets the collection costs down. I know there's someone who's a little afraid of privacy, but I think technological developments are going so fast that in the long run it won't be a problem. I hope we can introduce this in a little bit – not just on heavy running gear, but on all running gear.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1588	It has been interesting to hear all the speeches in the debate today. It is a pleasure to see that so many are now busy with tolls – this promises good for the future. We talk a lot about the two-part division in the Norwegian economy, and I also think we can safely see that there is a two-part division in Norwegian policy. On the one hand, we have our voters who give us feedback that they are well pleased with the achievements of the Advance Party, but on the other hand, the red-green community, which is trying to febrilely convince the same voters that they must not be satisfied. I don't think our voters are convinced, but the red-greens are at least going to have diced six for the experiment. After my two months in this house, I've noticed that there's something people are very busy about, so it's transportation. They're not just concerned with tolls, but the whole thing, and there's especially our voters' satisfaction. Our voters see that the things we have lost in government are things that would in any case be adopted, while the things we have won are things that only the Advance Party has fought for. Our voters see that they get through after penetration. We're going to get a road development company, an infrastructure fund of 100 billion. kr, more money to the county roads, a separate highway plan, we're removing some bomb companies, and we're going to gather all the bomb companies together, so it'll be cheaper to manage, so that more money will go on the road. These are things we would never get through for, if we had not accepted at the same time to vote for things that the rest of the Storing is for, and that would in any case be adopted. It's a good barter if you ask me, and it seems that our voters agree. On the radio this morning I heard that the Workers' Party's transport policy spokesperson said that it was not possible to build a road without a bomb. Furthermore, it was said that the Workers' Party was now very pleased that the Minister of Transport had found out some of the worst toll projects, those that had unreasonable financing costs. The working party had nothing against admitting that some toll projects were bad. If the Workers' Party believes that it is not possible to build a road without a bomb, why do they still vote for a project on E134 to be built without a bomb? Is it the fear of standing alone and voting for a bomb project that is unpopular and bad, or have they realized that roads can be built even without a bomb? With regard to what was said that there were enough bomb projects that were very bad, which they were pleased that the Minister of Transport was now lighting up, the Progress Party here has to take self-criticism because we have not been informed of the bulk of the population at the time how bad these projects were. We use the same reasoning now when we propose to remove them, as we did when we first voted against them. It is obvious that in the Progress Party we have not been good enough to explain what was actually in the case papers, since we only get a pass on this when we now propose to remove them, when we had a rematch in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1603	There has been an interesting debate to listen to. Actually, you should think that nothing has happened for eight years. After traveling for four years with the transport committee around the whole country, I know it's not right. There's a lot of activity in all areas, and I'm very happy about that. I want to go into another area. I quote from the political platform to the Right Party government: ‘The government will pursue an offensive north-eastern policy The policy will build up under economic development, safeguard Norwegian interests, strengthen cooperation with Russia and the polar states, as well as the basis for activity and settlement in the north.’ [[...]] Then it's amazing to me, at least, that the first government is doing, is cutting the allocations to the fishing ports of Napp and Sommarøy. It is a force for action, yes, but it is a force for action that I can assure the people that they are not well received in those coastal communities. Other budget chapters include: The allocation to the Hurtigrutemuseet in Hadsel in Northern Ireland, and I can assure you that at least that power was not well received by the rapporteur of the Progress Party in Hadsel. I find it strange that the new position, the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, is not included in the comments they themselves have made earlier, among others. in the national transport plan, notes such as: has gone on the Nordlandsbanen, Ofotbanen, Dunderlandsdalen, which is important in view of Rana Gruber, that you get speed in its development, to mention someone. There has been a broad consensus that trade is important for building up under economic development, not least from a north-eastern perspective. I hope that agreement is still there, even though it is not made visible this time through the budgetary position. Maritime transport also has a high potential in the north. New sea routes can be a means of freight hubs that can improve the efficiency of freight handling. We have measures that are close to the shipping strategy, which can stimulate more goods from road to sea and track – we have a track that is not very well known in the north, but it is something, however. Finally, work has been started on the development of a Barent transport plan on the initiative of Norway. The centre party believes it is very wise to see transportation also east-west and not just north-south. I hope that the new management of the Ministry of Transport and the government will work towards the work already in progress. I think it can be very good ideas that can come up, which can be important not only for North Norway, but simply for the polar states and for the cooperation we have with Russia to achieve good transport corridors also east-west. There could be a good basis for rolling out the national transport plan, which we are going to work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1623	Long-term planning and construction processes have been a review theme in this debate. Many are the communities and regions that have been waiting and waiting for projects that are in need to be implemented. My own home country, Buskerud, is no exception in that way. This was also the background to the fact that the previous government started a major effort to look at how one could shorten these processes, which I expect the sitting government intends to follow up. As a Bush representative, I am very pleased to see that the promises of the previous government for Rv. 23 Dagslett – Linnes is taken care of. No changes have been made to the State budget proposal of the Stoltenberg II Government for 2014, which reads as follows: ‘It has been provisionally assessed as applicable with the toll proposal and, where appropriate, with the toll proposal. start-up or preparatory work on tolls for the following projects in 2014: RV 23 Dagslett – Linnes i Buskerud.» For someone who's not local, maybe doesn't mean Rv. 23 Daylight – Linnes so much. For those who live along the road, that means everything. For those engaged in business in this region, that means enormous. Dagslett – Linnes is the continuation of the Oslofjord link that never came. When the Oslofjord tunnel was opened, the new link under the fjord ended up in a two-field road, across a residential area in the smoke and further through parts of Lier. The road is also not connected to the E18, so Drammen has also got his part of a traffic that really has nothing to do on the internal road network. It's still going to go a few years before all the necessary projects on RV. Twenty-three is in place. In the meantime, we may also have increased capacity above or below Oslofjorden to deal with. It is therefore important that the pace is maintained. The 23rd project. The actual breakthrough came with Navarsete as a Transport Council. With the efforts of time at NTP, there were also opportunities for Rv. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox As part of the strong increase in appropriations for the red-green government, Navarsete promised to increase its share of the government budget to a third for this project, and the remainder will be financed by tolls. I have noticed that representatives of the majority in the debate here today have said that it would be natural to come back to adaptations in the NTP, and especially when it comes to funding issues. I hope not the point of the Sunvolden Declaration whether tolls will interfere with Rv. The 23rd process. I also hope that the common note from all the parties in the NTP before the summer is on the move, namely to change the status of this road and turn it from the highway to the extension of the E134, because then we in Buskerud will be able to feel even more confident that the pace is kept up as we are told.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1639	I am aware that «land-road robbery» is hardly a parliamentary expression. Nevertheless, it is necessary to take up this expression from this pulpit, as this rhetoric was frequently used by the Progress Party in opposition. The characteristics were used for tolls. Not only has the expression been used countless times against tolls, it peaked when current Secretary of State Hoksrud spoke to Nettavisen on 24 August 2011 as follows: «Tolls are unsocial and Kleppa is the modern highway robber. This is State extortion.’ It must be allowed to ask the Progress Party if one today believes the same thing. Today's government parties had relatively high rhetorical cigarism in this political field when they were in opposition. Then there is the case in my home country, East-Agder, that in particular the start and completion of the new E18 Tvedestrand–Arendal has been frequently debated. The current NTP facilitates a relatively rapid start-up, but then it will be necessary to advance or borrow the toll share of the project, which is worth a billion dollars, as only a small part of the government share of something over 3 billion. kr is within the first part of the NTP period. I record that such a variant is also discussed in the County Council of East Agder, and it seems to be a solid political majority for it. The question then arises as to whether the Minister for Transport will follow this up and the opportunities offered by toll cuttings in order to get a quick start on this important road section.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1651	The representative de Ruiter is right in saying that the concept of "land road robbery" is not a parliamentary expression, but the President lets it pass because it was a quote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1654	The representative Steffensen of the Progress Party is concerned that there are so many people who are concerned with tolls. Most of us may have always been concerned with tolls, because when we've taken the noise in terms of tolls as a matter, it's not because we think tolls are so good, but because tolls are equal roads. Had we not had tolls, we would have had much less way. There is no one today who has shown us something that we have not already known. The projects from which the government proposed to remove the tolls are projects that are all known to be expensive in terms of collection costs. Everyone knows that there is a bad traffic base, but when these projects came in here, they wanted them locally, and they knew that this was something one had to do – otherwise there was nothing else. Because by then there had not been any government dollars. Then it is not right when the representative Steffensen claims that I have said that it will not be gone without a bomb. It's clear it can be gone without a bomb, but I'll see how to make the next ten years manage to find 100 billion. kr – from the community box – to build these roads, to do all these other things. There must also be a manifest misunderstanding on the part of the Council of State, on the part of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, not in favour of a toll project here today. The working party and the red-green stand on our respective parties' alternative proposals for a framework. We're on our own frame. We don't go into the 35 million. kr as the government parties and the others go into Telemark, and we do not go into the 284 million. kr that you are going to take at some point in 2015. So we're on our frame, we're not going in and we're deleting some toll project that's in the government's proposal. So maybe it's a curious thing, but there's something I've seen. It is in the position that the members of the Left refer to the negotiated budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left and by voting will vote subsidiaryly for the proposal of the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. Then that means that there's really no majority for anything, because what's the primary position of the left? It may be that I have read this error and did not understand it, but at least I perceive that all the other parties have made their primary positions visible, and then you can subsidize what you want. The president knows this much better than I do, but I thought it was an important point to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1667	The President thanks for that trust and also expects that this will be able to adopt a majority budget during this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1671	We need to bet on safe and good roads in the districts. We need a railway development with the lightning standard, which binds the country together, and we need a clear prioritisation of trains, public transport and bicycles ahead of the widest possible road in the urban areas of the years to come. There are several questions that stand unanswered after today's debate, and I will bring out Marianne Marthinsen's points. She asks the following question: Is one of the points of the government's proposal for a new road company to disperse its expenditure on road investments over more years than today? I expect a clear response from the Council of State to that very thing, and if that is the case, it is a clear and clear circumvention of the rule of action, as it is. That's why I'm asking the question. So to the second question: the Progress Party is unable to implement its own promises of appropriations for transport purposes. They point to the Right as the scapegoat. Then I ask the question to the Progress Party Council: why is it not possible for the Progress Party to grant transport money at the level of the Right Law of the National Transport Plan? And can we expect the government to keep the Right Level in the government budget for the years to come? Or will it be that in the next few years too, money will be given to tax relief for the party sponsors to the Right in front of commercial development? The third question concerns the nature of the projects to be prioritised. In order to avoid prioritizing the vanry, Åse Michaelsen – because of the lack of confidence in decisions due to the priority given to state councils – promised the Progress Party to give priority to projects with the highest socio-economic profitability. That's interesting in itself, but let me get to the priority question – what kind of projects should be prioritised? Prime Minister Erna Solberg made the formulations of the climate agreement that all growth in passenger traffic in metropolitan areas should be included in pedestrian, bicycle and public transport. In other words, no growth in passenger car traffic towards Oslo and the other major cities. State Council Solvik-Olsen is a man who wants to appear with a high degree of professionalism. He will make professional recommendations when making priorities, including: the question of new up to 14-field E18 and where railway and T-railway priorities in the Oslo area are up? Because it is absolutely necessary that the Advance Party Council of Solvik-Olsen intends to stick to the climate agreement, and then professional assessments are essential to listen to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1684	Let's enjoy a very offensive budget for transport. There was a good basis for the red-green, and by increasing oil money usage, majority parties have increased the phase-in towards the NTP framework somewhat faster. At the same time, there is room for funds to clear tolls. In isolation, this will not give a single meter new way, and I would point out that this money could have been used differently. Tolls are deleted, including: for a project which was not a priority in the national transport plan, but could be used, for example: also used these funds for the deployment of E39 in West Agder or for other projects prioritised in the national transport plan. There has been a lot of myth and error, I think, in the debate that has taken place after the government change. It is claimed that if the Progress Party had received 50 p.m., they would have been able to implement the Progress Party's transport policy. I do not believe that, because I have heard the Finance Minister of the Progress Party and her assessments of the use of money in the budget. With the current budget, therefore, the financial framework would have to eliminate both tolls and introduce the 45 billion. kr for which the Progress Party voted in June – i.e. 70-80 billion. kr within the financial framework that we have today. I don't believe that. Other things too are more shells than reality. It's pointed to an infrastructure fund of 100 billion. kr. Yeah, and you're moving $100 billion. kr from the oil fund and into a separate fund. There won't be any greater returns for that reason. This fund will really only have one meaning – it ensures that transportation appropriations do not fall below 4 billion. kr. I don't think that's likely anyway. It's the same with the designation of car-related charges. It's not like the Minister of Finance is operating with envelopes where one puts the different charges in an envelope – this goes into the big picture. The key is the willingness to give priority. In the case of a State guarantee, I have asked the Minister for Transport in writing: if one replaces a county and municipal guarantee with a State guarantee, how much will the loan rate go down? Did I get an answer? No, the Minister of Transport couldn't answer. I am concerned about choosing the solutions that provide the most way and path, and I think that part of the debate disappears a little in rhetorical grips and structures that do not lead to a single extra meter of roadway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1697	In the discussion about NTP, the Progress Party ignored itself by doubling its efforts. This must be the turn of the time. Siv Jensen guaranteed that all the toll projects would be carried out if they came into government. But today they're voting for a new toll project of about 2 billion. kr. They're running around and complying with a few bombs here and there, but at the speed they have, it's actually going to take about 300 years before they're fulfilled. Otherwise, I noticed that the Minister for Transport said that if it was up to the Progress Party, they had led a different policy. Then I wonder a little: is the Minister really not behind his own government policy? And the mention of government parties Right and supporting parties Left and Christian People's Party as petty, is probably not everyday food in this room either. The government of Solberg's dormancy within the harbour and fairway area is serious. It's incomprehensible to me that when the government of Solberg has so many extra oil crowns, they don't have the ability to prioritize, among other things. Napp in Nordland and Sommarøy in Troms. Nor has the extension of the Florø seal to the required depths found space for them. A little bit of history here: This project was late entering the NTP process. It was used during a year from the first time that the light of day was seen to be in place in the NTP, but then at a depth of 16 meters. And then afterwards, one actually needs 18 meters. So the joy was great when it turned out that a joint committee during the NTP process pointed out that it had to be deep, and was along with us red-green about taking in the project, even if it actually came in twelve hours. But today we see that the Workers' Party and the Center Party are left alone in this comment – SV is not in the Committee. I guess it wasn't that important for the government party anyway. Another remark from the Workers' Party and the Center Party is that the planning work on the E39 Schei-Bjørset must not stop. That the representative Lødemel owes in time that this and the seal to Florø are not mentioned by the government of Solberg, says everything about the trustworthiness they have in this matter. I would also like to remind the representative Lødemel that in all channels he rejoices that the Right had delivered when he got a note on the coastal road. Now the government has not even had time to enter such an important comment for our state. I find that there was not a single problem in the opposition, and the promises were mildly solved in the election campaign. But once you get the power and form to execute, you have a complete power of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1714	The representative Morten Ørsal Johansen, who also had a massive profiling of my surname, felt clearly offended by my post where I pointed out that all the uncertainty about government's bombing policy actually creates trouble and demands clarification, especially with regard to those who are going to guarantee to plan and expand these projects. Ørsal Johansen said that there is no local pressure on the project that I mentioned, i.e. E16 Bagn-Bjørgo. It's as wrong as it can just be. It was precisely because one in the region there is so concerned that this is being built, one came in here to the Storting with the main message that the plan was not to be stopped. Should the road become a reality, at least it looks to me today quite clearly as if tolls are a necessity. No parties in this room have – at least not so far – the money needed to remove all the trees in this country, whether existing or new, for example. related to the project that is theme here. I'm not a proponent of bommers, but I'm a proponent of road development. And it's not the Workers' Party or I that have come up with bomb promises and guarantees that now require clarifications, so I have to ask the Council of State to take this seriously. I would like to hear the Government's solution to the problem that has now arisen quite acutely in Valdres, linked to the E16. Can he, supplemented by Uppland representative Ørsal Johansen, promise state full funding and no bomb, or significant reduction in the bomb charge? In that case, the matter is resolved here and now. How will the Council of State at all contribute to the non-stopping of the plan, as the Road Service has said, to the current route? I think it's important that we get an answer here, because this is a small – and not just a small – example of the problems of the uncertainty that we're experiencing right now, which I'm sure we'll see more examples of gradually, and which has resulted in Nord-Aurdal's withdrawal. That's because you want to see what's going on. Then we'll see what happens, then -- and then maybe the Council of State can contribute to a little clarification here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1727	Through the examination of the budgetary position of the Committee on Transport, we can state that it is the framework of the national red-green transport plan that is established. This is confirmed in the correspondence with the Department and in the debate here today. At the same time, we hear that the Minister of Transport and several of his party traps say that the tolls are going down. When the frames are the same and the tolls are going down, that means there will be less money for road construction in the years to come. It's simple math. The formula is as follows: money on the road is equal to state funds plus tolls. When the toll goes away, there will be a total of less money. One can ask the question: is there a sensible policy? Of course, the Minister for Transport has many positive newspaper headlines about the three places he is now going to remove bombs – or how many there are – that are small projects in the big context. But the question is, is it in the big picture the right use of funds that we're going to give up the opportunity that we have to build more roads? That is quite right, as the representative Hagebakken – and more – just said: we do not use tolls because we are so happy with tolls, but because we are happy to go. And more roads can therefore be built if you can participate in partly toll financing. So I'd like to say a little bit about another challenge, the situation of the rail links between Oslo and Stockholm and Oslo and Gothenburg. We have to admit that there has been too little lag in the last few years – the last decades. Of course, we are most concerned about the national railway network – and should be – but we need to have plans for Kongsvingerbahnen, Grensebanen and Østfoldbahnen further than for Halden, i.e. to the border, so that we can gradually get full train connections to Stockholm, Gothenburg and Copenhagen. Finally, I would like to comment a little on the post office and the representative of the place said earlier today that the Postal Directive does not prevent good postal services. No, it's not, of course, but it challenges the entire Norwegian model we have for the Post, where we have a system of unit sports, where it costs the same thing to send a letter across the country. If someone then comes in and skews the cream from areas where it is profitable to operate postal services, there will be less money into the cash register, and more money will have to be spent on maintaining good postal services in the districts. The question is whether it is a good and sensible policy, and I am absolutely sure that the money to increase postal services does not have the Right and Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1740	Let me first join the many greetings that go to the Minister of Transport after he has today demanded his first billion in tolls. It is effective and effective. Let me also correct a mistake. I was so unhappy in the financial debate to say that if you take 0.3 pst., correspondingly, in the years ahead, it takes 300 years to remove the tolls that the Progress Party has promised. In these PISA times, someone has pointed out that it actually takes 333 years, but well, what's a generation from or to, when you're talking about these time horizons anyway? So the Progress Party says that we should not worry about what the Progress Party is breaking – to our voters, as they say in the Advance Party. I guess there are no games that own the constituencies. Well, that's how those parties ask for the voter's trust and tell us what to do – and then we'll do it after the election. And unlike all the parties in this house, the Progress Party said that only they came to power, they would do something quite different than what we had taken the heavy job of saying, that we should build the way at the rate we want, we must have tolls. They said no, we're going to build even faster, but without tolls. And now the Jam said in the newspapers that they haven't changed politics, they've changed rhetoric. Is it that when we get the bill for the next toll in the mail, we can safely put it in the trash and say that this bill does not relate to the rhetoric of the new Minister of Transport? Of course it's not like that. We have to deal with the world of reality, and that is what has been brutally happening to the Minister of Transport who in 2014 is going to be the biggest toll in Norway's history, and it would not fall to me to use Mr. Bård Hoksrud's words about the biggest highway robber. So some specific questions that we need to get answers to. Tore Hagebakken is absolutely right, we can't create confusion about this. In Trondheim, Kristian Dahlberg Hauge has said that the Progress Party will not have any new toll stations there at all. The drivers in Trondheim have paid enough, and they are a guarantor against tolls in the city, says the Progress Party. There are large projects, there are many billions of them for development – you have to plan, you have to order, you have to implement. Can the Minister for Transport, who comes after me on the platform, answer yes or no very quickly? Is it so that these promises are dead, powerless, buried – it was lurking towards the voters – or is it such that there will be reductions in the toll share in Trondheim? We need to know this from the country's Minister of Transport. Yes or no – were the promises wrong, wrong, gone, or should there be reductions? And, Trondheim, who's chosen for the country's best for public transport, is going to get the same 50 pst. the share of public transport investments even if we do not build the urban railway, as in Stavanger, in Bergen and in Oslo, or if the Progress Party only gives 50 pst. share in public rail transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1751	It is an incredibly entertaining debate when one hears many red-green politicians who are now beginning to demand progress on projects that they themselves would not prioritise and implement. This shows that one trusts that the new bourgeois government is more effective than the previous one, that we are able to prioritise more resources into the sector. But then I also hope that the red-green parties vote for it. The difference between today's government and the previous government is that today's government is a minority government. That means I can make a lot of suggestions to reduce or remove toll stations, but if the Storting decides, it won't happen. The challenge therefore needs to go back to the representative Giske. If he is busy reducing the number of toll stations around Trondheim – suggest it in Stortinget and get a majority! It's not supposed to be in the Progress Party. But the Workers' Party must contribute to it. I say that because the representative Sund just said that she would not oblige the Workers' Party to remove the toll station on Seljord. So what one has said is a small project – it’s so small that it’s almost not worth discussing that the Progress Party actually gets through for it to go away – it still seems that the Workers’ Party is required to collect tolls. The rhetoric of the red-green parties is not linked here. It's a problem for the red-greens. I am pleased with the support given to the new government in terms of a change of pace, by the fact that the cooperation already initiated with Sweden – which the red-greens did not succeed, but which we have started in less than two months – must produce results faster than the red-greens provided. The red-greens didn't add new money to cross-border railways, but now they expect the new government to do it, because they see that we're capable of action. We're going to deliver more than the red-greens got, but I expect that we'll have some time to implement it, and that those who have been in government themselves, see that things take some time. But they must be happy when a new government shows that it is going to solve the problems that the red-greens couldn't solve in eight years. The representative Myrli, for example, was out asking where the money went to the bridge in Alvdal – very critical of the new government. The fact was that the money was not put in by the red-green government, but the new government let the money in. The bridge comes – because of the government change. But it's not the new government that took the money out, it's the red-green that did. So I think the representative Myrli can appreciate this. Let me also stress to the representative of Myrli that in this debate it has been said by the government that NTP should be over-fulfilled. What the representative comes with is misquoted. It is not the case that one should take money from existing NTP projects to remove tolls on others; it is the question of providing more total money, so that both an NTP is implemented with a lower toll ratio than that to which it was subject, and projects are implemented in addition. Is it that very hard to understand? Is it so fast in the Workers' Party to mix plus and minus that the Workers' Party perceives the greatest effort on the road and the railway ever in this magnificence as a cut? It's going to be hard to explain outwards. With this government, there will be increased investment both on the road and on the rail — and with less tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1762	The representative Hans Fredrik Gruvan has spoken twice before and gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1765	In order to achieve our goals with increased bicycle share and safer school roads, the reward system as a Christian People's Party, along with the Left, proposed is a major act. We have great expectations that the Council of State will add up to a strong commitment, which really monks, when this matter is presented in the context of the revision in 2014. I hope the Council of State takes note of that. However, in order to increase the bicycle share and focus on prevention of road safety work, we need cooperation with non-governmental organisations. That is why we are pleased that a unanimous committee has said that it wants to grant 2.5 million. kr extra to Safe Traffic. Otherwise, I find today a great deal of agreement on a railway investment. For the Christian People's Party, one of the main actions, in addition to more money, is the establishment of a new railway company. That is why I am pleased that there is a majority on the Stortinget that supports this, and I believe that we can see that this is exactly what will be the locomotive in the further railway operation in Norway. And since it's approaching Christmas [[President clubs]] ‘There is always a train running. Why is it now doing that? When I don't remember track 2 o'clock. Three, or if she could do it, three o'clock. Two? I never reach a train, but I should."
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1777	I assume that if I take the last part of the rhyme, I get extended speaking time. A good transport policy is not just about money; it is also about how the projects are implemented and how we organize ourselves. Most of us are concerned with a more complete expansion and predictability, but at the same time there should be no bindings. It is not possible to create predictability and holistic thinking without clear obligations on the part of the State. That's why it's our opinion that it has to be thought of new. The carrier that the Right-wing-Fremskritspart-regierung will now establish will mean that large and important projects can be built with a predictable funding and with a comprehensive planning. Corresponding organisation may also be relevant for the railway sector. Similarly, OPS may be a current way of organising large-scale transport projects. OPS is not suitable for all types of projects, but may be very suitable for someone. Experience has shown that OPS projects have been carried out more quickly and with a foreseeable risk. Then it is not as the representative Sønsterud makes it, or chooses to believe, that OPS is primarily a method of financing. It's not that. There is no funding on the payoff either. The state is free to adjust the cash flow itself as one wishes in all types of OPS projects, and there is no problem in combining the strong capital situation of the country with a favourable down payment and organisation of OPS projects, so that we get the best out of two worlds. The Sundvolden Declaration states that an infrastructure fund of 100 billion is to be established. kr during the four-year period. We're already doing well: it's going to be set by 10 billion. kr in the current year and 20 br. kr in 2014. The return on this fund will be earmarked for transport purposes, and is part of the government’s strategy to ensure that a greater share of the oil fund is used for education, research and development, growth-promoting tax relief and transport, in other words investments for future value creation. The red-green government was only concerned with the proportion of the oil fund we use. This government is also concerned that we are actually investing smartly for future generations. Finally, a small comment to the representative Heggø. There are many good projects around our country. In our remarks on the budget, we have chosen not to go into the single project simply because of the time aspect, and we would hardly have finished before Christmas if we were to make it through all. But there are a lot of good projects and a lot of good projects that we'll certainly be working on in the years to come. So a little final reply from me to the representative Heggø: if there are many good projects that one would like to present, why wasn't that equally important eight weeks ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1796	I said in my previous post that it was a happy day, and then I talked about the road. It is also a very good rail budget that is being dealt with today. Growth in railway investment of more than 60 pst. has also been included in the red-green budget. I'm occupied with a route between Eigersund and Sandnes. It is not part of the national transport plan. But I see that if we continue the investment level that applies to 2014, we're going to get out of the 10-year period of 8 billion. kr more than the size of the project in NTP. I think that gives some exciting opportunities. I've also pointed that out in the media. It made Solvik-Olsen state councillor say that in record time I had evolved into a populist opposition politician. It must be a new type of populism, a kind of «honest» populism. When you propose not to increase railway investment by a single penny over the next ten years, you'll be called a populist. I find that a little bit special. I don't think there's a mood in this room to cut railway investments in the years to come. So for the purchase of services from NSB. In the last Question Time, the theme was sleeping cars on the southern runway. Then I discovered to my horror that the Council of State went quite far in signaling that he was prepared to wind up the sleeping cars on the southern runway. It will be a very bad grip from the Council of State, both for the Southern Railway and also for his own region. I hope that the Council of State can comment on that relationship. Furthermore, there has been a discussion about rewards. We could hear yesterday at the NRK Rogaland state council saying that there was no longer a charge for rush time in Stavanger. I have never realized that it has been a claim. But I wonder, is it such that the government has now gone away from the goal of zero growth in car traffic in order to get rewards? Finally, I also registered that the Council of State said here that if we make proposals, the Progress Party will vote in favour. Is that how to perceive that if, for example, the red-greens had to come up with a proposal to reduce the tolls in Trondheim, and so will the Progress Party vote for it in Stortinget regardless of the government's view on the matter? In this case, it will provide some interesting opportunities in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1810	Tolls have been mentioned from the pulpit repeatedly today, and the Labour Party has pointed out the consensus here in the Stortinget. I would remind you that the main reason for the touching consensus in all cases of new toll projects has been that one in the NTP, where one has placed the leaders, has made it a requirement. No tolls, no way, have been mantraed by the red-greens. Then the choice becomes disappearing simple. Tolls were meant as an important supplement, not as a resting-place for lack of action and willingness to apply new solutions. This government will do something about it. This is why we aim to reduce the share and, not least, to facilitate better organisation, modernisation and efficiency of the toll sector. The right measures must be taken first. Thorough assessments are lacking today. The red-green government has not enabled the establishment and industry to cope with the large increase in the use of tolls. The government has a clearly stated objective of better managing car drivers’ money in a way that contributes to several kilometres by road. We really look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1819	I thought I would spend the last 3 minutes clarifying a few things that have emerged in the debate, for the first toll: it's not like tolls last forever. Toll projects have been disbursed over 15 to 20 years. What this looks like in 333 years is not about the bombs that stand there, but about what to do with the new measures. The second is: I have so far read the Workers' Party's comments with goodwill. We are all aware that we had started to mention all the projects in our comments, we had a side by side with names, and we had gone on chords with all the work done in NTP. When we don't mention the name of individual projects, it's not because we don't want to, but it's because it's already in the NTP. I have also understood the Workers' Party that the projects that are not mentioned in the comments will continue to be built. I think maybe we should take that debate down a little bit. So there's a question about the right answer. Yes, right answer. This is now the case if you look at the experience, that no national transport plan reaches 25 pst. the first year. The proposals of the Stoltenberg government had a weakness: it was only 21 pst. on the way. But there was better filling on the railway. There is a slow start to something that will last for four years. That is also where the Right and Advance Party are. I believe that the Right is within the framework of what we have promised. We have increased the appropriations in relation to the submitted by the Stoltenberg government, and we are about to establish the fund of 100 billion. kr, to which we were part of the initiators. Then I want to say about the reward scheme: In the climate agreement, there was a new device on the reward scheme. There was more emphasis on results than on instruments. That's part of the climate agreement, and that's what we're going to do. We in Oslo and Akershus have good experience using carrots rather than whips. The growth in public transport in Akershus has been 38 p.m. in the last four to five years, and we have an increase in the number of collective travellers from 14 to 21 pst. without having a reward scheme and without using a purchaser’s price. This should be a joyous day, and so is it. I think we should note that we are now getting a budget that is to live with and that we are now going to complete it. Then maybe we'll get back to the fasit-- or we'll give it character-- in four years, once we've completed these first four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1832	Just first briefly to the previous post: if it was the case that the promises to remove tolls, which the Progress Party joined in the election campaign, were meant to be interpreted there until they were to be removed when the projects were paid off, I think that I, along with a lot of voters, have misunderstood that promise strongly. In that case, there is also a great deal of cross-political consensus on that promise. Secondly, I don't think I've heard a post that the State Council of Solvik-Olsen held in place. We just heard a government council abdicate. He said that if it were initiative, proposals from the Stortinget, which were good in this area, the Progress Party would support it. It usually uses to be the opposite, that a Minister of Transport prepares matters, submits to the Stortinget, takes initiatives and asks for the support of the Stortinge. So we now have a Minister of Transport who says that yes, we can implement some of the promises of the Progress Party, only the opposition of the Storting will take the initiative. The new Sunny parliamentarism is new, it is unruly, but, as Pollestad said, it will be interesting to follow it. Not least, it would be interesting to follow the vote of the Progress Party if there were proposals in the Chamber that tolls should be reduced. So says Solvik-Olsen: Well, it's just for us to do it. But the point is, we didn't promise. To take the debate where Kristian Dahlberg Hauge, of the Party of Advancement, who is now sitting in the government apparatus, says: “The cars in Trondheim have paid enough and we are a guarantor against tolls in the city.” So the representatives of all the other parties – the majority in Trondheim – Germund Lycke, from the Christian People's Party, say that he «sees tolls as a means of financing the second stage of the environmental package.» You got up, you defended, you explained, you said this is a necessary evil. It was the Progress Party and the Solvik-Olsen that said to remove all tolls. It was those who went to the voters and said, "Course us, we're the guarantor to remove it." If we sit in the Ministry of Transport, it is over to pay. Then we can say that we should be happy not to keep those promises there. I would have been happy if all the tolls were removed and could carry out all the road constructions without going beyond anything. If you had the magic wand that the Advance Party played in the election campaign that you had, it would have been good for everyone. No one wants to get tolls for the tolls. We said it was not possible to get it done, but the Progress Party said it was possible. Now the Minister of Transport has to explain where it will be. So he says, well, let's take some time. So let's just do it this time and time again. But these are projects to be planned. I repeat the question: Will these promises from Trondheim that Dahlberg and Hauge came with, and the Progress Party came with, be implemented in concrete terms? Shall we plan after that? Shall we build out after that? Shall we charge tolls after that? Or are we going to think that maybe we can carry out some of these projects, maybe we're going to demand some of these tolls? The Minister of Transport must answer that question. A disembarkation representative in Rogaland can sit on the couch and say that only you are proposing to remove tolls, I will pay tribute to it. A Minister for Transport must give clear, clear and unambiguous answers. Yes or no - will the toll collection be reduced or not in the large package at Trondheim? Answer here, to this pulpit!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1860	I hear someone is very impatient. We've been impatient for eight years. The representative Pollestad was very high and dark. Sometimes I think it's better to be small and blonde. With regard to this famous sleeping car on the Sørlandsbanen, it was actually Pollestad who was the thief, and who ignored everyone else's desire for a totimer's pace on the Sørlandsbanen, instead of a sleeping car. Furthermore, the same Pollestad demanded money for the E39 and questions about insurance. Here, I found The government of its own government has not allocated a krone in the budget to adopted NTP on this route. The former state council was out and promised in the election campaign – but no, it was pure bluff. That being said, there are only plans for a two-field road in adopted NTP, not a four-field, which we want on the same route. So it's not that we're going to start building a way forward, when we're going to build a way forward with four fields. Past road, it is the road of the representative Geir Pollestad and former Minister of Transport – a road with a tunnel without light, a road where trailers line up and barriers, a road where people die in meeting accidents. Future road -- it's us, it's us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1878	As expected, there was a lot of bomb debate today. I guess that's not so weird, because it's a special day with tolls. We've just passed 1 billion. kr in collection since the new government took up the offices, i.e. approx. Twenty million. kr per day. Then these 20 million a day have gone to build a road – we must not forget that when we discuss it. That's also why you have tolls. So to the representative Igstad on the fulfilment of the NTP, what we can at least see is that the red-green NTP has been founded. It is also the case that the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens have credibility in relation to the NTP, because it has been overfilled in the last eight years. There must be good enough reason to have credibility. When we set aside such an ambitious NTP for the next four years, it was of course because we wanted to meet it as well. But it doesn't have to be a quarter of that stuff. That's the way it is everywhere, that the periodication can be a little bit different. But when four years have passed, I don't think representatives of the Storting should be in any doubt that it will be overfilled. The documents contained here state OPS. It goes like a blue-blue thread through the notes. I also see that it is mentioned in the government platform. But in the government platform it is referred to as an implementation strategy. When the local representative is here and says that it is not certain that the funding strategy is to be used, that is the question in the air. Just that question I think is very interesting for Stortinget. As far as the Postal Directive is concerned, it will not cost anything – if you want to use the words that the place used here – in the sense that it should not go beyond the offer in the districts, it should not go beyond the cost of the postage. Yes, but at least it will cost a lot more, and I don't see that money in the budget. On the contrary, it's cut by 50 million. kr. So finally, I'm also very excited if the E6 package wins the Minister's draw. I have sent questions about it and have not received an answer. But I know it has been done, and I wonder if the minister can say anything today about whether the road will be free of tolls. Finally, I have submitted an interview, and I look forward to discussing constructively with the Minister and the Stortinget on the problem of trailers on Norwegian winter roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1893	The representative Sverre Myrli has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1896	I must say I am quite surprised at the tone the Minister for Transport puts on in this debate, because in terms of new bridges on the left. 3 in Alvdal, as he commented in his post, he said – and I noted correctly – that I had been ‘very critical of the new government’. I have not said a critical word about the Minister of Transport and the new government. I have submitted a question for a written answer. If it's critical to the government, I'm a little uncertain about how to interpret the work of the Progress Party in the Storting the previous two periods, because it's a system that hasn't been used very little by the Progress Party. Now it's done with the bridge. It's being built, and I've gone out and said it's very good. So all the favors of the Minister of Transport and others who have contributed to the construction of the bridge. If the Minister of Transport needs some encouragement – and speaking of Alvdal – I would recommend him, once he has his budget adopted, to go and see the new film «Solan and Ludvig – Christmas in Flåklypa». The Minister of Transport can learn how to make snow. But much more important for one who is responsible for winter maintenance: he can also learn how to remove snow.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1905	This is a strange debate. The councils don't answer questions, he's mostly talking about the red-greens, about what they've done and not done, and he's trying to get away with the questions -- as I see it -- pretty cheap rhetoric. It feels a little strange to me, but I hope he answers now. A visit was made to the undersigned that OPS was only a way of financing roads. Of course it's not. The part of OPS relating to planning and implementation is agreed upon. We've never disagreed with that, but that's the funding bit I've been talking about. I've understood that there's now a similarity between tolls and OPS funding, that's what the Council of State has said, so I expect it to come for full roll. I was talking about OPS in England, and that it was Margaret Thatcher who introduced it. I also said that many projects have ended up in scandals, and billions of bills have been sent to taxpayers. London Conservative Mayor Boris Johnson stated in 2010: «In other countries this is called looting, here it is called OPS.» The British National Audit Office expresses concern that the public sector pays more than it should to the OPS investors. Then I mentioned the United Kingdom. Neither has OPS been a major success in Sweden. I refer to the expansion of the new Karolinska University Hospital, where the entire project was described as a scandal. The Right Sister Party in Sweden, the Moderates, and the Swedish Finance Minister have said clearly that he will not build on chalk. He believes that OPS is carrying out the projects drastically, and he would rather use the money to build, for example: multiple roads and railways. At home, there is also little support to pick up in many environments. I have previously mentioned Trygve Hegnar, and I can also take an example from the daily press. The evening post wrote: ‘And as a form of financing, OPS is at best a tempting but risky experiment. This can easily lead to high capital costs being shifted to future generations and governments that will be tied up because we are unable to prioritise among the many good purposes of policy. In the short term, of course, it is provocative. The currant that can come later, it is not.’» It would be interesting to know what the Right Party and the Advance Party are actually adding to OPS. Is there anything else, or is it what has been the usual, and that has been used in many, many countries before us with very, very bad experiences?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1928	This debate has a bit of an impact on the experience that I have when releasing the cows on the spring pasture on the Jären. Then there are many who have been confined for a long time in a situation they don't like, and will disperse as much as possible. That's how I see the red-green parts. The representative Myrli points out that he has only asked a question to the Council of State. He did, but he also spoke to the newspapers, and there was the tone a little different. That's what I pointed out. He shouldn't forget what he says to the media, it's being read by others. The representative Sønsterud quotes others who believe that OPS is looting, while tolls are completely ok. No, that's the exact same thing. The only difference is that with OPS, a frequent bill sends to the Storting, it obviously doesn't like the deposit representatives. But if one sends the bill directly to the drivers, this is all of a sudden perfectly okay. This is no difference, because both of them are about borrowing ways. That means when 20 million is required. kr a day for toll projects adopted by the other batches, not all are used for road construction. Part of it goes to interest and administration for the collection of the money. That's where the Progress Party said this isn't... It is also no surprise and no secret that the Progress Party in the government has reached a compromise with the other party, because we give and we take. Overall, both the Progress Party and the Right come out much better than if we had still been in opposition. That's why both parties think this is good. The progress party must accept that there are tolls, but fewer tolls than without us. The right will be passed on to more projects than if they had not been in government. It should not be a surprise to a representative like Trond Giske, who I thought understood what democracy is all about. He has obviously been in a majority government for so long that what the majority of the population really means has not mattered to his Council of State position. Well, for a minority government, it's important to relate to what a large-scale majority at any time means. That means that sometimes we also have to mitigate the policy that the government would like to pursue, simply because we have to get more than just the Progress Party and the Right to vote for it in the Stortinget. For a representative who has been with and promised water in all the swimming pool, and who promised a moon landing, it is quite difficult to accuse others of lifting failure after just two months in government. Six projects have been proposed by this government to eliminate tolls. It would be very interesting if the Workers' Party could at least guarantee that they would support these six projects when they require the removal of tolls elsewhere in Hedmark, Oppland, Trendelag, Rogaland, Hordaland and the other counties. I am very pleased with the policy of the government. With this government's policy, there's going to be a greater commitment on the road and rail, better cooperation across borders, better accessibility and better road safety, because we're doing something with the tracks across the border. All these are things that this government has started – not things that we have inherited from the previous government, but that we have taken the initiative for ourselves. That's why the red-greens can make a lot of noise, but they're not going to have the pleasure that there are now others who rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1943	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1947	Even though the Council of State now calls the opposition to cows, I expect that after two months he will not have words on him to be arrogant. Therefore I give him the opportunity to answer my three questions one more time: The first is: is the new road company to be used to spread state investment over several years, or not? The second is: does the government promise at least to comply with the promises of the National Transport Plan at the Right Level, or has the government kept the electorate too fooled? The third is: will the government follow professional recommendations to ensure that the expansions that take place in and around Oslo and the other major cities, do we achieve the objectives of all transport growth that comes, are to be done by foot, bicycle and collective? Or will the Council of State not listen to the technical recommendations to achieve those objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1958	The representative Trond Giske has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1961	If the opposition is freed from grazing, it must be the case that the Council of State is on a stand. I hope, however, he can answer questions from this Chamber, for so far I have actually not understood that we have received a single answer to a single question from the Stortinget to the Council of State in this debate. We do not require the tolls to be removed. On the contrary, we have been upright for many years together with the Right, Christian People's Party, Left, SV and the Center Party and defended tolls as a necessary evil in order to implement the funding. It is the Progress Party and Ketil Solvik-Olsen that have promised to remove the tolls this year. The question is, are these promises dead and powerless, or are the tolls to be removed? Is the promise to remove the bombing in Trondheim, which Kristian Dahlberg Hauge gave, dead and powerless, or are they to be removed? Should reductions be carried out in Valdres, or should it not? Let's get a 50 pst. funding in Trondheim, as in Bergen and Stavanger, or are we not? You have to give clear answers to this, and you have to do it in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1974	The representative Eirin Sund has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1977	I would also like to stress that the Workers' Party and we in this Chamber do not require anything, but we demand that the Council of State respond to what they have guaranteed them to do. The Council of State has said earlier today that people from the Workers' Party are asking the Council of State questions and demanding answers because they want to get rid of the tolls. That's not what they want. They ask because they want to figure out what it's like and what you can expect. The representative Giske, the representative Hagebakken and I, for that matter, who now from Vegvesen has received Järenpacke 2 in Rogaland on the table, are wondering and will have explained how this is to be financed, and what we can expect to get. When the Council of State and his party have guaranteed that 100 billion. Toll debts shall be extinguished, it shall be out of the community's money, for I do not understand how to remove the debt otherwise. Then, of course, it's justified that our people want to get their share of the cake that you want to distribute as mild gifts from the community. I believe that the Council of State must answer the questions that are being asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1984	The representative, Geir Pollestad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1987	I have received an answer today, and this concerns the road standard for E39 Ålgård-Search. It's an answer that, in isolation, delights a rogalending, and I realized that Åse Michaelsen was very clear that one has gone away from the concept of a mint, which was previously chosen, to now go for a four-field concept, so that it also becomes a four-field road west of Lindesnes. It's isolated well. The council has not responded to what it will mean if one replaces a county and municipal guarantee with a state guarantee. We record that the government parties boast a lot of what this will mean. I have asked written questions, I have challenged the Council of State in other areas, and I have asked earlier in the debate. Before you keep bragging about what this will mean, I hope you can at least give the Storting an answer as to what you expect to get out of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e1994	This has been an interesting debate that I have been following. As Telemark has been honoured to be mentioned so many times, I felt the need to take the word. In the election campaign in Telemark, transportation was very important. We discussed a lot of bombs. Now it's pointed to a distance that the Progress Party has found some money for, so that a drop-off bomb in Seljord. But the biggest discussion we had in Telemark in the election campaign was about Citypackakt Grenland. Signed, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Geir Bekkevold and others stood up and ordered that there was a lot of good in the Urban Package Grenland, and there was no one else but current Secretary of State Bård Hoksrud who said that he guaranteed that if the Progress Party came into government, there would be no toll financing of the Urban Package Grenland. I think that the questions that the representative Geske also asks for answers should be answered, because there are more from, for example. Telemark that cheats on the exact same thing. It's also a little bit – what to say – boring that a lot now gets the answer that the Progress Party only got so much and so much percent under the Growing Choice, so they don't get to this. But before the election campaign there was no realism in that the Progress Party was going to get pure plurality in the Stortinget? I expect that they raised the Progress Party with Bård Hoksrud in the head have given their voters, were realistic. I know that very many in good faith have voiced at the Progress Party in Telemark because they would not have toll financing of the Urban Package Grenland. That's why I'm very excited to see what treatment the city package will get when it comes to Stortinget, and if the Progress Party is going to respond – because that's what they promised their voters in Telemark.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2007	I have sat and followed parts of the debate from the office, and I was called to action when I heard Åse Michaelsen say that it was the representative Pollestad who had parked the train bet on Sørland. As far as I can remember, it was in the setting of the previous NTP – I haven't gone into it, but as far as I can remember – a majority comment that the Progress Party also agreed to go in for both totimer frequency and night train. What I am now registering is at least that despite the fact that there has been – what to say – statements that suggest that you should continue to bet on trains on the South, the majority, even the Christian People's Party, goes out of the comment that really determines that you should seek to get to both parts of the South. The comment we had in the NTP setting is repeated in this setting. That's a good observation for the South, and it means that the Workers' Party wants the consequences for both parts to be investigated, and not just to go in for the two-time frequency. I must also say that it is quite strange to listen to this debate. We have a government that spends four billion dollars. kr more. We have a government that in transport matters does not answer one single question. Now I've been sitting here for ten minutes, and there's been more people up on the platform -- some of them for the nth time, I think -- and I'm asking for answers from the Council of State, which is serving the Ministry of Transport, and there's almost no answer to the questions that have been asked. It's quite eye-catching.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2018	It is obvious that there is a little bit left before the Workers' Party has got its position in its opposition role. So the Progress Party and the Right in Government are given more money to go, more money for the railway, than what the Red-Green Government did. Nevertheless, we get criticism that we have not started any further projects for which the red-greens had not found money. We've found some money, but it's obviously not good enough. It shows that this is really a lot about dissatisfaction with what they themselves got when they put in government. That there's going to be a frustration that's going to happen beyond the new majority, we're going to live with, but very constructively, it's not. It is no secret that the Progress Party does not get through to remove all tolls. I thought they had brought it when it became known what the Sundvolden statement contained. Now you're in Stortinget and later you're like you haven't got it with you, and you're asking for an answer as to whether all the tolls will disappear or not. For me it's no news when I tell the representative Giske and others that no, all tolls won't disappear. It should be publicly known through the media, if you want to follow up on the social debate. What is a fact is that the Progress Party has kept what was promised to fight against tolls. It has emerged that we have received a good government platform where both the Right and the Advance Party can be well pleased, because there will be more road projects and more railway projects being realised. The toll ratio will be lower than that of the red-green ones. In addition, you will get your own investment fund, you will get your own investment company, and you will be earmarked for some of the car-related fees. This is the answer to the question from the representative Giske and others: No, all toll stations do not disappear, and new ones will actually be created. New ones will be adopted later today, simply because they are part of the art of compromise. I actually thought that red-green politicians understood after themselves having run for eight years. At the same time, we see that the compromises have not worked in the red-green government. We can see that, among other things. in a number of newspapers in the West today, where the leader of the Central Party goes out and says that the E39 was not a cross-reference because they were unable to agree – they were unable to compromise. Then it's actually better to sit in a government where the Progress Party accepts that OK, we don't win everything on tolls, but we win a little bit. But we get built a lot more way by doing it a different and better way than the red-green ones, and then I'm satisfied. I can't deal with serious questions from red-green politicians either, when a former Secretary of State in the Ministry of Transport didn't find another penny to the Railway in the National Transport Plan, but as opposition politicians suddenly say it's $8 billion. kr which has been unexploded and can be used for the Railway. It is not possible to take such questions seriously. If we get serious questions, they're going to get good answers, but pure populism I don't have much to do with it. In the case of the representative Eidsvoll Holmås: Yes, we relate to the climate agreement, and we stick to the national transport plan. There will be an increased commitment to public transport in order to avoid passenger transport, but better roads are also needed for buses to get something to drive on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2037	The representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2041	There has indeed been an interesting debate, and I have really recognized that there must be something in the saying that attack is the best defense. For no matter where the actual representatives today have asked questions to the Minister for Transport, a rather bleak answer has been given that this has not been done in the years before. It is quite strange that you should not have the opportunity to ask questions about specific issues that are being prepared, without being told that this should be done before. It is also said that you are waiting for the initiative of Stortinget. On the other hand, it is said that you should have confidence in the policies of the Right Party government. I will reserve the right to be critical and follow closely, and I will ask questions and also expect answers to them. You will probably also get a feeling that reforms should be made for the sake of the reforms, not because they are necessary. Because it's just to give the most to get road development, railway development, ports, fairways and airports that count for the most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2050	The representative, Magne Rommetvei, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2053	The councils were able to say – when he was to characterise us red-green in the debate – that he perceives us as when you let the cows out in the spring. Now I expect the government to be the council of state for all of us, but when one gets into that lease there, I'm tempted to say that the party of progress in government is like calves and cows – and perhaps not least studs – who have been out in the open for 40 years and so suddenly are put on booths, and some even start biting in the creeps right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2058	I'm not going to do anything to prolong the debate very much. I really wanted to thank you for the attempt to respond by the Council of State, and then, as a representative of Telemark, I must at least be able to see that the Secretary of State of the Minister of Transport has given the break of time to his constituents in Telemark. Because there's a difference between saying that this is what I've been working for, and I'm going to do everything I can to do, and that's what we're going to do – rather than say that we're going to put ultimatum if we're going to take part in government, as Secretary of State Bård Hoksrud said. I'm going to be real enough to say that a few days after the election, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, the Minister of Transport, was out there fixing it. But I have to be allowed to point out – as both political opponents and potential candidates at the time – that there is something wrong with giving such guarantees four days before the election, as an opener when neither should or should have done. I hope at least that the lesson of this for the Progress Party, which is in government for the first time, is that one is somewhat more careful when giving promises to its voters. As Trond Geske correctly said, you need to trust the voters - it's not a constant group that you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2070	The representative, Kjell-Idar Juvik, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2073	I don't feel like a loose cow, although there can also be a rare view in the future of whether the policies of the Progress Party are being implemented – equalise the cheese toll. Then it's a little regrettable that as a new representative at Stortinget you're going to experience such an arrogant councillor. I think you should put on the smile and try a collaborative tone. But it's actually hard to answer questions, we've seen it in the debate today, but I've also asked the Minister three written questions. Two of them I have received a response today, after a long time, and they say nothing either. And I have a third written question inside, about an airport at Helgeland, and it's just as exciting to see if there's an answer to it. I recommend that the Minister choose another form of work and hope that he will have good cooperation – including with the opposition in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2082	The representative, Tone Merete Sønsterud, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2085	The council said it's obviously a long time before the Workers' Party realizes they're in opposition. Obviously, it also takes a long time for the Council of State to realize that he is a minister. He actually just keeps talking about what the red-greens have done and what they haven't done etc., instead of answering questions. But then the council says he can't answer the questions because they're not serious enough! What is this way of dealing with national Parliaments? If this is the way the Council of State is going to deal with the Biggest in the future, well, "arrogant" is just the first letter!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2090	I understand that there are some dissatisfied red-green politicians here who complain that they do not get answers to questions. But none of those who have been up and complained have repeated the question they believe they have not received an answer to, and then this sounds more like dissatisfaction than that they actually wonder about anything. What all of the red-green politicians up here took up, they were about tolls, and tolls got a response, but I understand that someone thinks that by repeating the toll criticism against the Progress Party many times, it hurts us a lot. But you know what: we took this out on Sundvolden, because we saw that we got a lot more politics again than what we would get if we were in opposition. So one gets a boost in the road and rail operations, and I've taken that whole list before. Other questions that remain, I don't remember, but I'd like to take them again, so I'll have a few answers. It was a question from the representative Pollestad that was about how much money you can save on providing state guarantees on toll loans. The centre party has asked two such written questions and received an answer. The point is, if they compare what the government adds up to, with what the red-green government added up to, 6.5 pst., then there's a lot of money to save if you get interest down to 2-3 pst. If you get a State guarantee, you can get down to 2 pst. The average interest rate at public toll stations is 3.41 pst. Then we said that some of these could obviously get a lower borrowing rate if you had a government guarantee at the bottom. How much in heads and ears? No, it will vary from loan to loan, Mr. Pollestad. So then you got an answer to that. You could try to get a heads-and-ear answer, but then I have to go into the single problem. This government will promote a case for Stortinget by another way of organising the bomb companies, where one assumes that there will be a government guarantee at the top of those companies, and then you will get lower borrowing rates. But give us a little more than two months, then a few answers to that. In the case of the road company, this is not a way to trick with money, as the representative Eidsvoll Holmås and the representative Marthinsen have given the impression. On the contrary, there is a way to better organise the projects, by ensuring that the person planning and implementing the project also has the financial means. Because then one can move on the time frames of the project when one sees that there is free capacity in the market. One could not with the policy of the red-green government, because then it was a project finance, but it was still broken up year after year. And if you wanted to speed up the project, it wasn't possible to move the money between the years. It'll be if you get your own company. That this appears to be a bad policy for red-green politicians, I don't understand, because the previous government thought it was very smart to organise the state's power grid that way: the state power plant, that is, State power – and also Avinor and Entra. A lot of different public tasks are organised through state companies – with the exception of road and railway. And where was the maintenance lag greatest in this society? Yes, on the road and on the railway. That's why it's time to think new. This government has a lot of energy to work on just thinking new, and it's going to do it in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2101	The representative, Tore Hagebakken, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2104	This time I was – more than criticising the government and the Advance Party – concerned that this round today might help to resolve the situation that we are now experiencing around the E16 in Valdres. I really tried to ask the Council of State a serious question, but I do not get an answer, and then I have to take it as a sign that the Council of State has no solution to that matter. But I would say, an answer – no matter what the answer had been – would have been very positive in order to get on with a problem. Here it has created an expectation problem that the government, and in particular the Progress Party, has a responsibility to join in and resolve. So I still hope that the Council of State will soon be able to contribute in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2110	It might seem that the transport debate is going to the end. I would say that it has been a good debate; it has sometimes been quite healthy and sometimes quite entertaining. But I'm very happy that in this room there is so much knowledge, so much competence, so much commitment to local road and rail sections and so many thoughts and ideas about how we can improve our transport policy. So it is that many individual representatives have promised much in this election campaign, but I hope that this government too will be measured – as the red-green government was measured – on what has actually been written in the government platform. Those are our promises to the voters. And then I promise another thing: everyone involved in transportation will have four exciting years to follow this government to build up more roads and lanes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2117	Regarding the E16, I mentioned in an earlier article that this government has invested more money for planning. That means that we can speed up more projects than the red-green ones even did. But when the red-greens themselves did not leave money in a project, it is unreasonable to criticise today's government for a project not being carried out this big year. When I see how many expectations there are from different red-green politicians that you are going to speed things up, here and now, unfortunately, I can't promise money to the E16, even if I would like to do so, just because I have a budget I have to deal with, which is now to be adopted by the Stortinget. I have seen during this debate that the red-green people believe that they should speed up the Ringerix track, even if they did not add money to it. So you have to do more on the Meråker and the Trenderbahn than they did on their own. You have to speed up roads and bridges all over the country. Toll stations are to be removed at high collection cost, said the representative Sund, but when discussing the specific projects, the Workers' Party will not undertake to remove one. So the debate admits that it's expensive to keep many of the toll stations open, but you don't want to give priority to getting them out. Then it's weird to criticise the government that the bombs are still standing, when you don't want to contribute to a majority to get them out. I am also very pleased with the signals that come about that one will now suddenly get faster efficiency of the toll collection. All of this will come with the government, but these are things that have been with the red-greens for quite a number of years, and that I'm very happy that we're now getting the chance to do, because it's important to do something about it. Now we have a government with power of action, which gets to deliver things faster. It is only to send written questions as well, so you should get good answers to them on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2136	Several have not asked for the floor on case No.1. Would the representative Abid Q. Raja have asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2141	Since you've beaten, I can draw.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2146	Then Abid Q moves. He had otherwise got 1 minute. At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2173	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to six lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There are two rapporteurs here, and the President understands it as Magne Rommetveit, rapporteur for case No. Three, which is the first speaker. It is then Linda C. Hofstad Helleland who is the rapporteur for case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2182	When the Stortinget is now to deal with the proposals for partial toll financing of Stokkhaugen-Sunde in the South Trøndelag and the Ashøy package in the Hordaland, it is historically, when there is now a consensual recommendation from the Committee on Transport and Communications on tolls. It is not only a recommendation for decisions on which the Committee is consulted, but also the comments of the Committee. As far as I know, this has never before been the case in this room. I would like to thank the Committee for its very good and constructive work. I want to do good for this, as the case spokesman for the Askøy package, while Stokkhaugen–Sunde will be discussed more closely in other articles. Ashøy is the second largest municipality in Hordaland, and when the proposition operates with a population of 26 000, the growth has been so great lately that today the island municipality actually has more than 27,000 inhabitants, which is a growth of almost 10,000 in the last 20 years. Today the municipality has over 50 pst. commuting over Askøybrua. It is with the background of these demographic changes that Ashkoy today has a strong need for improvement and organisation for pedestrians and cyclists. Improving road safety and improving road safety will also support a number of business start-ups in Ashkoy, thus reducing the pressure on the heavily traffic-laden mountain area. Toll applications cover 10 projects and actions that will provide general standard road network lifting. Some of these projects are pure traffic safety projects with the construction of pedestrian and bicycle roads. One of the collective measures is for the quick boat in Kleppestø, which is actually Askøy’s ‘urban track’ towards the Bergen centre. There is a thorough and broad local and regional policy process underpinning the toll application. Both the municipality of Askøy and the municipality of Hordaland stand behind, and the local business community also has our drivers and is positive to the Ashøy package. Several alternative models of the toll station have been evaluated, and four toll stations have been concluded, which will constitute a bombardment, where almost all traffic between Askøy and Bergen and all traffic between Ashøy zones pays tolls. This solution will meet the objective of the principle of efficiency in toll payment in a good way. This solution will also best achieve the local policy objective of involving the most likely road users on the island in the capacity to realise the Askøy package. The estimate of the cost, including full value added tax, is 1,540 billion. kr. Of these, the county covers 420 million. kr, and the toll part will be SEK 1,120 billion. kr. The county funding then amounts to 15 p.m., while the remaining 85 p.m. is toll-financed. Toll revenue of about 1,590 billion has been taken into account in the proposal. kr in 2013 price level. About 330 million. NOK is then to cover borrowing interest and approximately SEK 140 million. to cover collection and operating costs. Hordaland County Municipality has decided to provide the necessary guarantee for the loaned toll company to cover and the toll period has been set at 14 years. The Committee on Transport and Communications is concerned that toll collection is carried out as efficiently as possible, pointing out that it would be natural for Ashkoy Bompengegesellschaft AS to be part of a future toll collection company, in line with the ongoing process of simplified company structure, with fewer toll companies. The Committee welcomes the fact that there is a local desire to evaluate the traffic image after three years, in order to assess the necessary measures if the running pattern is to evolve in an undesirable direction. It will also be important for one to arrive at good solutions with local disruption around discount schemes and pass-by ceilings. The Committee also recommends a point at which the government is asked to assess the State guarantee if it can offer lower borrowing rates and that the government, in cooperation with the county council, can assess the change in toll rates and the repayment time. Although the Committee requests these assessments, it must nevertheless be stressed that the conditions for the toll financing of the Askøy package are as set out in the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2222	It is a great event to be allowed to deal with this matter if fv. 714. Ever since I joined the Young Right, which is a few years ago, I have been working to improve this path. It's really good to see that political hard work finally produces results. Fv. 714 is the main route out to the island region of the South Tribute. There is a very important road for the export of goods out of the county, and in particular the farming industry in the county, which is largely located here and which has a high need for good infrastructure for further growth. Exports of salmon and trout account for approx. 40 pst. of the total exports from the South Trøndelag. The fact that there is a great need to repair the road shows a look-up now – I was looking at the local view – and I can tell you that in this second there is a trailer full of salmon in a ditch. It's going down on the continent. The decision we are going to take tonight is very important. The so-called salmon road has a low standard today with many turns and problematic increases. It's an accident-related roadside billing, especially in wintertime. There are many excursions there compared to other county roads in the county. The municipalities and county councils of the South Trøndelag further prioritise the development and restoration of Fv. 714 to ensure a coherent expansion of step 2. I am pleased that the government is signaling an opening for the toll reduction period to be extended – at local policy request. Locally it is agreed that the financing of the project should be based on tolls and county funds, where 50 pst. the development costs are financed by tolls and 50 pst. by county funds. The toll collection shall be as effective as possible. The right-hand Party Government aims at reducing the number of toll companies. Also in the South Trøndelag, it may be possible for the Road Directorate to enter into an agreement with the Trondelag Bomvejselskap on the operation and financing of the toll project fv. 714. Although representatives from the Central Party in the previous debate on the budget, as we had in place, expressed great scepticism that government guarantees for toll loans are being introduced, and that the difference between the state being guaranteed and the state entering into guarantees cannot be understood, I am nevertheless pleased that the Central Party – and a total increase – agrees with the proposal to ask the government to assess the government's system of government guarantee for toll loans, where it can contribute to lower borrowing rates, and that the government, as in this case with Fv. 714, of course, engage in a good dialogue with the county council and together assess whether it is appropriate to change the toll rate and pay-down time through a State guarantee. Finally, I will again express great pleasure in the decision that the Stortinget will take this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2243	For years, the party of progress has fought against tolls without being heard, without getting through and without the drivers having noticed any difference. In the previous period was 77.1 pst. by the toll depositors in this room. After the election, this proportion has increased to nearly 84 pst. On 9 September, the people chose to strengthen the followers of tolls, and so I feel like a saying that we have now, for the first time, got toll opponents in government. The party of progress in government provides for lower toll rates through its government participation. The voters who have voted in the Advance Party have every reason to be satisfied. Yes, we have to vote for tolls, but these are tolls that would come anyway. In the summer, the bulk of population adopted an NTP adding up to an increase of 97 billion. Tolls for the next ten years, but the consequence of our being in government and having been negotiated with a common political platform is that more money will be invested in the next ten years, and the toll ratio will be lower than that adopted in NTP this summer. The Progress Party has had a zero impact in recent years, but since we are now part of a political platform together with the other bourgeois parties, we are already getting an increase of 1.4 billion in 2014. to transport – an increase that would not have occurred if we had chosen not to participate in the government. With the Progress Party in the government, proposals have now been made to delete tolls of 500 million. kr, and by removing five toll projects, while continuing to build the roads. These are toll stations which have incurred unreasonable collection costs and which have ensured that too much of the car drivers' money has gone to operation, administration and interest instead of being used for asphalt. Furthermore, the share of tolls on one project will be lowered and, on a seventh project, full state funding will be proposed as a direct consequence of our current government. Otherwise, we have been given an assurance that road development will take place via a company that plans and implements more comprehensively rather than piece by piece and split. It means more asphalt for the money. We have also been given the advantage that the number of bomb companies will be significantly reduced, so that there will be more efficient operation and less money for management fees, operation and administration. It means more asphalt for the money. Furthermore, we have had an impact on government guarantees through toll loans, so that we can get a loan at a lower interest rate. Then you don't let money go to unnecessary interest. It means more asphalt for the money. Due to the participation of the Progress Party in government, a majority of the Storting Transport Committee now say that new road projects will be financed with more government funding and less tolls. The fact that Stortinget now clearly says that road projects have suffered from a long time of lack of state funding shows that the Progress Party has got a hand on the steering wheel. The fact that a party that is against tolls is now in government has led to a shift in Norwegian transport policy. The progress party has now begun to remove toll stations, where the drivers have to pay for the administration instead of the road. In the two matters we are dealing with now, we have come to the fore that a unanimous committee is now asking the government to consider a government guarantee scheme for toll loans, so that it can contribute to lower borrowing rates, and we ask the government to consider different ways of reducing toll costs. We don't get to remove all the toll stations, but we get more road and less toll with the Progress Party in government than we would have done without the Progress Party in government. We're proud of that. All other batches are for tolls – that means the Progress Party makes a difference. The working party has also made a complete turnaround in the toll policy and is now saying that they will make the toll collection more efficient, so that as much as possible tolls go to road construction and not to administration. The Labour Party has done the opposite in the last eight years. At the latest in the election campaign, I challenged the Right and Workers' Party in Rogaland News on the stupidity of the fact that the State has borrowed money cheaply from the country, and has borrowed money back to toll companies with a much higher interest rate. I therefore called for a government guarantee scheme on toll loans, in order to ensure that the drivers had to pay as little as possible if the toll can be increased. The right then thought that it was an interesting thought, while the Workers' Party dismissed it on the contrary. It is therefore gratifying to see that with the Progress Party in the government, the Workers' Party has now also been committed to finding good solutions that will benefit the drivers. Whether it's populism or one I shouldn't speculate in, but it shows that the Workers' Party has a different face in opposition than in position. It is also interesting to observe that the Workers' Party is now criticising the Progress Party for not having enough impact on what the Workers' Party itself is against. But I'm giving them a chance and I'm giving them a hand to the Workers' Party: I hope on a later occasion in this room will be voting to delete tolls due west of Alta, in Gemnes, between Leikanger and Sogndal and a number of other projects that the government when suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2279	The President would like to point out that contributions to the Storting should largely focus on the matter at hand. After what the President can see, the matter is dealt with. 2 and 3 at least don't say about tolls in Alta. This is meant as a warning in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2284	In this proposition, the Ministry of Transport puts forward proposals for partial toll financing for projects and actions forming part of the development of the current county road network in the municipality of Askøy in Hordaland. Ashøy is a central municipality in Hordaland. It is the second largest municipality in the population and has about 26,000 inhabitants. It is a municipality that is and has been in great growth. Ashøy is a central part of the common labour and housing market that is in the mountainous region. In the proposition, it is established that the road network on Askøy has some poor standard. I can sign that. There is also a great need for reparation and organisation for walking and sick people. Better public transport both locally and for commuters towards the Bergen Centre is also a right to the future and absolutely necessary investment, and better infrastructure is also particularly important for the business community in the region. The development underpinned by the proposal for the Askøy package has been treated as part of the concept selection process for the transport system in the Bergen area, with the associated external quality assurance. The financing plan includes municipal funds and tolls. 15 pst. of the development costs is financed by county funds, and 85 pst. with tolls. The main part of the investment has been provided for the benefit of projects and measures to contribute to general standard raising on the road network. So there are smaller, but also important, measures, which will mean a great deal for more road safety. This means that narrow road sections are expanded, fluctuations are fixed, traffic-hazardous runs are switched off and changed, and this will be a big difference. In fact, an important measure in the Askøy package is also to provide children with safer school roads. The establishment of pavement and walking and cycling roads will contribute to this. I know that there has been a great debate at local level, where many parents have expressed concern about road-hazardous schooling. I must, as a health politician, be allowed to say that giving children safe schooling, and going to and from school, are very important public health measures. The largest collective action is the establishment of the collective terminal on Kleppestø, where there is to be a continuation of the boat route to Bergen and a parking space for the commuters. This is also important for the municipality of Bergen to avoid more passenger car transport towards the centre, and to avoid a negative development of air quality in Bergensdalen. Many think that the treatment of this matter is a brand day, not only for Ashøy, but that it is also a brand day because the Progress Party votes for toll financing in Stortinget. I say it's the worst for the Progress Party. It is the worst thing for local progress party politicians in Ashkoy, who have promised their electorate that only the Progress Party came into government, the Ashkoyværings would not pay tolls. It is worst for the Progress Party in Hordaland County, which voted against a request from the municipality to join the partial toll financing of the Askøy package, only to see that the Progress Party still votes in favour. The most important thing for the Central Party is that Askøy is now developing a better infrastructure in line with local policy and local needs. The ash package means an enormous amount for Ashøy. Speakers Siv Högtune has done a big job locally and has been a driver for the project. I notice that she has said that the cooperation with both the county and the state road service has been good. Although the dictator did not receive support from the Advance Party in Hordaland, the dictator today has a co-ordinated Storting in his back. I want to congratulate the municipality of Askøy on the realization of the new road improvements, including important walking, cycling and collective actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2303	These are two different road packages that are very important and very necessary locally. I am very happy that they are now coming into place and can be realized further. With regard to the Ashøy package, there is a package that was promoted under the government of Stoltenberg, and today's government has chosen to maintain it. We have a situation where one sees that the population of Ashøy is growing rapidly, and business is in strong development. Ashøy is included – together with Bergen – in a larger residential and working region. Unfortunately, the road network has very poor standards, and there is a great need for improvements and improvements, both on the road and for cyclists. There is also a need to strengthen public transport and to get more environmentally friendly transport. Work started with a 2006 transport investigation. There are 10 projects for action, and then there are some other measures, such as walking and cycling paths and minor improvements, including: the repair of a narrow roadside lot, the fixing of turns, cross-repairs, the closure of road-hazardous off-roads and the provision of routes with better pavement or walking and cycling paths. This is a big project, and it will be very useful locally. The second project is also very important because it is an important part of the export route in the region. This is also a matter which was raised under the government of Stoltenberg, and which has been maintained during today's government. Fv. 714 is the main road for the municipalities of Snillfjord, Hitra and Frøya to Orkdal and Trondheim. It is an important route for the local population and for the farming industry in the area. The road is also poor and narrow, and there are many excursions, especially in winter. We have to do something about that. A total of 10 sub-projects were developed in 2009. In order to keep progress up, it is proposed to treat the development in two steps. In step 1, four out of seven subprojects have already been started or completed. Now there are three others financed by county funds. The remaining sub-projects are of different size and at different stages of the planning process. Crossing Åstfjorden is the largest sub-project in the package, and it will be completed in step 2. The Ministry of Transport will come back to Stortinget with a case on the further development of fv. 714 between Stokkhaugen and Sunde when necessary clarifications are available. So these are two important projects. I'm glad the Storting will take them. It is natural that there will be a debate on how it will be financed, but once you have chosen the scheme you have, I am very pleased that the committee is unanimous, and recommends that you consider a government guarantee scheme for toll loans, and that one, in cooperation with county municipalities, should consider changing the toll rates and the pay-down time. It gives a space of action and an approach that one has not seen in such matters under previous governments. The previous government would not provide State guarantees for such projects, but was very reluctant to assess the amortisation time. Now, on the government side, we will have the opportunity to cooperate better with the county councils in order to find solutions that are better suited to the local population and local business. We will use this actively to ensure that the burden of tolls is minimised for the parties involved. It will be a pleasure for those who wanted a change of government. Anyway, we're going to make sure that the road is realised as soon as possible, within the limits that the Storting is now adopting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2320	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2323	As has been said by the rapporteurs for both settings, this is a good, local project, which has been developed as a local initiative and offers great opportunities for two important county road projects. In the case of fv. 714, this is a real value-creating region, which has had to live and develop its businesses in relation to a very dangerous road, so this is love. The Hitra–Frøya region accounts for more than 40 pst. of the export values in Central Norway, and so there are three full trailer loads of salmon leaving the region and out in the world per hour. No one's as busy as a dead salmon. The representative Linda Hofstad Helleland was very pleased to be involved in the treatment of this project, because she has had a warm commitment to the distance since she joined the Young Right. I don't know when it was, but what I know is that this section of the road really speeded up repair after 2010, when the county council took over responsibility for it. That is why it is good that Stortinget now agrees that they can collect tolls on the route and get a new project repaired – a project that is already in progress and that has had several improvements. At what the Council said in its statement, I would like to say that it is very good that you have gone in to look at the possibility of state guarantees for these two projects. Now, in the budget debate, there was a change of words about this very thing with state guarantees relating to the county council's ability to borrow. I've been accused of not reading the state budgets well enough, but the county budget, I can. We've always been about county councils borrowing on just as good terms as the state. This issue is now at the discretion of the ministry, and it will be exciting to see whether they consider this differently from the previous one. I am also responding to another claim, the one that amortisation time and toll percentage are to be assessed. We have examples from several projects where the tolls have been collected in advance, and you have cut down the payoff time, so there is no evidence to say that previous governments have had different attitudes to it than this. Then it was also that as late as October 8th this year, Per Sandberg promised that this road would be bomb-free. I have looked at the date stamp on the Sundvolden statement, which was October 7th – so I'm just letting it hang in the air.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2338	As a former state politician in Hordaland, I am well aware of the traffic challenges in the Bergens region. Ashøy is one of several municipalities in this region that have experienced a joyful growth in the population. But the joyous thing has become a challenge when there has been no room to be ahead of sufficient infrastructure development. The road network on Ashkoy is partly of a very poor standard and is not dimensioned for the amount of traffic currently travelling on these roads. Ashkoy Municipality has been a driver in the process of finding a solution to traffic challenges – which will not only solve Askoy’s traffic problems but also relieve some of the pressure around Bergen Centre. The fact that one in this package is able to get good collective action and other measures, such as walking and cycling, is very satisfactory. There has been a good process of broad local anchoring, where industry also has a very positive attitude to the project, despite too high toll rates. But this does not in any way show a genuine enthusiasm for tolls, it shows a alarming need for modernisation of the road network, where everyone is set on a plentiful path, and where all means are used to deal with the growth of the population and traffic. Ensuring a good development of the community will be the overall aim. In each toll project, it is important that collection and deployment are carried out as efficiently as possible, so that the car drivers' money is returned to the community as much as possible. I would like to point out in particular that the government's work on modernising and improving the efficiency of the toll sector needs to facilitate that one in projects such as the Ashley Package can make necessary adjustments to the tariff, discount and issue of pieces that are best for the inhabitants and drivers. It has to be customer friendly, and it has to be effective. In addition, one has submitted an evaluation in this project. That's very good. So, to Ashøy, congratulations so much that you can now put in place a long-term measure for a municipality in growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2350	Yes, now there is too much reason to put on the smile. It's a historic day in Stortinget. A total of two new road packages with a total of two billion will be voted for. kr in new tolls. I also believe that we have just dealt with a budget that is historically large. It is not the case that the Workers' Party wants the greatest possible toll, as some in the Advance Party are trying to produce it, and we are going to help look at the possibility of the lowest possible collection costs and funding. But I want to say right away, that doesn't mean OPS, because it won't be cheaper. The working party is too far ahead, and these two roadside projects probably would not have come now if the self-financing option had not been used. That's what real politics is. Today, the Progress Party must also realise this, and vote for 2 billion. kr in new tolls. I saw in the evening post on 29 November that the Minister for Transport said: ‘We do not change the policy. We're going to change the rhetoric." This was in connection with the fact that he had to defend the lifting breaches of twelve selected sections that they commented on in the election campaign, and from which they now go partly, or far, away. So my answer, at least, is that they've changed the policy. But they're trying as hard as they can to argue away from reality. This is the way in which the representative of Steffensen can say that we are working for a lower share of tolls, but at least that has not happened in this project. So it could be that there have been bomb projects adopted earlier, where it shouldn't have been, and then it must be that we who are now sitting on the Stortinget and in the government should look at it in the future and have the opportunity to say no to such projects. But then we must also be aware that it may take longer to realize the desired road projects. I believe that none of the two projects we are dealing with today come into this category. I also believe that there will be projects with OPS as funding. It's a precious way, and I'm glad it's not used in these projects. We see that also in the case of OPS, the Progress Party has reversed. In the comments, the lot referred to its argument concerning it. We've seen, as I said earlier today, that it goes like a blue-blue thread that you have to use OPS. That means you push the bill into the future. I am pleased that today we are agreeing to two new road sections – a total of 760 million will be invested. kr in Trøndelag and 1,5 brd. kr in Hordaland to new road. Finally, I note that from today on, the Progress Party is no longer in principle against tolls and OPS.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2370	A little more warning from the President, who will refer to Rule 55, which says to stick strictly to the matter under discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2373	As a former leader of the Regional Council of the West, where the municipalities of Sund, Eyegarden, Mountain and Askøy are included, this is of course a check day for me to be at Stortinget. The toll package to be adopted by the Stortinget today is, of course, much longer in the municipality of Askøy, but it also has a much larger regional significance, not only for Ashøy. In the region we have a common housing and labour market, so this toll package is very important for the whole region. The ash package includes, as mentioned above, a number of smaller sub-projects and measures to raise road standards in the area. Small sections shall be extended, turns fixed, crossings corrected and road-hazardous runs closed. On several sections, pavements and footpaths will also be built. One could, of course, hope that the state would contribute more to solving county road challenges when one sees the great downturn in the maintenance of the road networks in the counties. It was not much better before either, when the state itself had parts of these roads that have now become county responsibility, but it is good to see that this year's budget allows for increased appropriations for county road budgets. In the project in question, the municipality of Askøy has started to advance itself in order to secure the most dangerous traffic traps, and the project is now waiting for a decision from Stortinget to put full force in this important project for the region. There has been a good deal of frustration locally in our region, as it has taken a very long time to get this toll package treated in the department, but finally the matter is here. I consider the project to be very important, it is absolutely necessary, and it is a proper project to bet on. Priorities have been set on Ashkoy to ensure that the ten worst parts are included in this project. For Hordaland's part, I hope that in the years to come, we can get more such projects for treatment in Stortinget. There is a need to upgrade our road network in all counties, but in Hordaland, which is one of the major growth regions in the country, we are lagging behind with a lot of roads. When Stortinget accepts this toll request today, we are one step further in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2384	There are two important projects to be decided on today – important for the local population in Ashøy and for the local population in Hitra and Frøya. Such things mean a lot to the local population. I know, after four years in the Committee, how important such decisions are. There have been many nice days in the main hall, where we have had delegations on visits that have celebrated the decisions. It has been a long day, and I have not intended to make a big case out of this. Because our representative from the South Trøndelag, who was supposed to have posts, is coming late, I'm just going to make a few comments on the salmon road, as fv. 714 is called local. I registered that the representative of Hofstad Helleland said that the Senterpartiet was skeptical for a state guarantee. No, it's not right, it's unexplained by the committee chairman – I asked some representatives about how this would work. At the same time, the Center Party has said that we're in on the investigation that's going to happen. That is why it is a unanimous committee that sends this matter to the ministry. I have also registered today that asking something, whether you ask the department or others, is perceived as scepticism and reluctance. That's not right. It may simply be that you want to know more about the matter. I think one should take seriously that it may be a positive feature that the opposition parties want to know more about things. Then I registered that the representative of Hofstad Helleland in the Hitra and Fröya case declared that the salmon road would be transferred to the state. To be precise, at least it is not in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2397	I note that the debate in Stortinget is more than fine when the government makes toll propositions. Whether this may also be a call to the Council of State: he just has to come up with more, we'll get some. There has been some focus on this with the collection of tolls and simplification. And just to underline, it was the representative of Steffensen and the Council of State who was a little bit concerned about this: here we in the Labour Party would very much like to be present. We have previously taken initiatives to reduce the number of toll companies. If we're going to have one in the whole country, or if we're going to have one in the region, I don't know, but at least we have to reduce their use. At the same time, I would like to remind you – as I also mentioned in the previous debate – that the use of tolls is what actually determines the cost. If one gets the most -- preferably all -- to use tiles, one gets the collection costs. I hope that the Progress Party will be equally eager to agree to the introduction of a mandatory piece, not only on heavy goods vehicles, but also on other vehicles. I would like to thank you for the debate and wish for the South-Trundellag to close with a way for salmon – and Ashkoy with a way for the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2408	I need to make it clear that when we talk about the Ashøy package, all the inhabitants of Ashøy want happiness – they can enjoy themselves across the road. When we talk about fv. 714, it sounds like it's just the salmon that can be happy that there's come a new way! But there are also some people living out in the island region in the South-Trøndelag. There are many – in the business community and, not least, the cabin people – out on our shores who are overjoyed that this road is in place. There are some people out there — in addition to the salmon — who can be happy that the road is in place. Then it hung in the loose air – from the representative Kjerkol – when I signed into the Young Right. It was some years before 2010, just so they said. I was 16-17 when we started working on the salmon road, and never have I worked so long and so hard on a road cause like this. That's why it's very happy. To the representative of Pollestad, from the Central Party. I was a little surprised that in the budget debate he raised the question of state guarantee. He also referred to questions he had asked the Council of State and not received an answer to, questions where he sowed doubts as to whether a state guarantee had anything in common – just to clarify it. It is – in the end – very nice to see that a unanimous uprising tonight is ready to adopt both the Askøy package and the salmon road, for the benefit of the salmon and the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2419	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 4 and 5 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2448	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and six lines with replies after contributions by members of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2459	I would like to begin by thanking the members of the Committee on Finance for a good cooperation on the tax, tax and customs proposals. Tax policy provides important framework conditions both for business and for individuals, while revenue is the basis for the funding of the welfare state as we know it, and as we want it. One important starting point for the government is that values must be created before they can be shared. This basic starting point is also laid down in the cooperation agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left and forms a basis for fiscal policy. A safe workplace means a lot to each one and their families. And the great inequalities in today's societies are not found in tax statistics. The major differences are between those who are at work and those who are out of work. It is therefore important to secure jobs through a policy that stimulates investment in Norwegian jobs, by stimulating employment, by stimulating saving. The government wants to pursue a tax policy that strengthens the robustness and growth capacity of Norwegian businesses and that will help to strengthen private ownership – it will pay more to work, save and invest. The new government has, through its tax regime, given a new direction to fiscal policy. The main steps are as follows: First, the government — and is in the process of doing — a reduction in the overall level of taxation in Norway. The total tax reliefs from 2013 to 2014 will, following the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, amount to approximately 10 %. 7.3 B.C.E. kr overrun and SEK 4,2 billion. I have been booked. This shows will for a new direction, and it demonstrates the effectiveness of a new policy. The main features of tax policy are that general corporate tax is reduced from 28 to 27 p.m., and we are doing the same reduction for personal tax. It is important to maintain the same rate between the enterprise and the person in order to avoid unnecessary adjustments. So the tax structure is characterised by the fact that broad groups are allowed to take part in the reliefs. In addition to the changes in the tax rate, it is proposed that the property tax rate be reduced to 1 pst. at the same time as the bottom deduction is increased to 1 million. kr, or 2 mill. kr for married couples. The inheritance fee will be removed from the end of the year. This fee shall include, inter alia: difficult generation shifts in family-run enterprises. Furthermore, this is in many ways an unsocial charge that has made it demanding, for example: to be able to transfer family property to the next generation, in particular if there has been a combination of high market value on the property and low income for the person inheriting it. The loss of the inheritance tax is a major simplification for taxpayers and will also lower the administrative costs of the tax administration. It is important that framework conditions strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. We have a high cost level in Norway, and productivity growth has not been able to keep pace with cost growth since 2005. This has led to a weakening of the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs. The compensation of employees in the Norwegian industry is close to 70 pst. above the level of our trading partners in the EU and close to 30 pst. higher than in Sweden. It's a challenge. So a company with high compensation of employees must be between 30 and 70 pst. better than their competitors before they start competing at all. Competitiveness and productivity are serious challenges to which the new government must address. The evening post wrote on 13 September 2013 that ‘Right inherits a Norway in the headwind’. Growth in the Norwegian economy has slowed down, and growth estimates for this year have been reduced. Per capita, we do not create greater values in the mainland economy than we did before the financial crisis. The two-way distribution in the Norwegian economy is of concern. The non-oil-related part of the economy — and indeed parts of the oil-related industry — shows signs of problems. Investment in the mainland industry is at a low level, and it is a danger signal in itself that industry does not invest significantly in its own future. There we also lose competitiveness. The recently published NHO cyclical survey survey also shows a higher level of pessimism than in many years. With this background, the government has chosen the right tax policy priorities. In addition to tax relief at both person and company taxes, there is a grip, among other things. enhanced commitment to research and education, including: through a significant extension of the TAX FUNN scheme. In addition, proposals from the Stoltenberg II Government concerning industrial activities are: start-up write-offs for machinery, etc. and a limit on the interest deduction for related companies, were maintained together with the reduction in corporate tax – through the additional proposition and through the budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. We can therefore conclude that there is a broad political consensus on key tax policies – this is important for the predictability of individual taxpayers. In the budgetary agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, we agreed on a green tax conversion. Increased taxes on electricity by 0.56 øre per kWh and an increase in the base charge on mineral oil by 52 øre per litre are elements in this. Furthermore, we propose an increase in the travel deduction from NOK 13 950 to NOK 15 000. Another environmentally friendly approach is that we ensure that the tax benefits that are currently on an electric car should also be there if we choose to lease or rent the electric car, not only if we buy it, by extending the VAT exemption to the rental of an electric car and the purchase of batteries. Spread of power is a good principle, and it's about multiple dimensions for us. Strengthening private, Norwegian ownership is, of course, about creating safe jobs, incomes for individuals and the community, but it is also about something else. By providing private ownership, we contribute to the spread of power in society. Access to capital is necessary for both entrepreneurs and established enterprises in order to develop further. It is important for the government to ensure that risk capital becomes attractive. Therefore, saving and investment-stimulating schemes are important framework conditions for growth. The government responds to these challenges, including: through its fiscal policy. The spread of power is also about giving individuals and families greater financial space for action, including: through tax relief. This makes it possible for individuals and families to choose more appropriate solutions to their everyday lives. It's not bad welfare to increase people's freedom of choice. Nor is it poor welfare to pursue a policy that makes it apparent that we have confidence in individuals. Half of the population has revenues between 350 000 and 1 million. kr. These receive half of the total relief from personal tax. This group, which includes ordinary employees, has received little tax relief in recent years. The relief for those with low incomes is due in particular to increased rates of the minimum deduction of wages, salaries, social security and pensions. If you have low income in Norway, you pay little tax. The changes in the tax for this group will then necessarily be small. The right went to the elections to give Norway a civil government with new ideas and better solutions, and the voters showed us confidence. Although the government has had only a few weeks to work on proposals for changes in fiscal policy, we have succeeded in making changes in important areas that show a clear direction: a tax policy to stimulate employment, saving, investment, safe jobs and a more robust and competitive business. This proposal also addresses proposals for land-by-country reporting, the size of companies operating in the extractive industry and/or forestry sector in non-planted forests, shall draw up and publish an annual report on their activities, including payments to authorities at land and project level. This is an important step towards combating economic crime and in particular the exploitation of developing countries. It is positive that the government has committed itself to a more ambitious level than the EU directive on which it is based. Transparency and easily accessible information are important steps to avoid both corruption and the exploitation of commodity stocks in particular in developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2510	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2513	I believe the representative Meling and I agree that it is our joint work that is the basis of the welfare society. We are then dependent on high levels of professional participation, low levels of unemployment and good use of labour. As in most other cases, the Right wants to solve that challenge through tax cuts. It will pay to work and make an extra effort, writing right on their websites. With the tax treatment provided by the Right-wing Government, they receive 4 per cent of the million income. 40 pst. of the tax cuts. The 70 % of the lowest income is allocated to approx. 23 pst. So most people get 50 dollars per day. How much more does the representative Meling estimate that people are willing to work because of the extra 50?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2518	There's a lot of good reasons people have to work. Wages and salaries are, of course, an important reason, but what is a major challenge for differences in Norway is not found in tax statistics. That's what we find between those who are inside and those who are out of work. That is why the government is leading a policy that should not only stimulate more and safer jobs, but also encourage people to work, to save people and to invest. Let's do that, for example. through tax relief to people, which we believe will stimulate more people to want to be at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2523	In connection with the tax debate of the year, many rounds have emerged around the inheritance tax, which the new government wants to remove completely. In the context of the financial debate, a proposal was made to investigate the impact on farmers, which is a small part of individual enterprises. My question to the Right is: why are there only farmers you want to investigate the consequences for, not all other individual enterprises or self-employed people when there are more than 200,000 affected by that change, and you do not know the answer? Why is it important to assess the consequences for farmers and not for all other plant owners, taxi owners, excavators and other groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2528	One of our election vows was to remove the inheritance fee. It is very gratifying that the government already in its first budget removes the inheritance fee in its entirety from the turn of the year. This means that there will be a lot easier generation change in many cases, and that means that we're releasing a lot of bureaucracy both for heirs and for the authorities. As for the farmers and their situation, the government has said that we will come back to the revised budget with an investigation of exactly this group. As far as the others are concerned, it is clear that the re-registration schemes to compensate for the inheritance fee are now falling away when the inheritance fee falls. It's natural that these write-up possibilities then fall away.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2535	On the initiative of the Left, the Left, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party will launch a joint proposal in February 2008 to introduce tax exemptions for the research institute receiving basic government concessions. The proposal has been repeated by the Left, Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party by almost all budget management since 2008. It has just as often been voted down by the daring plurality, which consisted of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. Now, on the other hand, the Right, the Advance Party and the Left plural, but in today's setting, the Left remains alone to propose what we were about before the election, and has been a few since 2008. I hope the representative Meling can confirm that this is due to a combination of button frames and deadlines, and that the Right once again helps to form multiples at the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2542	The proposal to which Mr Breivik refers is a good one, and it also underlines the need for research. New knowledge and innovation are key drivers for job security. At the same time, this proposal is not part of either the cooperation agreement or the Sundvolden declaration, but there are many other good proposals to strengthen research. Among other things, we want to strengthen research efforts to achieve the objective of 3 pst. of GDP by 2030. The government has also said that it wants to promote excellent research environments by establishing several Global Centres of Expertise, to mention some of the measures in government plans in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2550	I have noticed that a phrase Right, both the representative Meling now and the representative Fleet before, often uses, is that you do not find the important differences in tax statistics, but between people who are in and out of work. That's rhetorical, but the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party often refer to when we talk about differences, are actually statistics of differences. It's like you're less likely to travel if you're out of work, but we're talking about objective criteria to measure inequality, for example. through the Gini method, which is internationally recognised. And after the Gini method of measuring inequality, the differences in Norway have fallen in Norway while the red-greens have fallen, as they have increased in almost all countries around us, and it will increase with the right-hand side's tax regime. So I'm just wondering what the representative Siri Meling means when she says that you find differences only in and outside of the labour market and not in tax statistics, when it's true that in many countries there's a huge inequality due to right-wing policies?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2559	I think for the person who's not in the world of work, rhetoric means little. Being a part of the world of work means that you are able to pay your bills and support yourself. It is an important quality of life, as well as the fact that as a society we depend entirely on the greatest possible extent of our working life. I would still like to say that there are differences in Norway, between those in work and those outside — not in tax statistics. There are 600 000 people today between 18 and 67 years of age who are out of work living with health-related benefits. It is important to see, among other things. how we can be able to include more people in our working life just to avoid major inequalities in our society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2566	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2569	There are probably several of us who have a feeling that the tax and tax issues were debated quite thoroughly over the 14 hours of the financial debate we had last week, so there's no need to put on the repeat button and re-run the whole sequence. I don't think any of the parties have changed their perception fundamentally since then. Anyway, let me take some main points. Over the past eight years, the objective of fiscal policy has been to ensure the effectiveness of Community revenue, to contribute to fair distribution and a better environment, to promote employment throughout the country and to improve the functioning of the economy. It's an ambitious goal for a tax system, but I think we've made it far on the way. The basic approach to taxation in Norway has been to ensure a broad tax base. Most economic activity is taxed in some way in this country, but in return we have been able to operate at relatively low rates. In a welfare state model, based on fissures and solving the big problems together, it is the right approach to taxation. Wide basis ensures that it is difficult to adapt to the tax position, that the system becomes fair and that resources are channelled where they are most useful, not where they are subject to the least possible taxation. This allows the rates to be kept at a level that does not provide too tough a framework for business. The economy benefits from an orderly country with access to infrastructure, access to a highly educated and productive population. It makes us, Norway, a convenient place to do business, and of course, business should be involved in financing it. There are both smart and less smart ways to set up their tax system. In Norway, we have largely managed to do it in a very smart way. In recent years, extensive maintenance work has been carried out to ensure the tax base. There have been several important tax changes, which have helped to overcome extensive tax adaptations. The harmonisation of the tax system, the elimination of adjustments and the elimination of loopholes have made it possible to keep tax rates down. The proposal to limit the possibility of deducting debt interest on intragroup loans is a new important step in protecting the tax base. There are many countries that have already introduced variants of such rules, and it has gradually become absolutely necessary to find mechanisms to prevent profit from being moved out of countries with a high tax level, such as welfare countries, while debt remains. This trend contributes to undermining the country’s ability to finance common resources, and it is not without reason that capital flow and aggressive tax planning are being raised by an increasing number of factors, including: by Ecocrim, as the main threat to the welfare state. This approach also strengthens the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises which are not part of a multinational group. Moreover, by sealing this tax haven, it is possible to lower the corporate tax by 1 percentage point. It goes directly on the bottom line of businesses and contributes to enhancing the competitiveness of the competitive industry. It is a far more targeted measure to strengthen Norwegian business than to go through the personal tax to the most prosperous of the country. One of the things I'm most proud of in Norway is that we're a country that, despite a very open economy, has managed to maintain a income structure that's as flat as it actually is -- not just based on an idea of justice and solidarity, which are fine values, but because we've become one of the foremost empirical examples the world has seen that small differences provide a well-functioning society and amazing economic results. But it seems that some people think it's natural that Norway should be like this. That's wrong. Maintaining small differences is an eternal struggle. There are mass inherent mechanisms in a market economy that are moving strongly towards increasing differences. If we do nothing, the differences will increase by themselves. The red-green government spent its eight years in government strengthening the distribution mechanisms of the tax system. In sharp contrast to all countries around us, income differences have decreased in Norway when compared to 2005. There is a direct result of changes in the tax system: the introduction of dividend taxes, the conversion of pension taxes and the targeting of property taxes. From being – under the Bondevik government – a tax that was largely paid by pensioners, who had some money on book, the wealth tax is now the most important mechanism in the tax system that ensures that all the most wealthy actually pay taxes at all. So we strengthened the distribution mechanisms. The government's adding up to the opposite. They do not strengthen the distribution profile, they do not maintain the distribution profile, they weaken it. The distribution profile of the 4.7 billion. kr, which is divided into tax cuts, is very clear. Those with the lowest income get less than one dollar a day. It is not going to cover up for either school fruit that was gone, increased kindergarten prices, or, to pick up the thread from the previous debate, the increased tolls that the government is now placing on people next year. But those with revenues over 2 million. kr gets an average of almost NOK 40000. In 2014, income disparities between people in Norway will increase. The Ministry of Finance's own calculations are our source of it. The differences will increase slightly temporarily, for all parts, but as the government parties have repeatedly repeatedly: this is the beginning. There's going to be a clearer profile on this in next year's budget. I think it is alarming that we are getting a new course for Norway in this area. It's a course that goes in the wrong direction. The right-hand side argument for this device on the tax havens is that they want to bake the cake bigger. The tax havens of those who are the best in it from now on are going to benefit us all through increased economic activity and improved growth capacity in the economy. There's no historical evidence that it works, but we have a lot of examples that it doesn't work. And the argument about wanting to strengthen the supply of work is in a strange light when, at the same time, the government is presenting a complete arsenal of measures, which collectively are going to reduce women's job opportunities. This is not a new financial debate, so I am not going to go into either kindergarten prices, the number of admissions to kindergarten or cash support. However, it is the combination of these measures and the tax-based approach, with the reintroduction of class 2 for married couples, which gives cause for concern. We all agree that it is the value of our own work that will carry us as a nation in the future. Measures that make working less profitable are definitely not the way to go. Here, too, the government staked out the wrong course. In the charging field, the overall structure of the Stoltenberg II government is continued. It could have been tempting when you first stand here, to make a point out that alcohol taxes are increasing with the Advance Party in government. I'll let that lie. We have all thought that it makes sense to adjust the price of excise duties. That is a good principle. Now that the government has got a new estimate for the growth of consumer prices next year, we choose to deal with it and support the adjustment of the excise duties imposed by the government. And it must be the first time in a very, very long time – if ever – that the Storting is as united as we are now about the level of fees in this country. It's worth taking with you. Then the civil budgetary agreement also adds up to an increase in the mineral oil levy. The working party and SV choose to support that proposal. It's going to give you $600 million worth of proceeds. that we are spending on a further reduction in the minimum deduction of wages, social security and pension income in order to further strengthen the distribution profile of the tax scheme. On one essential point, we separate laws with the bourgeois. Over several years, the red-green government has changed the car charges to make it more profitable to buy climate-friendly cars. The changes have been proven to be neutral. In fact, the overall level of charges has fallen slightly as a result of the changes we have made. However, the main approach has been to gradually reduce the weight-effect component of the one-off charge and increase the CO2 component. It's politics that have worked. New cars release 30 pst. less CO2 today than very few years ago, and we have analyses to show that changes in charging policy are the most important explanation for this. So this is good policy. We added to the 2014 budget to continue that conversion, but it's up to the government to reverse it. To me, it's completely incomprehensible. It's bad climate policy, and it's not even money to save on it. The climate agreement has very ambitious targets for emissions from cars. There are goals that it may be difficult to achieve, but we have a government where the Prime Minister has called for tightening up on the climate deal, and I had honestly expected something else from a government that claims that it does not need to define climate as one of its eight main projects, because climate is so important that it is going to permeate everything the government does. Finally, I would like to say a few words about country-by-country reporting. I am pleased that the bill on country-by-country reporting has been presented, and I believe that it is a good tool for combating corruption and ensuring democratic control in the countries where the extractive companies operate. I can't get enough emphasis on the importance that governments, politicians, civil society and people in most of the countries in which these companies operate are given the opportunity to check whether the contribution that the company makes to the state in the form of taxes is proportionate to the activity that the company has in the country. Internationally, there are many, many examples that this is not always the case — to say it carefully. Last week I met a number of representatives from different African countries. They were very concerned about exactly this. At the same time, we have heard the recordings from Norwegian organisations that have been very involved in this particular issue for a long time and that have called for tax evasion as part of the purpose of the law. I think it is good that a total increase voted to ask the government to look at how tax evasion can be part of the purpose of the law, when we dealt with the financial position last week. In the setting of the bill proposal today, Innst. 4 L, promotes the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's proposals for the concreteisation of this. Among other things, we pray: examining whether reporting requirements should be imposed on all countries in which companies operate. It will include countries where companies have support functions. In many cases, there will be tax havens. I hope that there are proposals that can get the agreement of the other parties. I take this up with me the proposals from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2613	The representative Marianne Marthinsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2618	It's a little interesting to hear Martinsen's representative criticise the government for the climate, when her own party leader didn't mention the word once during her country meeting in spring. But my question is about something else. Unlike the Workers' Party, the Right is not engaged in detailed management of each individual. We're busy spreading power. For us, this means democracy and freedom of action for the individual. My question is what the spread of power means for the Workers' Party. Does it matter at all? And is there anything in the tax arrangement of the Workers' Party that underpins what you might think about spreading power?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2625	First of all, I can assure the representative Meling that the Workers' Party is for democracy and believes that it is a central value in a society. Then the word «power spread» has gone as a farce in the campaign. The right has made it one of its key concepts and uses it as often as they can in all kinds of posts, so it's a word that's sometimes about to lose some of its content. For us, the spread of power will be about enabling people to live the lives that people want to live. On the right-hand side, the answer to that kind of question has always been tax cut. The answer has always been that if as much of its own income as possible remains and is left to a market to ensure education, to ensure health insurance and to take care of itself, it will contribute to the freedom of people. That's where we separate ideological layers. For the Workers' Party and for a single left-hand side, it has always been important that broad welfare systems form the basis for human freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2636	For approx. Ten years ago, studies showed that 15-20 pst. the fluctuations in the mainland economy could be attributed to changes in oil activity or oil prices. Now there's reason to think that this share has increased to over 40 pst. At the same time, we have a situation where the level of investment in the mainland industry is historically low. Does this development not really show that the arrangements for the tax system for mainland Norway in the last eight years have not been particularly smart?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2643	We share the concern of the representative, Mr Limi, for increasing two-foldness in the Norwegian economy, and that was the background for the Stoltenberg government to present a growth package in the context of the revised budget, which included: as a principal act, the corporate tax was reduced by one percentage point. It goes directly on the bottom line of enterprises and helps to strengthen the competitiveness of these enterprises. There is an absolutely necessary trend in a world where there is strong competition for corporate tax, and where we see that the trend has been strongly downwards in all countries around us. We had one of the lowest corporation tax rates in the OECD, now we have one of the highest. Obviously, it's a challenge. So I would say, as a more general comment, that when you're busy with bipartition in the economy, it's strange that you answer in your first budget by increasing oil dependence, increasing oil money use, cutting into targeted schemes, for example. fisheries, continental industries and agriculture, which may contribute to the smoothing of that difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2650	Thanks for a broadly balanced contribution from the Workers' Party. I want to ask a little about country-by-country reporting. The representative was in the bill that was from the government. That bill has become sharper, I would say, through the Stortingen process, where tax adaptation becomes part of the purpose of the law. In a few weeks, the three previous government parties have not only changed their position to be part of it, but also made a stronger proposal. My question is: Since the objections to the bill were well known also when the government of Stoltenberg was to present its proposal to the government budget, is this freedom one of the many advantages the representative of Marthinsen sees as not being in government anymore?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2659	I believe that the bill presented by the Stoltenberg government was essentially good, as a tool for combating corruption, and as a tool for ensuring democratic control. What's happened over the past few weeks is that we've been listening to recordings from the organizations that have been involved in the bill, and that's how democracy works. We believe that it would be good to now examine the possibility of including tax evasion as part of the purpose of the law. There's nothing more than an investigation we're asking for, in order to lay the groundwork for incorporating this into the law at a later stage. We clarify how this can be done and mean, among other things. that it would then be natural to consider whether setting reporting requirements from all countries where these enterprises operate would be an effective measure to ensure that this is the case. I hope then, as I mentioned in my post, that these are proposals that will be received, among other things. The Christian People's Party's accession.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2667	Of a number of clearly unmotivated tax proposals that have come from the previous government in the last eight years, the proposal to introduce a short-term profit tax model for housing is one of the most difficult things to understand. One consequence of the proposal is that persons added by the Norwegian State and ordered on behalf of either a place in the country other than where they live, or to the abroad for shorter periods, are penalised for tax purposes at the hall of their own residence if the dwelling is rented out at the time they are charged to the Kingdom. Why do I represent Mr Marthinsen and the Labour Party believe that this is a sensible and logical tax change?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2674	The problem with the system we have had for taxing the profits of selling housing has been that we have had a very unfavourable adaptation to the legislation that was. I think most people will be able to stay for one year in a dwelling in order to avoid taxes on sales. That is why we have developed a regulatory framework that will be fairer, which will be more difficult to circumvent, and which will reflect the actual time spent living in the dwelling. They thought we were a sensible proposal. We take note that it no longer has a majority in the Storting and is going to fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2679	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2682	For the Right-wing Party Government, taxation is not an objective, but a means, and the government will use the tax system to finance common resources, secure social mobility, achieve more efficient resource use and provide better conditions for Norwegian business. Private ownership needs to be strengthened, and more money is needed to work, save and invest. In addition, the government will stimulate more environmentally friendly behaviour. In the budget agreement, the government has received the agreement of the Christian People's Party and the Left to the main lines of the draft government budget for 2014. The proposed fiscal framework for 2014 shows a new direction for Norway. Under the red-green government, tax levels increased. Now a new line of fiscal policy is being drawn by proposing total tax reliefs of around 7.3 billion. kr compared to the proposals of the Stoltenberg II Government. For the development of the mainland economy, growth-enhancing tax relief, together with increased investment in infrastructure, education and research, are important contributions to ensuring future well-being. There is reason to recall that in the OECD context only Denmark has a higher tax level than our mainland economy. The proposed tax reliefs in the 2014 budget agreement contribute to reducing the tax burden on the mainland economy and are one of many steps in the right direction. Changes in the tax system do not only affect economic growth. An overall tax debate must focus on several elements such as efficiency, distribution, simplicity and ability to collect public funds. Changes in tax systems and levels must not motivate new adjustments and misuse of resources for tax optimisation. An isolated reduction in the corporate tax rate in 2014, as proposed by the Stoltenberg II Government, is not a good solution. Different rates of general income tax for persons and companies make the tax system less transparent and invite adaptations. In addition, the proposal violates predictability and lays down principles from previous tax reforms. Government proposal to reduce the general income tax rate from 28 to 27 p.m. for persons and companies, important growth promotion measures are in addition to ensuring transparency and avoiding adaptations. The profile of the 2014 tax package has already been a highly debated topic. The red-greens focus on the effect of the highest and lowest incomes, where tax reliefs produce a large or small crown effect. For the government and the majority parties, it is important to provide tax relief to broad groups of the population because these changes will have the most positive impact on the mainland economy. Half of the population has revenues between 350 000 and 1 million. kr. With the arrangement of the government, this group will receive approx. half of the total relief from the taxation of persons. This represents a large majority of Norwegian employees, who have received very little tax relief in recent years. At the same time, there have been tax increases and new taxes have been introduced, such as: tolls. The relief for those with very low income is mainly due to increased rates of the minimum deductions. The debate on taxes and taxes tends to be very predictable and to be isolated for purely distributional effects in society. The left has some conviction that there is an automatic link between the level of taxation and the quality of welfare schemes. One krone in increased taxes shall provide one additional krone for increased well-being. It's not like that. There's no such automatic context. Despite high levels of taxation, tax increases and oil revenues in the last eight years, there has been little improvement in transport, health or education — rather, on the contrary, many claim. While appropriations have increased, bureaucracy has also grown, and the Norwegian level of costs has become extremely high compared to other countries in Europe. Welfare is not free even if it is public; some have to finance the goods to be distributed. The tax system therefore needs to be designed to promote employment, investment and saving, both in enterprises and in households, and to provide sufficient funding to address acute needs in key societal areas. Robust tax revenue is essential in order to finance public welfare goods and income assurance schemes. There are far more important contributions to redistribution than the contribution of taxes to the balancing of income. The government’s growth-enhancing tax relief thus contributes to ensuring future well-being without creating strong zero-tax contributors. In addition, the government's proposals are in line with the conclusions of economic research and, according to OECD recommendations, to reduce labour, saving and investment rates are the best growth-promoting tax incentives. The government proposes to remove the inheritance tax in its entirety in 2014 and this will remove a tax that many Norwegian business owners have wanted to get rid of. At the same time, a general rule is introduced that beneficiaries take over the tax base of the heir. It is necessary to achieve good coherence and non-discrimination in the tax system. At the same time, some exemptions are also proposed for dwellings, recreational dwellings and common farms or forestry that could have been sold tax-free on inheritance/donor-free. In addition, an important tax relief for all taxpayers should not be undermined by the fact that a few groups lose their special advantages within the current system. Finally, the Progress Party is very concerned about the well-being of pensioners, and it is therefore satisfactory that the pensioners as a group in this proposal for the 2014 tax package will receive nearly 500 million. kr in reliefs. The reliefs in taxes on wealth are particularly important for this group, as many pensioners have paid off house loans and they have net assets in the form of deposits and securities. The tax regime for 2014 provides tax relief for pensioners who received tax increases in the 2011 conversion and the minimum pensioners are and will remain fully shielded from tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2705	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2708	The representative Limi stressed that there is now a new direction, and I agree with the heart. But I have to say here, as I have said quite many times, that this is moving towards increasing differences, and we have also received that in writing from the Ministry of Finance. Those with over 2 million. In income, kr will be given approx. 40,000 kroner in tax dollars. 1/100th of that gets those who make around 400,000 dollars. Then there's talk of tax relief to the broad groups. Previously, we've heard about tax cuts for most people – we've heard it quite many times from the Progress Party. I think I'm going to end up asking, who is the Progress Party defining as the "people most"?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2713	‘Most of the population’ is the broad group of the population, and in fact it is a large majority of Norwegian employees who receive tax relief from the government’s scheme for 2014. So about half of the income is between 350,000 and up to 1 million. NOK, and then you can expect a tax bill that will be from plus/minus NOK 1500 and up to over NOK 4000 per year, depending on the property situation. I think that is a good start to a sensible tax arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2718	What the representative Limi defines as individual groups is more than 200,000 people who are self-employed today. I don't think there is any special group, there are many of the people who have new ideas and better solutions, and dare to start their own work instead of looking for a regular job. They're taking extra risks. The most amazing thing about the inheritance tax change is that you have not figured out the consequences of it. Then my question to the Progress Party is: why does the Progress Party only want to investigate the consequences for the one group that is affected by it, farmers, and not for all the other self-employed workers who are also affected by that change? Is it possible for the Progress Party to guarantee that, in sum, business will be able to make a positive outcome, or can you not guarantee it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2725	There are very many self-employed people who have organized themselves in a form other than an unincorporated enterprise. For them, this change will not mean any change, rather, on the contrary, it will mean an advantage of dropping the inheritance tax on a generation change. What is the situation for agriculture is that they have been granted an exception. They are allowed to write down the value of agricultural property up to 3⁄4 of the market value. Already there is an exception. The reason why we have to make a more thorough review of agriculture is because they have so many special advantages and so many tax advantages that we have to see this in its entirety. There is agriculture in a special position. I'm not saying this with a negative sign, but that's why it's so extensive. There you have to take a complete review.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2732	On the initiative of the Left, the Left, the Right, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party will launch a joint proposal in February 2008 to introduce tax exemptions for the research institute that accepts basic government concessions. In today's setting, however, the Left remains alone to propose the same as we had before the election, and has been agreed since 2008. So new batch, new try: I hope the representative Limi can confirm that this comes from a combination of button frames and deadlines, and that the Progress Party once again helps to form multiple numbers for this at the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2737	What I can confirm is that we have agreed to promote this proposal earlier, and there is no reason why we cannot look at the proposal again. It has not been part of the negotiation of a cooperation agreement or a government declaration, as it was blacked out earlier today, but it has not been said that we cannot include it in the process starting with the 2015 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2743	I notice that both the Right Party and the Advance Party in order to get their own tax making to make sense, have to define "most people" as people who earn up to the million. I don't think I agree with that definition. Most people don't make that much. But leave it alone – I share the concern of the representative, Limi, for the most part, and the concern of the representative, Limi, for the bipartition of the economy. Therefore, I wonder how the Progress Party might think it would be a good idea to increase the use of oil money in order to provide tax credits that do not go mainly to people with normal incomes. What effect does the representative Limi think the increased use of oil money can have on the mainland economy and on the ever-increasing doubling of the economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2748	First of all, I just want to make it clear that I didn't say that most people make up 1 million. kr. I said half of the employees have an income of between 350 000 kroner and 1 million. NOK, and there is something else. I'm very concerned about the two-part division of the Norwegian economy. I don't think it changes significantly by using at the base of 4 billion. kr more over the State budget. That's not the main problem. The main problem is that we have pursued an economic policy that has helped us to have too low growth in view of the positive development of the mainland economy, not least because the industry does not dare to invest. That's exactly what we're trying to do through the tax system promoted for 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2755	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2758	We had an extensive debate on the whole financial situation, so I'm going to try not to repeat myself too much. However, with regard to taxes and taxes, we aim to minimise the burden on value creation. It shall contribute to increased employment, it shall enhance volunteering and saving, and contribute to achieving important objectives of distribution, environment and public health. In order to take this by distribution, which the representative Marthinsen too was in: Yes, we want a society where there are not too many differences. But when you hear the debate, you get the impression that the most important thing is not to raise groups, the most important thing is that differences are reduced. In other words, it'll be the main goal, not to raise groups that really need it. Then – I think – you don't have the right balance in how you think about the tax system. The most important thing for us is that we raise groups that need it, although we believe that this by not being too big, absolute is a good in itself. But it also has to be balanced against the other. We have a budget agreement behind us. One of the proposals on which both governments wanted to move forward was to remove tax class 2. There's going to be a change in the agreement that we've entered into, where tax class 2 still exists. I get to say it, it's said that the argument -- I know this is falling a bit heavy on the chest -- that's in Prop. 1 LS from 2013 to 2014 around class 2, is unpleasant, in my opinion. Then you adapt to the degrees of reasoning based on the exact objectives you have, for example. Which groups – where both are immigrants, where one is a immigrant – and so continues the whole argument related to exactly tax class 2. I think you should think about it before you adapt the argument in the future then to the degrees that you've done right here. Otherwise, we are also pleased that there is another green tax change in this agreement we have concluded. It also promises well for the green tax commission that we are going to get, which means that we can actually operationalise the objectives of the climate agreement. Because that's what's been the problem for now; we've had goals, but we haven't had enough plans to achieve the goals. In the voluntary sector, we are very pleased to increase the tax deduction for gifts to non-governmental organisations by around 40 pst. This means, in reality, that non-governmental organisations receive more money that they freely dispose of, which must not be on application for projects A, B or C. It also strengthens democracy if we are to use such big words. Then the representative Marthinsen was also in the field of country-by-country reporting. I am very pleased with the agreement we have reached that tax adjustment should be included in the target, and we look forward very much to how the work should now be carried on from the government to make this an operational instrument. I can assure you that there is something we are going to follow closely, so that the objective of this strengthening of country-by-country reporting is actually achieved. With that, we are satisfied with most of what we've been through in the agreement. There is always something you would like to hear even more about, but there are new opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2775	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2778	The representative Syversen was also fiscal spokesman for the Christian People's Party last year, and he presented an alternative budget in which the Christian People's Party criticized the red-green government for a too weak distribution profile. The Christian People's Party proposed to introduce another step into the top tax – a third step in the top tax – because it wanted to have a clearer and clearer distribution profile. That's why it's a little weird to hear the representative Syversen now, who criticizes us in the red-green parts because we're concerned about the distribution profile in the tax system, when it was one of the main points last year. Why does the representative Syversen have a different view this year than last year? And why was a third step in the top tax a good proposal last year, but not this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2785	I kept saying that it's because I've become a year wiser, but of course I shouldn't say that, because it's probably used against me. I think I'm going to say that what we've come up with here is a whole out of four parties. I still think the proposal we had last year is good. It would not – I think – hit the will to work, while having a clear distributional profile. I would also say, as I actually said in the budget debate last year, that the most important thing for us is not to fight the rich, if anyone would believe it. The most important thing for us is actually to raise those who are the poorest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2792	They're a little intrigued, asked by me tonight: I'm once again referring to the same joint proposal from the Left, the Right, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party from February 2008 to introduce tax exemptions for the research institute that accepts basic government concessions. I make it short: I hope that the representative Syversen and the Christian People's Party will once again be able to contribute to the formation of multiple numbers for this at the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2799	I have at least – I think – now realized that this is an important point for the Left, and that we can assume that there is something we are going to hear more about the coming year. I think that both the representative Meling and the representative Limi responded well to that, and we look forward to discussing that very point very carefully – I would assume – with the representative Breivik on the next occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2804	Like the representative Syversen, I am very pleased with the consensus in Stortingen and, like the Christian People's Party and the Left, I deserve tribute for strengthening the profile of the country-by-country reporting. However, the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre promote two proposals that go further and take on an equally important input from civil society and organisations, and that is that the legislation must also include countries with support functions, i.e. tax havens. I would therefore like to know whether the Christian People's Party will vote in favour of these proposals, in line with the wishes of a broad civil society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2809	I think the representative Serigstad Valen looks at the setting how we're going to vote, but I can say as much as I have absolute sympathy for the proposal. At the same time, I would assume that when tax adjustment comes in as part of the objective, one must also consider how tax evasion often happens, and it will often happen precisely to tax havens. In this I assume that – at least indirectly – it becomes part of what the government now has to work on. But I can say it so that I don't think we're done with exactly this part of the country-by-country reporting. I also believe that internationally – not least after the financial crisis – a very large number of countries have become interested in a completely different way of seeing where capital goes and where it disappears, literally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2815	I very much agree with the representative of the Seven in how important it is to raise groups that really need it. The Christian People's Party and the Workers' Party have many common thoughts about the social profile of the tax system. I hope the representative agrees. As one of the few Western countries, we in Norway have managed to reduce income differences between people, but the new government is turning the price against increased differences — confirmed by the Ministry of Finance — and 40 pst. The tax goes to the approximately 4 pst. with the highest income. The vast majority of people get crumbs. Will the Christian People's Party participate in several conciliations that have an unsocial profile, or will they – if this turns out to be just the first step on the road towards even greater differences – be involved and put down the foot here in the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2824	Thank you for your confidence in the party as such and what we are concerned about. The representative Hagebaken is very right about that. But as I said, let's not get completely fixed on the question of who makes what, and who is taxed for what. Maybe the most important thing is to raise the groups that need it the most. Then I expect that it is also a paradox for the representative of Hagebakken that under the previous government there were several poor children. You have to weigh this up to each other. What is it that together creates a growth capacity in the economy that allows us to raise those that are weaker? But I agree that it is an independent value that the differences are not too large, because it also has to do with a social contract, in my opinion. This is to be balanced, and I can assure you that it is the Christian People's Party engaged in.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2831	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2834	Today, the Storting adopts a tax regime that contributes to increasing differences. The government has deliberately chosen to give tax cuts to those with high incomes instead of those with low incomes. Those who have less than and about 150 000 kroner in income get 300 kroner in tax cuts, while they have 2 million dollars. kr in income receives NOK 39 000. We in the Centre Party believe that some of the success in Norway is that we have used many different instruments, including: Our tax system, over time to balance differences and get a society where we're equivalent also financially. Another success in Norwegian society has been that we have wanted to have a good geographical distribution — to take full use of Norway — and that we have used active instruments to achieve it. The financial debate made it clear, and the decisions showed that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left weakened all the tools in the toolbox to pursue an active industrial policy, and that there is less money for it in fisheries, agriculture and forestry. The tools for those with new ideas and better solutions were cut by cutting regional development funds and innovation in Norway. All the economic instruments have been systematically weakened, so that next year we will be able to pursue a less active industrial policy in Norway than this year, and there is no active industrial policy to get businesses around the country because the main priority was tax-free and increased oil money use. It should then be believed that when you came to the tax debate today — tax debate number two — you would find a targeted and active industrial policy, and that there would be new targeted measures to strengthen the Norwegian competitiveness of our business. But the most important thing for business in this tax system is that the red-green government put in to reduce corporation tax from 28 to 27 pst. It was the red-green government that prioritised, while when we see the tax grips of the government of Solberg – and we see it from the budgetary agreement – it is then completely free of tax measures that affect business. Let's take the inheritance fee first. With all kinds of trombones, you have been very proud that you have removed the inheritance fee. But then they forgot to investigate the impact on business first. I think it's a way of treating individuals' businesses that's very strange. You haven't looked at the consequences for them, for example. have invested in commercial property, which is intended to transfer it to its children, how it affects them, and the consequences for those who have started a slaughterhouse or a joinery shop – and all other small enterprises around Norway. Although I am happy about agriculture and I am a former Minister of Agriculture, I also find it strange that the only group to determine the consequences are farmers. I don't understand. Why doesn't one have to figure out the consequences for everyone? Why are only the farmers going to get their own investigation? Why can not all other individual enterprises also have an investigation? I hope that in the course of today's debate the Minister of Finance will make it clear that groups other than agriculture should also be looked at. In the discussion of the financial debate, Siv Jensen replied that the first proposal gave approximately. $800 million. kr i tax relief for traders. But with the tax increases that came into the budget agreement, at diesel prices and electricity charges, they were zeroed out, and the consequences for inheritance fees are not known. Then there's another thing that I think is critical of the tax arrangement. The government has notified tax measures that are not implemented. We're going to see a reduction in an increase next year, and it's very regrettable that the Sundvolden Declaration says you should implement the grip, and then you don't choose to do it. Tax measures that change behaviour should not be notified and should not be implemented. What happens then is that those who have invested in business, those who plan to invest in their home, are put in a huge squeeze because things are put on hold. That is the responsibility of the Right Party and the Progressive Party, which are alerting to changes but which do not have the capacity to implement. Finally, the Central Party believes that there is time to pursue an active policy of balancing differences. It's been a success for our country. The centre party thinks it's time to pursue an active business policy, so we can use the resources around the country. This budget does not respond to the challenges, and we are sorry for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2857	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2860	With so much criticism for the removal of the inheritance fee, it is tempting to ask the representative: Will the Central Party go to the elections to reintroduce the inheritance fee in a few years' time? In addition, there are some features of the way the Senter party has rigged in this tax proposal, which I think is a little strange. They have a lot to do with the Arbeiderpartiet and SV, but in some areas they stick out for themselves, among other things. as regards the proposed increase in the base charge for mineral oil. It's part of a green tax conversion. My question to Schlagsvold Vedum is: why does the Centre not support this green tax conversion? And if the Center Party was concerned about a target group, why did they, along with Stoltenberg II, go into this budget to increase the CO2 tax, which also affects the exact same thing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2872	First to the inheritance fee: it is very important when making tax changes, that you have two thoughts in your head at once. It had the government, and it had removed the possibility of rewriting values by removing the principle of discontinuity. But when you remove it, you have to think about the consequences. This has not been done by the Right and Advance Party. We also increased the discount on the inheritance tax, because we saw that there were bad results, but we continued, and we maintained the principle of discontinuity, which allows us to write values on, for example. commercial property. I believe it is critical of the Right that they do not get involved in the consequences of their own proposals, and that very many entrepreneurs next year will get more and no less tax, when they have sold it as a victory for the business around in Norway. No one is in favour of a fee in principle, but when it is to be removed, you must at least know why you remove it and what its consequences are. With regard to our resistance to increasing the taxes on diesel, it is because we do not want to have higher taxes, because it gives extra costs for, among other things. the construction industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2883	Earlier today, during the various debates, there has been a great deal of evidence of electoral violations. I didn't hear much about it in the post of Battle Violence Vedum now. It might be tricked, for in the Inner East. 4 L proposes to the government an increase of BSU from 150 000 kroner to 200000 kroner. If I read the Central Party Party program, they suggest the exact same thing in the program. But if I read the comments, then the Center Party is going to go against this increase that the government is proposing. Can we imagine a little lifting break here?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2892	The tax arrangement is an overall arrangement, and when we negotiated the tax arrangement in the Stoltenberg II government, the red-green government, we had to weigh different types of interests against each other. Then we thought that this year there was no room to increase the BSU. The center party's goal during the period has been to increase it. But we thought, unlike the Progress Party, that it was unwise, for example. to increase the fees for those working in the construction industry, while the Progress Party thought it was wise. You do different priorities, and this year we thought we didn't have room for the BSU increase. But we aim to support that kind of change during the period, if we find room for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2899	We go back to the ordinary list of speakers – no, a representative has emerged. The battle force of Vedum will be allowed to stand here a little longer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2902	I think the representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, was far too cheap. My question relates to another issue of taxation where we have agreed, namely the importance of giving tax credits to non-governmental organisations. I respect that you went out of a government, etc., and that this is the budget you're dealing with. In the future, the Centre Party could be regarded as an ally in strengthening the voluntary sector, among other things. by raising the tax credit for gifts given to non-governmental organisations?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2912	The introduction of the tax credit scheme for gifts to non-governmental organisations was something the Center Party and the Christian People's Party came together in their time. It's been a successful arrangement, it's been a good arrangement. When we were to give priority to the budget for this year, many thought that the most important priority – a clear priority we had for the voluntary sector – was the VAT compensation scheme. We thought it was important to co-finance it, because we had promised. It was announced a stepping-up plan, and therefore it was our main priority. And it's going to benefit everyone, regardless of whether there's anyone who has the opportunity to give a gift or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2919	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2922	The 2014 tax and tax package will be treated on the basis of slightly different provisions than normal. The usual thing is that we first deal with the tax and tax arrangements and then the financial situation itself. This year, we have done so in reverse order, which means that the framework decisions taken for Frame 21 set limits on what proposals can be made in the two options we are discussing today. The left does not make all the proposals in its alternative government budget, but only proposals that do not have revenue effect for 2014 in the Innst. 4 L, and some suggestions within a proven neutral frame of the Innst. 3 S. The left's overriding objective in fiscal policy is a green tax shift, where the tax system is actively used to stimulate jobs and jobs, development, investment and ownership in Norwegian enterprises and to promote environmentally friendly behaviour. In concrete terms, it means lower taxes on labour, ownership and activities, tax incentives to make environmentally friendly choices and to reinforce environmental taxes. Taxes and taxes are an important policy tool for controlling behaviour, a tool that has been used far too little in the last eight years. In this way, the left has high expectations of the new government and looks particularly forward to the work to be done through a new green tax commission – in line with the thinking of the Left. In its 2014 alternative state budget, the Left proposed a red to green tax conversion of about 7.5 billion. kr. We also proposed changes and a change in the tax system of a further 2.5 billion. kr. In addition to a marked green tax shift, the Left proposed two clear approaches to fiscal policy. One is the conversion of the minimum deduction, the person deduction, the top tax and the social security contributions. The conversion has three main objectives. Firstly, it provides a more smoothing effect; secondly, it helps to improve the underfunding of the population. In addition, it stimulates more work and thus greater tax revenue. The second main approach is the conversion, renewal and simplification of the VAT system. In concrete terms, the Left proposes exempting organic products, fruit and vegetables from VAT. This means a strong stimulus to a healthier diet and a more environmentally friendly agriculture. Furthermore, this change results in a reduction in the rate of food consumption and a reduction in the general rate of VAT by one percentage point, to 24 pst. A tax base for individuals, organisations and non-VAT-registered enterprises will amount to about 1.5 billion. kr. The left is very concerned about the best way to facilitate self-employed and individuals. We therefore propose a number of improvements for self-employed people in the alternative budget, including: an introduction of an own minimum deduction of SEK 75 000, a capital finding scheme to ensure risk capital for entrepreneurs and start-up enterprises, a Swedish model fund scheme, a change in the pre-tax payment procedures and an increase in the maximum savings amount of the OTP for individuals to 6 pst. Together, these proposals lead to a much simpler everyday life for individuals, not least because they come in combination with other proposals in their alternative budget, such as better social rights and the reintroduction of aid for unprofitable research efforts. We don't get multiple numbers for this time, but we're going to work actively in the forthcoming budget negotiations to get it done. Let me also add that the new government has proposed many changes to the tax system to which the Left belongs. This applies, for example: the liquidation of the inheritance fees and the strengthening of the BSU and the FUNN. The left is also fundamentally in agreement with the government to draw the very bureaucratic and poorly secure proposal of the government of Stoltenberg II to introduce the housing profit tax part-time model. Finally, I refer to the Left's suggestions in the settings that we now have for handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2956	The representative of Terje Breivik has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2961	The representative Breivik spoke extensively about the environment in his post, and that charges can control behavior. But I find it difficult to see the clear green profile in the budget that the Left is finally behind today. I think it is clear that our budget has a clearer and better environmental profile than what the Left has achieved with the Progress Party and the Right. I would like to challenge the representative specifically on the car fee, as it is taxes and charges we are discussing today. The red-green government has year after year turned the car tax in a more environmentally friendly direction. As a result, emissions from new cars today are about 30 pst. lower than in 2006. Our draft budget for 2014 would continue this process. The left vote today against the red-green proposal to make the more polluting cars more expensive. What does the representative think about the government choosing to reverse the climate change proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2970	I'm going to give the replicator and the Labour Party a boost because they contributed to their redundancy budget to give it a hint of a green tax change profile. However, there is no doubt that the agreement that the Left now supports in this room — both last week and today — has a significantly stronger green tax profile. In relation to the rest of the environmental effort, it is enough to remind the representative that the agreement contains a stake on the railway, on a collective basis, at a completely different level than that to which it was posted from the Labour Party and the rest of the red-green parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2975	I'm a little thin, so now I want a clear answer from the representative of Breivik. Can we assume that on the first and best occasion, the Left will be in favour of a general exemption for private research institutes?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2980	The left can at least guarantee the representative Syversen that this is going to be heard from my mouth the next time we meet in formal matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2985	First of all, I would like to say that it is very gratifying that today the Left will vote for sensible and good customs duties on Norwegian agricultural products – we are pleased about that – together with the Progress Party, the Right and everyone else here in the House. But my line is about the Left's desire to weaken the commuting allowance. The left is a district party and has many voters also in District Norway. How can you believe that there is a climate gain in punishing those who travel far to go to work? What is the objective of taxing commuters harder?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2992	The representative Schlagsvold Vedum goes into the classic trap where he draws a piece out of a total green tax change. This is a must to see in context. If you go in and see, it's both in the budget agreement and not least in the Left's alternative budget, and I've now presented the tax bill, a collection of tax provisions that together lead to a tax bill of well over 4 billion. which will benefit both individuals and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e2997	Left often puts up a rhetoric where you talk about changes from red to green tax. It probably sounds good, especially for the Left picker. But in the same post as the representative Breivik used the term red and green tax, he later talked about a tax trap he thought had a positive distribution effect. So my short question is simply: does the Left agree that the tax system is also an important distribution mechanism?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3003	Yes, of course. If the representative Serigstad Valen goes into page 13, I believe, in the document we are currently handling, he sees a comprehensive overview of his tax and tax arrangements, which lead to the highest tax rate for those with the lowest income in particular, and especially for those with incomes from NOK 200000 and downwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3008	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3011	In this debate, there has been some talk of income differences — that is good — but there have also been some misunderstandings. Both the Christian People's Party and the Right have spoken as if the goal of talking about distribution is to punish someone or take something from someone. But what both I and the representative Marthinen of the Workers' Party have tried to raise is the debate on income differences, how much you have to live for. In this context, it is worth mentioning that both the SV and the Workers' Party are in favour of a scheme that gives greater tax relief to those who have at least, including those who are in work, but also those who are in social security, than the Right and Advance Party does. Seeking small differences is not about punishing the rich or being more concerned about taking something from someone at the top, as the representative Syversen put it. For example, this is a case in point. on trust. In recent days, there has been an important debate on trust in this country. Trust is high in Norway. The evening post had an informal wallet survey, where they released 20 wallets in Oslo and found out that 15 were returned. It's just a small and informal example of something for which there is also good professional evidence: society with small differences and where everyone contributes according to ability, are also societies where trust between people is higher and trust in institutions is higher, with all the good that it brings. I believe there is one of the finest things about our country – from the fact that I can ask the assistant to take care of my affairs when I'm at the café and go away for a few minutes, so that it was not raided and looted in the Oslo center in the chaotic hours after the bomb explosion on July 22nd. This is not because we nordics are better people than other people. It's because we've built a system that builds trust and thus strengthens trust. Trust is a renewable resource. If you trust, you'll get your trust back. If you show a lack of trust, you can expect a lack of trust back. So it is not surprising that confidence fell in countries like Sweden and Finland in the 1990s during major difficulties and economic changes, and that confidence among people is much lower in those countries that are now experiencing major economic and social problems in Europe. Norwegian trust is a value and a good that needs to be managed sensibly. It assumes that we have an understanding of why our society is built up as it is. The fact that we have taxes on wealth in Norway is, for example: not because there is any desire to punish the rich, as the Prime Minister suggested during the debate on the throne. It's because it's a good thing for everyone to see that everyone contributes by ability. When most people see that even the richest have to contribute to the community, the will to contribute itself increases. And by contributing themselves, enough people in Norway rightly have a sense of contributing to something greater than themselves. Our tax system is not just for financing the public sector or governing behaviour, but for ensuring equal opportunities for equalizing differences. I believe that the tax policy now gets a majority in the UK, over time will weaken this confidence in Norway, firstly because it facilitates a development in which the economic differences in Norway will increase for the first time in eight years in 2014. Norway wants to follow the European trend we have been able to avoid being part of for many years with a policy that favours those who serve the most. Secondly, it is because politics is not based on empirical, not facts, not documented effects, but rhetoric. It is only rhetoric to claim that cuts in property taxes and removal of the inheritance tax have a positive impact on the economy. It's just rhetoric to claim that most people get more to walk with when ordinary income gets a tax relief of less than a penny a day, and SV and the Workers' Party increase the bottomline of wages and social security more than the government does. It's just rhetoric to claim that the tax havens give people better advice when they're financed by things that cut in child's care, increase the maximum price of kindergartens and a number of other cuts, which hit ordinary people the most. It's a rhetoric I think many people will gradually see through. The problem is that in the meantime, billions of billions of people will have been moved from ordinary people's wallets to the same rich elite who vote most on the Right and Advance Party. There's a kind of spread of power Right never talks about, spreading economic power. It is at the heart of why distribution of income and wealth is important — it is spreading real power and giving real opportunities to people most.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3030	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3033	It was interesting to hear the representative Serigstad Valen talk about trust. We are also concerned on the right with trust and the spread of power. But I think it's a little special to hear a representative from SV who has himself helped to reduce the property tax and reduce the inheritance tax, all of a sudden now criticise the changes that this government is making, and draw it so far as to say that this tax policy will weaken confidence in Norway. What is it that suddenly makes this policy wrong, which SV itself has actually backed up by the cooperation SV has had with the Workers' Party and the Center Party of the Red-Green Government, which has just reduced the property tax and reduced the inheritance tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3038	Here I think the representative Meling is at the heart of the matter without being completely aware of it himself. For the SV, the Labour Party and the Center Party did over eight years in government, is the opposite of the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. We dramatically increased the net asset tax, so ordinary small savers and the elderly didn't pay, but we collected much more at the top, just so that the differences went down. The measures we have taken with the taxes on wealth are one of the most important factors that have led to a decline in differences in Norway. What the Right Party and the Advance Party are doing is making flat changes in the tax system, which favors those who have the most, the most. That's the opposite of what the red-green government had. We red-green parties – SV, the Workers' Party and the Center Party – regard taxes as a political instrument. That's why there's no problem for us to give taxes one place, but then we're increasing somewhere else to make sure that money finds the way to those who have less, and not those who have the most, as the right side does.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3045	The representative Serigstad Valen now stated in his post that it is only rhetoric that cut tax has a positive effect. Now it's not that many years since it was SV that had the finance minister in Norway, and then I sent a question about dynamic tax effects and showed that in NOW 1997:27 it was established that it costs society 20 dollars to finance a krona. I asked Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen if she agreed. She then replied that fiscal finance ‘contains a loss of socio-economic efficiency’, and further: ‘At the discretion of the Ministry of Finance, no new information has been received indicating any specific changes in this assessment.’;» Then the question is, when former Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen said that there was a 20-dollar ‘loss of socio-economic efficiency’ in order to finance a krone, was there only rhetoric from the former Minister of Finance?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3060	Yes, in many cases it gives effect whether you increase or lower a tax. One example, as the representative Marthinsen also mentioned earlier, was that we lowered the corporate tax and increased the oil tax earlier this year, among other things. to move capital from the socket to the mainland economy. That's good. I did not talk about taxes in general, but specifically – and it is also in my script – about removing the inheritance tax and cutting the wealth tax. We all know that cutting taxes on wealth has almost no effect on the economy. Removing the inheritance fee has absolutely no dynamic effect, and I am not the one who claims. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen wrote it in the form of a letter to the Stortinget. So this line should rather be reserved for the Minister of Finance, who is making contributions to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3067	I also want to grasp this with confidence. Since the representative Serigstad Valen also mentioned July 22 in the same context, I think it obliges us all here to look closely at how there has become a failure of confidence between large sections of the population and some of the systems we have jointly had, and should change to ensure that we can safeguard the security of our own people. Without becoming a party political party, I think that trust aspect has quite a large area, which we, as a community in this Chamber, should take for granted. But the question is about the property tax and the inheritance tax. Those in the position to pay taxes on wealth have now become small savers, in the opinion of the representative Serigstad Valen. Does this mean that we have now reached the ceiling on proposals to reduce taxes on wealth and inheritance, from the SV side?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3074	First of all, I agree entirely with the representative of Syversen that we have great trust challenges in Norway as well. I think, for example, that all the target management systems, New Public Management and the way in which large parts of the health sector have been organised are characterised by a lack of trust and create both poorer quality of the services we provide to the population and less trust between people and systems. I fully agree with that. When it comes to the question, I guess the simple answer is yes. I don't think you can continue to increase the bottom line of wealth taxes into eternity. I think it makes sense to increase what we've done. That means that hundreds of thousands less pay taxes on wealth. But we collect the same amount of money anyway, because it's increased at the top, and the rich under the red-green paid a lot more than they did before. With regard to the inheritance fee, I am totally opposed to removing it. The inheritance tax is a very important policy tool for achieving economic cohesion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3084	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3087	First, I would like to thank the Finance Committee for its goodwill in its work with the Greens' Alternative State Budget. We're not in the finance committee, but we've been asked questions to the ministry, in line with the members of the committee, and it's been very important to us and to the voters we represent. So it's approaching Christmas. The Christmas gifts glitter, lute fish are served in the biggest restaurant, and Christmas is a time when we're going to stop up and know what really matters to us. According to those who are researching happiness, there is little doubt as to what matters to us. It's like time and good times with family and friends etc. At the same time, the pre-Christmas season has become the feast of consumption. While we're struggling with the budget in here, the question on everyone else's lips is, what do you want for Christmas? The most common answers to that question, according to a recent Oslo survey, are: Do not know – nothing. For eight years, we've had a government that made the feast of time. Now we've got a new government that will solve the problems the previous government didn't solve, using even more growth and consumption. This is an unsolvable and short-term policy that denies the knowledge we have about both the earth's and nature's resilience and about what actually has value for humans. The Environmental Party The Greens' Alternative State Budget for 2014 is a budget for the transition to a sustainable welfare society. We'll do it, for example. by initiating a normalisation of both consumption and distribution of the current costs of the welfare country. More of this will have to be financed gradually through taxes and taxes, while more of the remaining oil revenues and returns will have to be reserved for the development of tomorrow's society. In our alternative budget, we propose inter alia: three grips, first of all: the start of a green tax conversion, which will make it easier for ordinary people to live and work green. We are proposing tax deductions for owner-occupied dwellings as early as 1 January 2014, and we are proposing to increase the electricity charge by 10 øre per kWh to stimulate energy saving. We propose to remove VAT on organic food, fruit and vegetables and cut VAT on reuse and repairs, which we finance, among other things. to increase the sugar levy in part. We take seriously the Storting's objective of phasing out oil firing and increase the base rate of fuel oil by 50 cents in addition to the bourgeois proposal. And we want to increase the conversion of the car park and make it happen faster. So we support the government's proposal for VAT exemptions on the leasing of electric cars and batteries. Another approach is a fairer distribution of private taxation, which must, of course, finance a larger part of the welfare state of the future. We protect the lowest income by a sharp increase in the minimum deduction of income tax, and we introduce a new step in the top tax on income over 1 million. kr. This will mark the low incomes well, and the high incomes will notice relatively little about it. A slightly more progressive private taxation will at the same time contribute to the cooling down of growth in the most unnecessary consumption. In parallel with these measures, we propose inter alia: the right to a minimum deduction for self-employed persons as one of many contributions to new business development. A third grip is changes in petroleum taxation. If we want a reasonable opportunity to keep global warming below two degrees, as we know, between half and two and three quarters of the world's known fossil reserves must remain on the ground. This also applies to Norway. In this case, there is a poor use of Community funds to subsidise new exploration activities and to provide special treatment for initial investment in the oil industry. The Green Party therefore proposes to wind up the reimbursement of exploration costs and subsidies through the release of petroleum investments. The CO2 tax on the cap must be up to NOK 1000 tonnes, and the special tax on the oil industry is proposed to be increased. In the last few days’ debate on the State budget, all parties expressed concern about the two-way division of the Norwegian economy. It is a step forward – at least in recognition. Several measures have also been announced, which are good signals. However, in general, both the previous government and the current government continue to increase the division of the economy through large efforts and investment in the oil industry. The Environment Party The Greens' alternative budget is a budget to reduce this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3111	No one's ever asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3114	It is a key objective of the government's economic policy to strengthen the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. The tax system is essential for the efficiency of society’s resources. The government will reduce the overall level of taxation and priority relief that can contribute to growth and future well-being. The company tax is ranked by the OECD as the most harmful to economic growth, followed by taxes on personal income. Reducing these taxes, as the government parties, the Left and the Christian People's Party agree, is therefore good for the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. The budget agreement means that total taxes and taxes are reduced by a good 7 billion. kr in 2014. These reliefs will give greater freedom to individuals, families, are good for business, Norwegian ownership, workplaces and well-being. The general income tax rate is reduced to 27 p.m. not only for companies but also for employees. The tax on wealth is reduced by reducing the rate and increasing the base rate and removing the inheritance tax. We protect tax revenue from tax planning by limiting the deduction of interest on debt between related companies. Lower tax rates on general income and wealth will stimulate employment, saving and investment. They will have dynamic effects in the economy. We get back some of the tax relief because higher growth gives higher tax input. Between 10 and 30 pst. of those tax reliefs, it is estimated that over time, the path is being traced back as increased revenue for the public sector. In the light of international developments, we must expect changes in company taxation beyond what the government is now implementing. The Scheel Committee shall investigate this. The original mandate of the sample provided that the proposals were to be provenon-neutral. I have asked the sample to consider overall proposals that provide net relief. The opposition tends to set up growth-enhancing tax reliefs against distribution and well-being. I think it's too sloppy. Wide tax reductions that stimulate saving, investment and work have a positive impact on the Norwegian economy and on households. The main strategy to prevent low income over time is to ensure high employment and robust financing of welfare goods. The inheritance fee is an unfair and unnecessary tax, which gives relatively little proceeds. It affects family-run businesses, but also, to the most extent, ordinary people who inherit their parents. Many adapt to the inheritance fee. It is therefore strikingly distorted. The removal of the inheritance tax is therefore wise to ensure that ordinary people respect the tax policy in Norway. Some attention has been paid to the fact that the changes in income tax resulting from the removal of the inheritance tax may be a disadvantage to farmers. The results for farmers must be seen in the context of the fact that we initially have many favourable tax rules for agriculture. Some of these favourable rules are of less importance when the inheritance tax is abolished. The Government will come back to this in the context of the revised national budget for 2014. Tax relief is not something that politicians give, but it's people and corporations' own money we don't want to take. There is consensus in this room about a tax-funded welfare society in which all contribute to the community. At the same time, as politicians, we are obliged to manage other people's money in the best possible way. Therefore, we need to have a strong focus on efficiency, simplification and red tape. This government is working on these questions every day. It is a very solid tax arrangement for 2014 that the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left have agreed on. This promises good for future cooperation. The government will further reduce the overall level of taxation and give priority to growth-promoting tax incentives. It will, together with other government measures to improve the framework conditions for business, contribute to employment, jobs and necessary tax revenues. Work and sound public finances are essential for good distribution and future well-being for all. The government will do the right priorities that give people the answers to the challenges they face in everyday life. We give priority to health, knowledge, transportation and the police rather than a little bit more to everything. This government will create Norway for the future. Then we must facilitate growth, well-being and freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3135	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3138	This opposition life involves a conversion for many of us, and one of them is a great need to keep asking written questions. The government's own department responds to a budgetary question from the Workers' Party's financial fraction that the government's tax cuts are distributed in such a way that nine out of ten dollars go to private individuals, while one out of ten dollars goes to businesses. My question is brief and correct: does the Council of State think this is a reasonable distribution of tax cuts, and can we also expect in the future that this is how the distribution is going to be – i.e. nine dollars for individuals and one in ten for businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3145	The few, but important steps taken by the government in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party in connection with next year's government budget, provide relief to broad groups in society. They also provide important relief to business, which should be stimulated to create more value creation in Norway. Then we need to enable them to create more jobs, and we need to secure the opportunities to invest more. Therefore, this government has both prioritised relief to businesses and relief to households. There are measures that the government will continue to take, but the mechanism and level of future relief will, of course, come back to the future government budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3150	I heard with interest at the Council of State's posts, where she thought it was hard to be involved in the distribution of the tax system. I believe that she completely underestimates the fact that distribution itself seems stimulating to the economy – but leave it alone. The Council of State's own budget proposal states that the tax cuts are very unevenly distributed. About 40 pst. The cut goes to the approximately 4 pst. which have the highest incomes, while with normal low incomes and low wealth they receive about 50 ears a day. From the previous question, we know that nine out of ten dollars given in tax cuts goes to private individuals. Now we've seen how the tax cuts divide between people. Is there a deliberate choice, or is there chance, that this government's very first tax and tax system then until those degrees are about enriching a very small proportion of mediated individuals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3161	I believe the claim of the representative Marthinsen is simply crazy. So if you go in and look at the effects of the tax reliefs to the government, they make it easier for a wide range of people. I want to remind you that half of the population has revenues between 350,000 and 1 million. kr. These receive half of the total relief in terms of personal taxation. These are also groups that have received very little relief from the previous government. I have heard the rhetoric that has come from the red-green parties in this debate, where one creates an impression – I actually have some problems understanding whether the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV have now become too tax reliefs, or whether they are still too high tax incentives. I find it very difficult to see, because on the one hand you are happy that you are now taking a new grip on the inheritance fee, and then you are concerned that you are not giving new relief at the other end. I have some problems following the rhetoric, but it is possible that I will become wiser later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3168	I would like to ask a slightly more general question about how the Minister of Finance views the tax system as such and why we have taxes. Of course, it's a bad thing, but sometimes it can be a good thing. Sees the Council of State collecting tax only to meet fiscal needs, or is it also a means, for example. for distribution and promotion of behaviour, e.g.: in the field of environment and health — or to promote volunteering? How do the government councils view this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3175	These were very many questions. I don't know if I can answer everyone. Let me start by saying that I think there is a broad political consensus that we should have basic tax-funded welfare schemes in Norway. That is why we must also have a robust tax system with a broad tax base. I noticed that in articles, among others. from the Workers' Party, the broad tax base was considered to have, after all, relatively curative levels. Well, Norway is after Denmark in the OECD region with the highest tax burden. The ambition must be broad tax rates, but lower, so that we can stimulate more growth and value creation in the economy. And of course, it's quite right that we can stimulate behavioral changes through different charges and in other ways, but then we have to be very concerned that we're making the right decision. That's why it's important for this government to go through many of the charges that exist today, to see if they hit the target, or whether they're really just for purely fiscal reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3187	Earlier today, we have had a debate on the budget for transport. There was a lot of talk about how we were going to build cheaper roads and lanes. A key element in this is the cost to contractors. In connection with the proposal for the increase in the mineral oil tax, we have sent a written question to the Minister of Finance by the Central Party. I would like to congratulate you on the fact that we have received a good and understandable answer. It shows that there is an increase related to plant machinery and other engine tools of 310 million. kr. Entrepreneurs building the road and the track must answer for a significant part of that bill. My question is whether the Minister of Finance is pleased to have increased this levy to 655 million. kr, and whether she sees that this could have consequences in other policy areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3196	At least I'm very pleased that the government in the supplementary proposition of the red-green budget has managed to get a majority for total tax cuts of over 7 billion. kr. I would like to remind you that in the last eight years, total tax incentives have been imposed on the country by over 6 billion. kr. One might say is a total shift from a government that combined increased tax pressure to a government that has ambitions to reduce it. Making claims that a single fee overall would make things worse for the contractors, I believe the centre party has to look a little further to find evidence for. It is necessary to look at the overall impact of all tax reductions in this budget, together with the growth of transport investment and all other things that will help stimulate more activity in business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3203	That is not all that is bad with this tax system, and I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance on the increase in the mineral oil levy mentioned. It's a good grip for the environment. Enough about that. I just want to point out that if it's like giving tax credits to people who earn little, it's to trust them and say that they're well able to dispose of their own money, it should mean that the Workers' Party and SV have more confidence in ordinary people than the Progress Party has – since the Workers' Party and SV in their arrangement increase the bottom line of wages and social security more than the bourgeois majority does. But that's not my question. My question is this: is the Minister of Finance concerned that small economic differences should be an objective of fiscal policy, and can the Minister of Finance promise that the differences in Norway will not increase as a result of the current tax regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3212	The government is also increasing the minimum deduction beyond what the Stoltenberg government put up to, so when SV left the government, they had one view of the minimum deduction, and now that they're in opposition, they have another. I'm dealing with that in and of my own accord, just as a remark. So to the whole debate on small differences. I think we're all happy that we live in a society of small differences, and then the question is how we achieve it. Do we achieve it most effectively through the tax system, or can we also achieve it by making other devices in the way our welfare society is structured? I would at least venture to say that very many of those who really experience Difference Norway are those who are today on the outside of the labour market, but who would like to enter. Therefore, in addition to reducing the tax burden, it is an ambition for this government to ensure that the way into the labour market is easier for those who are currently parked on the outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3221	We have noticed that the government and Finance Minister Siv Jensen see it as a goal to increase the tax burden on Norwegian food producers by removing improvements in the agricultural deduction, introducing more expensive diesel and higher fees to the Food Agency and implementing a change in the inheritance tax that she has not calculated the consequences of. But what I don't understand is why Siv Jensen is always going to push the farmers in front of him by removing the principles of being able to write down values after taking over a business. This includes commercial property, rental properties, gardening and all possible individual enterprises. So why is it that the government doesn't want to go deeper into the losses of other types of corporations, but can't at all write values of, for example, commercial property – that there are only farmers to have an investigation, and not other enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3228	Finally, the Government has been asked by the majority of the population to come back, in the context of the revised budget, with a review of all tax arrangements currently applicable to agriculture. We'll do that. Of course, this is not just about the inheritance fee, it is about a wide range of other favourable tax schemes that Norwegian farmers have received over time, and which we more than like to review to give Stortinget a presentation of. But it is wrong when the Senterpartie repeatedly claims that the government pushes it in front of them not to talk about the consequences of the loss of the inheritance fee. The removal of the inheritance fee is intended. It's one of the most hated charges in Norway, and that's why we're taking it away. But then this government will continue to work to reduce the overall tax burden. This means that in future budgets we will come back to other taxes and taxes that we can benefit from, including in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3235	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3238	The British philosopher Francis Bacon once said, "It's with money that's dirty -- it's the best thing to do when it's spread. The quotation takes up two important points. One is that there is good money in good money – the farmer knows it at home on Jären. The second is the importance of distribution, how to spread the money available — the wider, the better. Without taxes, there is little to distribute. That's why taxes are important, so I've been looking forward to this tax debate, and that's why I pay my taxes with joy. But although we believe that taxes are important, the Workers' Party has a pragmatic relationship with taxes. It is not a goal in itself to have the highest possible tax. On the contrary, we have provided a broader tax base and lower rates. The important thing for us is to have an effective tax system that contributes to fair distribution and that balances differences. That's why we increased the wealth tax for people with high real values and lowered the tax for many with small assets. Since 2005, the proportion that pays taxes on wealth is more than halved by the red-green government. It was just grip, it was grip that helped balance differences. That is why it has also been interesting to listen to the arguments put forward by the Right and the Progressive Party in this debate, because there is not the same pragmatic attitude. The government parties have a purely ideological view of taxation. The tax haven is held up as the solution for the most part. Today's debate only underlines that the bourgeois parties are not interested in seeing the whole of their own tax system, but rather take to an ideological argument when they defend the priority of billions in tax cuts for those who have the most from before. For the right parties, the answer is tax cut, but what was the question? In my opinion, this is a narrow approach to taxation and at least not the approach that spreads the money, as Francis Bacon said. I'm most concerned about business, because there's been a lot of talk and little action here. In the government's tax bill, only 1 out of 10 dollars goes to companies, while 9 out of 10 of these tax credits go to individuals, according to the Ministry of Finance's own calculations. When you see on the personal tax page that it is those who make over 2 million. kr which runs away with most of the cake, and that they with medium income are eaten only with 50 cents of the day, you can see where the road is going. Then this is a budget that isn't much to shout for, it's not a budget for most people, and it's especially not a budget for business in Norway. I am a warm supporter of the active business policy, where the toolbox is full, where the framework conditions are predictable, and thus contribute to the maintenance and creation of more jobs. The goal of business policy is simply that people have a job to do. But now the blue-blue parties are running with the ideologically driven experiment they have, where tax cuts are the most important equipment in the toolbox. In my opinion, this experiment can be canceled, because it has been tried in Sweden. There, the right-wing government met the financial crisis with so-called tax havens. The result in Sweden is historically high unemployment. This week it was even known that Sweden needs EU assistance to deal with youth unemployment above 25 p.m. In Sweden, tax cutting policies became a policy for increasing disparities. In Norway, on the other hand, we met a financial crisis with active industrial policies, where the state contributed to measures that facilitated costs through bad times. It created more jobs and Europe's lowest unemployment. It was a policy for smaller differences. The Labour Party intends to continue our pragmatic approach to the tax system in the years to come. I'm glad. It will allow for the development of a fairer tax system – a work I look forward to being part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3266	The debates here in the Grand Duchy on economic policy are kind of slipping into each other. The last financial debate was also largely about taxes. Tax is important, not just because taxes bring in all necessary incomes to the state and so on to all of us in society, so that common resources can be redeemed. Tax is also important because it can have a distributive effect, it may have an incentive in itself to other conditions, such as: creating new jobs and, not least, securing those we have. The other day, a debate was held by Innovation Norway, where the State Council of Malta started. One of the main themes was the raising of capital for business start-ups. This is undoubtedly an important area. It was pointed out that it is within other industries, for example: shipping, has been good tax arrangements for investors. Perhaps schemes that made it more attractive through tax deductions to invest in new and perhaps unsafe business ventures should be used. The point here is that tax can have more reasons and not just bring income to the state. The tax rules relating to business are particularly important – especially the property tax, the inheritance tax and, of course, the tax on general income. To the last, it's saying that the rate here was proposed to be reduced from 28 pst. until 27 pst. of the previous government. This was good. It was not as good that the general income rate for persons was not proposed to be reduced. Different rates of taxation for persons and companies are a breach of a key feature of the tax system since 1992. Fortunately, the Right Party government has proposed equal rates here, so that most people also benefit from a small but important tax relief. For companies, the general rate of taxation is also important. 27 pst. However, the rate is relatively high compared to that in some other countries. I think this is an area that needs to be given some attention in the future. The same can be said of the taxes on wealth. This is going to be down by 0.1 percentage points. The property tax is and becomes a strange tax such as: means discrimination against Norwegian jobs owned by Norwegian residents in Norway. One consequence of this is that the tax favors foreign ownership, and we have to end this. Here too, much attention needs to be expected in the future. The jewel of the government’s tax crown — to put it that way — is the removal of the inheritance tax. This has several of us focused heavily on earlier, and many have said and are going to say it again: this is very good! This applies not least to the thousands of small business owners now facing generation shifts. Now the next generation can take over the company and not sell it to pay inheritance tax – now companies can operate in the spirit and security of their business. This is precisely job security, and it is helping to develop and create jobs further. And the fact that the removal of the inheritance fee is happening in its entirety now is no less than a very good piece of work from the government. In my article on the financial debate a few days ago, I focused on trust – trust in the individual. The right has always had this as an ideological starting point and a place for all its policies. Allowing the individual to dispose of something more of his own resources is to give trust. It's the way that individuals often know best how to manage their pounds, to put it this way. Nevertheless, we must never forget that trust is also an obligation to contribute to the best of society, and that those who need help in different forms will get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3281	It is said that there are two ways to destroy a city. One is bombs, the other is rent regulation. The latter only takes a little longer. In Amsterdam, none of these have given the city its unique expression, but the property tax of the 1600s. The houses were taxed according to how wide they were, when the politicians in their wisdom thought that the house width was a good expression of wealth. The narrowest house in Amsterdam is therefore barely two meters wide. In England, politicians found out that the number of windows was a smart way to calculate taxes, which led to the richest retaining their windows, while the less mediocre walled them again – with poorer living conditions of lack of ventilation and light as a result. High charges may lead to desired changes in consumption patterns, but also cause Nordics to go to Sweden every year for a total of seven million day trips to trade, and trade has consequences both in the form of lost Norwegian jobs, reduced tax revenues to the country and increased CO2 emissions. Regardless of whether we can or will do something about it, we need to understand the unintended or undesirable effects of the policy being pursued. My point is that even though we are all for tax-funded common resources, it is not entirely immaterial what benefits are being financed or how the tax ego is designed. Over time, it will shape the way society looks, because society adapts to the distortions that politicians put up with. There are many people who talk about distribution when we talk about taxes – either in good faith or with good desires that taxing those who have a lot to give to those who have little raises people from poverty. But it's not possible to distribute us to well-being. How good the intentions behind, for example, the tax on wealth, however, is and will become a peculiar tax affecting Norwegian ownership and Norwegian employment. It damages Norwegian competitiveness and – in the long term – reduces our distribution and remains poorer. To make the rich poor poorer, does not make the poor richer. To that end, we need a good school, a competitive labour market, a creative business – which also provides nourishment to a robust, sustainable welfare country. But there's also another kind of distribution, because it's said that money is power. It must mean that for each tax or charge a state imposes on its citizens, there is a shift of power between state and individual. The design of taxes and taxes therefore also says something about the trust of citizens and defines the relationship of power and trust in a society, and this is where you find the ideological distinction between the left and right sides. For tax purposes, values that cannot be measured in money. It's about trust that as human beings we seek to create the best possible life for ourselves and our family – not at the expense of others, but by means of our own income. It's about trust that entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs want to create values, even beyond economics, for the benefit of both themselves and the community around them. And trust is – unlike what some seem to believe – not politically created, but is generated by the invisible links between people that are woven every day, because we interact. The real values of a society are not reflected in the tables in the State budget – just as little as the state budget is an expression of a real community. Welfare is created outside public budgets every day. Founders create jobs because they think they can solve something better, cheaper or smarter than others. Workplaces are common, and workplaces provide well-being. There's care outside the public all the time -- a father who's drying snows and tears, a friend who gives a shoulder to cry on, or when my husband makes my grandmother laugh as the tears ripple. A good laugh is life-long care. We are approaching the 200th anniversary of the Norwegian Constitution, and it may be worth noting that this refers to taxes, taxes and customs as public burdens. With this, the founding fathers signalled that even if we charge customs, taxes and taxes, there is a burden that should neither be too heavy nor be distributed in such a way as to prevent another constitutional provision, namely that it is up to the state authorities to facilitate that any working person can obtain his or her work. The previous government increased the level of taxation and thus increased the shift of power between the citizen and the state in the favour of the state. A new line is now highlighted in the tax policy. We do not measure the action of our leaders on how much tax burden they impose on the population. This government shows more confidence in entrepreneurs, families and individuals by reducing the total taxes and taxes by about 7 billion. everything in its first budget. I think that removing the inheritance tax, reducing the strange wealth tax on Norwegian jobs and ownership, and not least reducing the tax on ‘outcome at work’ is a good start to the constitutional anniversary. This is the beginning, and I'm looking forward to the continuation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3307	The Health Platform clearly states that the government will reduce the level of taxation and distort the use of oil against investment in knowledge and infrastructure. The Cooperation Agreement between the Government Parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left describes a common value base and a policy based on values that must be created before they can be shared. It implies a policy that recognises the need to look ahead to one who sees the need to invest in the future in order to ensure well-being and as a priority. Together, the four bourgeois parties already demonstrate in this state budget the will and ability to create a new and better direction in fiscal policy. The well-being of the future depends on growth and good use of resources in the mainland economy. The majority of the population’s policies will facilitate growth and increase well-being, both for today’s generation and for future generations. Taxes and charges will bring in about 1,200 billion. kr to the treasury every year. Tax revenue is the main source of funding for public expenditure in Norway. Tax is not an objective, but a means of ensuring common good social mobility, better resource use and good framework conditions for Norwegian business. While the Stoltenberg II government increases tax pressure, the Right-Forward Party government will reduce the collection of taxes and taxes, both for businesses and for people. By levying less tax, we not only contribute to increasing the value creation in the Norwegian economy, but also to spreading power and giving families and individuals greater freedom over their own lives and income. There is a goal in itself. The majority of the population reduces the collection of taxes and taxes by 7 billion. kr in this State budget. The tax scheme is further distinguished by allowing wide groups to participate in the easier way. The biggest and most important change in tax policy is to reduce the tax rate on general income for all, from 28 pst. until 27 pst. The Stoltenberg II Government proposed such a reduction only for companies. It is also proposed by the Right-Forward Party Government for wage earners. Reducing corporate taxes was a good proposal because it helped to strengthen the competitiveness of business. A corresponding reduction in the tax on ordinary wage earners removes a possible room for adjustment, while increasing the room for action of the individual. About half of the people tax relief goes to the income groups between 350 000 and 1 million. kr. Here are most wage earners, and this is a group that has received little tax credits in recent years. A normal family with two employees, who have average wages and average loans, will be able to make up less than NOK 3000 with the majority’s proposal. The property tax is reduced to 1 pst. at the same time as the bottom deduction is increased to 1 million. NOK and to SEK 2 million. kr for married couples. That's good, because the property tax loses Norwegian companies and jobs for capital and makes it less profitable to save and invest. The majority's tax regime provides good growth impulses that will subsequently increase the tax base and tax revenue. With these dynamic effects, between 10 pst. and 30 pst. of the immediate sample surface is recovered over time. In addition, the government maintains the proposal to introduce start-up writing for machinery and other operating equipment in balancing group d. At the same time, we started work on assessing the depreciation rules in the light of impairment of the means of operation. We are also strengthening the commitment to research and development, and the tax FUNN scheme is expanding considerably. This we know is very well received in the companies. Inheritance taxes greatly affect people with low and normal wage incomes. It is very unfair to have to pay a high fee to inherit a childhood home or a family holiday home. Removal of inheritance fees will facilitate generational shifts in family businesses and be an important simplification measure. In addition, the change will facilitate the liquidity tax on generation change in family businesses and the transfer of family property to the next generation. It will also simplify taxable persons, because they no longer need to adhere to a comprehensive inheritance tax code, and it will reduce the cost of the tax haven. It has been calculated that the Tax Directorate’s costs related to collecting an inheritance tax are about 50 million. NOK, and about 90 years of work is engaged in this work. We have now received a government that dares to prioritize, streamline and modernise. Promises good for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3352	I think it's been an interesting debate. One of the finest things about it must be that the central part of the degrees has demonstrated that they care about more groups than the peasants. And we've been told that the Right believes it's a spread of power to give ordinary people 50 ears a day in tax cuts. There are fine clarifications, but there are still a few things I'm a little surprised at. We tried throughout the financial debate, and we continued today, to get the civil settlement partners to answer whether they have any concerns about the consequences at all when they present a proposal that would make it less profitable for large groups to work. We have not received an answer to that. We've tried to get the conciliators to explain how it might seem that we are expressing great concern for a two-part economy and oil dependence at one moment and are voting for a scheme that strengthens oil dependence, next time. The increased use of oil money that finances tax cuts is not, in itself, a topic here today, but tax changes affecting many individual enterprises are a topic today. The representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, has made several bold attempts to find an answer as to why the consequences of the removal of inheritance tax and the transition to the principle of continuity are not properly investigated, and why the consequences for farmers alone – not all other individual companies affected by this. We do not get an answer to that either. We have also tried to get the conciliators to answer for the distribution profile in the tax regime. But then we get the answer that it is not in tax statistics that there are differences — there are differences between those inside and those outside the labour market. It seems as if citizens have completely forgotten that people outside the labour market are also paying taxes. People pay taxes on their social security and pensions. The representative Serigstad Valen tried to make an attempt to clarify that there are the actual income differences between people we refer to, regardless of their relationship to the world of work. Once one has used the tax system to re-distribute, it has reduced the differences in how much people actually have to live for. The government parties wouldn't talk about that. In this debate, the closest thing we came was that the Minister of Finance thought it was hard to care about how the tax system distributes. Nor has anyone cared about defending why in the world the bourgeois reverse the conversion of car charges, which went in a more climate-friendly direction. It's completely impossible to understand – simply. I wish someone would explain why the grip is being done. We had probably hoped for more clarifications, more answers simply, but we must – at least until further notice – note that we hardly get it today either.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3373	I would first of all like to thank you for a good debate, and when the representative Marthinsen comes up with some questions, I think it may be a good idea to try to give some answers, if the representative has not understood these answers in the speeches that have been from the undersigned and the other bourgeois parties in this debate. When it comes to the question of triggering a system where it becomes less profitable to work, we disagree. I assume that the representative Marthinsen is thinking about tax class 2. Giving families a greater degree of freedom of choice over a period is important and does not have to be opposed to being active in the workplace. With regard to the argument that we are becoming more oil dependent, I think the most important thing is that through budgetary policy and the use of oil money, we show that we have discipline. 3.9 B.C.E. This means that we can be confident that there will be a stable and good economic environment not least for industry in the future. I record that we have different perceptions of what creates inequalities in this society. I understand that the representative Marthinsen and the Workers' Party want to link this to a tax statistic, but for us, this inequality goes much deeper and is about realizing that the great differences in society go between those who are in the labour market and those who are outside the labour market. That is why it has been important for us to provide a tax package that strengthens the ability of companies to grow and create safe jobs, so that we can have as many people as possible at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3386	I said in my main speech that the tax debates – at least in this room and in Norway – are quite predictable, because they tend to focus unilaterally on redistribution. It has been repeated here today, and I recorded with some surprise that the representative Tvedt Solberg was now down to an estimate of the tax relief for medium income at 50 o'clock a day, while the representative Giske during the financial debate was so exhausted that he said it was a penny. So it's moving. The representative Marthinsen believes that this is the tax relief that this arrangement provides for ordinary people. There is nothing in these claims that holds hold in the world of reality. On the contrary, there is actually a rather high average income in Norway, and a large majority of Norwegian employees will receive significant tax relief through this scheme. It's no worse than you can go in and look at the tables that are in the proposition to figure out the correct amounts. There's a tendency that you have to keep exaggerating, and that you might have a little bit too awkward with the truth of some things. So to the accusations that the whole positive arrangement of the previous government's proposal for car taxes and CO2 taxes is actually reversed. That's not right either. What this government has done is to actually reverse the biggest increase in CO2 taxes in order to protect some of the slightly larger family cars that some people, after all, need. So this is a slight adjustment to what was proposed by the government of Stoltenberg. It's not a big and dramatic change. Otherwise, I think that very many of the questions asked by the opposition have been answered continuously. With regard to the inheritance tax and the possible consequences of removing the possibility to write down operating funds several times, it is in reality the Stortinge will ask that the impact on agriculture be examined in particular and that the government will return to this in the revised national budget. It is related to the fact that not only is there a write-up of operating resources that are shut down for agriculture, but there are also a number of other special tax advantages that are then highlighted when we get this back into the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3403	Then we almost have to try for the third time, because the representative Marthinsen is quite right that when you calculate income differences in a society, that includes everyone. It's not the tax statistics representative Marthinen and I'm talking about, but methods of calculating economic inequality in a society. It's not an academic exercise, but it's a way to visualize how power in the form of money is distributed in a society. One of the most recognized ways to do it is called the Gini Index. Gini – that’s a word Right should learn today. It is not a question of tax statistics. It is the calculation of economic differences in a society. The fact that people are out of work, yes, it helps to increase the differences so that you get a higher score on the Gini index. The fact that people stay home because of e.g. tax class 2, it can contribute to increased inequality. The fact that more people are out of work as a result of cash support and more expensive kindergartens can lead to increased inequality. But to give many tens of thousands of dollars in tax cuts to those who have the most, and just a few dollars to those who have the least, that also increases inequality. The government’s tax regime will therefore give rise to increased economic differences in Norway. And when you look at the degrees that themselves represent a policy that sends healthy people home – people who could have worked, but as right-hand side for ideological reasons will stimulate to be at home instead – then the whole rehearsed line of defense becomes outside the workplace, when we try to have a debate on economic differences, a very small fig leaf. Because what we're interested in is the actual distribution effects of the government's tax regime, and it should be either the finance minister or some of the many figures present from the government parties here, trying to answer at least once. Because Norway, in the last eight years, is among the few countries around the world that have managed to reduce the economic differences between people. That's good. It is not good to have any desire to punish the rich, as it is suggested. It's not because it looks nice on a table, but because it leads to a more even distribution of power. It is a much more important form of power distribution than any of the taboos the Right has chosen to make its power-allocation policy visible, for example. free shooting in the municipalities. Right, which is a lot of money and tax-absorbing, should be more involved in this. Then we can have more meaningful debates in Stortinget, and I should, for example. wish me a clear answer – if not from the Minister of Finance, then from someone else – whether it is the case that the opposition parties also expect increased economic differences as a result of their tax arrangements. If no, can they prove it? If so, is it because they think it's ideologically right? That's what I think is the answer, and then they should just say it outright, as the government's weapons sponsor, Kristin Clement, does. It would be much more straightforward.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3416	I want to acknowledge that the property tax has a clear distribution profile. I guess the state's taken in about 13 billion. which could have been used to reach e.g. 1 pst. goal of spending money on culture. I don't have a problem with small differences in society -- it's a good value -- but I'm also one of those who think that cohesion is not necessarily the goal, but that reducing poverty is an objective. When the party that went to the elections to eliminate poverty in Norway, left 15 000 more poor children, I have some problems taking that criticism seriously. For those who live in poverty, the distance from the richest is not the most important thing, but the proximity is helping to elevate. The government reduces the overall tax burden and benefits the entire population in terms of safe jobs, increased competitiveness and strengthening Norwegian ownership. It ensures the financing of a sustainable, robust welfare country, which should not be everything for everyone, but which should be very precise for those who need it the most. The representative Trond Giske is probably one of the many who has been asked to remove the property tax, and was supported by the then LO leader Roar Flåthen. Fleethen was afraid the tax threatened Norwegian industrial development and Norwegian jobs. This government has begun a gradual reduction. At the same time, we close the gap between corporation tax and ordinary employees and reduce both to 27 pst. The government of Stoltenberg II only proposed to reduce corporate taxes, while we believe this should also benefit ordinary employees. Moreover, different rates invite for tax adjustment and are not a good solution. I am looking forward to the 2017 election campaign, where the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party will go to the elections to reintroduce the property tax and inheritance tax. A peculiar tax on Norwegian ownership and Norwegian jobs is a safe electoral winner, I think, for the Center Party. So we know that the Scheel Committee is going to make its recommendations for the next harvest tax system. It is perfectly legitimate to ask if we could not have waited for the tax changes until this investigation was complete, but I think that then Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg said something wise when the Business of Today asked him about this exactly when the red-greens suddenly made suggestions to reduce corporate tax. Then he said, ‘No, it is a mistake to do too often in Norwegian policy. You refer to investigations and then you don't act. I believe it is important for politicians to be able to do things that are obviously right even if there is an investigation going on." There's an investigation going on, but this government's ability to do something that's obviously right, and has given clear signals that this is just the first step towards a better, more modern, structured tax system that will finance the welfare of the future, and help lift the poor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3437	Thanks to the Progress Party who explained that the changes in the car charge are to protect some of the biggest cars – then we know it. But I think it's strange that the parties that were involved in the climate deal are going to vote for it. Then the representative Meling disagrees that reintroduction of class 2 makes it less profitable to work, but it's actually not possible to disagree in fact. In that case, the representative Meling believes that taxes do not work on the job offer, and in that case, the new tones from the Right – the representative Meling does not believe that tax class 2 is contrary to stimulating work. No, well -- the right didn't think, unlike all scientists, that cardboard mats would make fewer fathers take leave, but they're budgeting for it next year. There is no doubt that more cash support, more expensive kindergarten and tax class 2 will make fewer women work, and I don't understand why it can't just be admitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3444	There's something in this debate that's a little amazing. When the government removed the inheritance fee – which sounded very nice, and then I thought it was a battle-up – it had well thought it had figured out the consequences of removing it, but no, it had not. Then we challenge again and again whether it has investigated the consequences of removing the fee, and then we are accused of being a little annoying or tiring. But I believe that it is a government's duty to investigate the consequences of the proposals it makes, and when the government has not yet been able to give a single answer on the consequences it has for individual enterprises, it is amazing. We don't know how to do that, for example. will affect those with commercial property – what are its tax incentives? We don't know what tax incentives it gives to those who are going to take over rental properties, we don't know what tax incentives it gives to those who run small joinery workshops, and we could still do that with a variety of businesses around Norway that don't know what tax incentives they're going to get. The fact that the Ministry of Finance has not been able to begin to give an answer, an estimate, an assumption, over the weeks since the beginning of these questions shows that the majority of the population makes a decision in the blind — as they claim to be nutritious, but they do not know. In the negotiations a proposal was made, and that was to explain the consequences for one group, for farmers. It's good that someone gets to figure out the consequences for one group. It was then that the consequences for that group were read as something positive, but in this debate, the point, which I think the Christian People's Party and the Left fought in, was turned to something negative, because the reason for the consequences is that agriculture has so many tax advantages that we have to go through them all, said both the representative – no, not the representative, the future representative, Jensen – and the current representative, Limi. If that's what the Christian People's Party got through to, I'm very surprised. If the whole point with the victor that was celebrated was that one should go through all the different farming schemes to see if one can introduce tax incentives, it's amazing. And that's what the Progress Party has now said several times – both the Council of State and the representative – so I challenge the head of the Finance Committee, Hans Olav Syversen, to confirm or cancel it. I believe, with my best will, that the Christian People's Party chose to take it in, not because they wanted to give reinforcements, but to look at the consequences, and possibly make new steps that will make one not get increased tax incentives for individuals' businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3451	I'm always a follower of listening when someone says they think. The representative Schlagsvold Vedum believes that the Christian People's Party's intention of the proposal was to look at the effects of the inheritance tax scheme, from the farmer's point of view, and he is quite right in that. We don't think of it as a proposal to increase the tax burden in other ways – then I've clarified it, I guess. So for the debate related to what the SV representatives in particular are sending people home. There's no selfishness in people, obviously, they're sent home by the big state. It's really very indicative of how you think out there on the left. It's the state that directs where you are, where you work, and when you're home. Read the tax proposition, which says it's black on white that as a result of removing tax class 2, there are many who get less advice – it's black on white from the Stoltenberg government. But then you have a kind of paradisaic approach – here on earth – that everyone has a job to go to tomorrow, so that you can raise the family's total income, but it's actually not like that. It's not like that for the one who's the minimum pensioner, and the other who's in the full-time job. I want the recipe on how they're going to increase their total income, from those who are now concerned with inequalities in Norwegian society. It's also very interesting that it's quite appropriate to be at home, or go home, as you call it, until the child is one year old, because social democracy has decided – that's good. But don't try another day, then you have to go out and work. I think people are going through this way of thinking. And what should the consequence be? This means that you have thought from red-green clay, at least red, for example. scraping AFP? After all, the AFP is sending people home before work. I'm very excited to see the result of this so-called consistent line of work presented here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3460	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3463	I think that paradisaic approaches should be made by the representative of the Syversen. With regard to self-will, someone would probably think that giving money to people, and then mainly women, to be home instead of working, actually has an effect and gives incentives to be home instead of working. If the Christian People's Party disagrees with that, I wonder why tax class 2 and cash support are so important to the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3471	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3474	Yes, since we have been accused of not responding, I should at least answer. Yes, these are arrangements that are important because we balance some different purposes. That, I understand, is not important for SV, but that has been clarified in this debate. The interesting thing is – I have to take it another time – why SV has in its programme that the one-time benefit should be increased. This must, of course, prevent the workline and help people stay at home. I am interested in getting a debate on why you have such inconsistent objectives. Of course, because you use, or perhaps abuse, the opportunity to attack exactly those arrangements that don't fit into the red consensus.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3481	The representative, Eidsvoll Holmås, has asked for the floor. Holmås gets the word for an article of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3484	Yes, not only do I have up to 3 minutes, I have three articles. I'm not going to use everybody, but since there was a challenge back to Snorre Serigstad Valen, and he has no more speaking time, I allow myself to answer the challenge of Hans Olav Syversen. The question of one-off aid comes, among other things: up – unless there is a way to make people stay at home. No, Hans Olav Syversen, there's a way to make sure that those who haven't earned their rights are given the opportunity to get some money that's important in the case where you have a child. I'd like to say one more thing. If I interpret Hans Olav Syversen in the best possible sense – and that is what I think you should do from the pulpit, even though I do not think that Hans Olav Syversen has always done it in the debate with Snorre Serigstad Valen, but if you have to interpret what Hans Olav Syversen says in the best sense – it is that you want to encourage children to be more with their parents, and then you have cash support as a solution. We have never criticised the idea that you should have the opportunity to be with children. But we see it as very negative to add up to a support scheme that is a cash amount, which will necessarily be most attractive to the worst-paid family member, and especially to those who have particularly poor advice – to provide that kind of support. That's why we've been involved in expanding, for example. parental leave scheme – a system of 100 pst. of wages, where there is just as much to fathers as to mothers, just as much to people who have good advice, as to people who have lower incomes — while cash support is primarily a targeted effort to be at home against those who have the worst connection to working life. That's what we've been criticizing, and that's what we've been criticizing the system that is. If I get the opportunity to go back quickly to the last challenge to Siv Jensen: I have been listening to the whole debate. There has been an exciting debate on distribution, and many have said a lot differently. But I think like that: Siv Jensen has among other things. Margaret Thatcher as an ideal – she has at least expressed it earlier. Some of what we know is that when Margaret Thatcher took over in the United Kingdom, there was as much trust between people there as there is between people in Norway today. However, differences in the United Kingdom increased — as a result of fiscal and labour policies. The trust between people in the United Kingdom today is roughly halved. It's a development I don't want for Norway. And I think like that: Margaret Thatcher is dead, but had she been sitting on a chair and seen the budget for Siv Jensen, and Siv Jensen had asked, "What do you think of the budget, Margaret Thatcher?" I think she had said that the tax you've set up is not stupid.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3497	The President will remind the representative, Eidsvoll Holmås, that it is the Council of State, Siv Jensen, who is present in this Chamber and that all speeches should be addressed to the President, not directly to the representatives. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Four and five.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3513	Very short – and I think I speak on behalf of the committee. We have a wide range of tax agreements to deal with. Every time there is such an agreement for processing, we get a wide range of e-mails about how unfair some people are being treated as a result of these agreements. The Committee is unanimous in its position, but also in its comment, which refers to a review by the government of a number of aspects relating to the situation of ‘north-born foreigners’, including the assessment of service offices abroad in cooperation between Nav and the tax haven, as well as the review of the withholding tax. It's just the last one, the withholding tax, that's why the e-mails run in both times and hours. We recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3524	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3538	I see I have half an hour. I can reassure the assembly that that time I don't intend to spend. [[Laughter]] I thought here the other day that I could well plan to be called by the newspaper that has the column about what you have lying on the night table. If I had got that question, I could say, as it was true, that there I have the Occupational Pensions Act. [[Laughter]] [[Laughter]] It would probably be followed up by an additional question of a more literary nature, like what you think of the contents of this font. Then, of course, I could have struggled with well-known concepts such as the ‘mortality basis’, the ‘mortality legacy’, the ‘crime point’ and the ‘zero guarantee’ – to name someone. Now I never got that question, and it's probably just as good. Many might think that you might lose the night sleep of less. Pension relationships in the private sector may be partly complicated. Traditionally, the schemes that existed were largely performance-based. These tended to guarantee a certain percentage of wages and salaries at the time of retirement. The scheme had a built-in guarantee of the level of the pension itself. However, as is known, not all private sector professionals had pension schemes in addition to public social security. A general pension scheme, the OTP scheme, was therefore introduced in 2006, which is thus a purely deposit scheme. We have therefore had two private pension schemes, which in form and content are relatively different. For example, the performance scheme — under certain conditions — would be predictable, while the OTP scheme would not provide any guarantee or predictability. The legislative proposal presented, Prop. 199 L Occupational Pensions Act, deals with and provides direction for alternative pension schemes. The proposal is based on NOU 2012:13 of the Banking Law Commission. The law allows for the choice and flexibility of the employer enterprise and, in this way, also of the employees. The occupational pension will be a collective insurance-based scheme in addition to social security. The bill means that we get a new model of earnings. In simple terms, the employer must pay a certain percentage of wages and salaries — and, where appropriate, other allowances to be included in this — a maximum of 7 pst. between 0 and 12 G plus possibly 18.1 pst. between 7,1 and 12 G. Furthermore, the scheme will be added to ‘mortality inheritance’ plus an annual regulation. When it opens up for a significant percentage increase, i.e. 18.1 pst. between 7.1 and 12 G, it's because the population's security doesn't make any money between that interval. Pensions under the law here are usually called hybrids. That is because the scheme in some way combines the performance scheme but nevertheless is a deposit scheme, as is the OTP scheme. The whole process — from the NOU setting to the Ministry’s work on the legislative proposal — has been subject to considerable attention. Extensive consultations have taken place during the proceedings, and even after the matter was brought before the Financial Committee, there have been many enquiries. In particular, there has been one issue on which there has been a strong focus. This concerns the reimbursement of the administrative and administrative costs of the scheme. After the bill, these costs were to be covered within the maximum deposit rates. The objection here has been that such a scheme would be unwieldy to the individual and would also cause some practical difficulties. If costs are added to pure pension contributions, it will be easier for employees and also for employers to calculate future pensions. It may also be argued in other directions because many companies do not want to use the maximum rates, and thus the good coverage of costs within the maximum rates. However, following an overall assessment, the Committee recommended that costs be added to the rates and that the second paragraph of Section 4-7 of the Act be amended accordingly. Finally, it should also be pointed out that there will be some challenges in the future. After all, a falling rate of interest means that the return on deposits is not particularly high. It is expected that the purely defined benefit pension schemes will be closed to some extent – as has been the case to date – and the Committee points out that further work needs to be done on the rules for transition between pension schemes and that this work is given particular attention. I'll make note of that in the Inner East. 35 L page 23 is the wrong number of Romans in an incursion. Where it says IV, it's going to be III, and on page 24, it's going to be IV. In addition, the Committee unanimously endorses the government's proposal for a law on occupational retirement provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3561	I just want to link a few comments to the setting. Let me begin by commending the committee for doing a very good and collective work in a very complicated matter. I just want to comment on some of the points in the setting. The first is that I have noticed that the Committee proposes that administrative and administrative costs should also be added to the maximum deposit rates. I noticed that the Committee believes that the same should apply to deposit arrangements, and will follow this up with the necessary regulatory changes while setting the new deposit pension rates. So I have noticed that the Committee believes that it is appropriate to consider whether the 77-year limit of the Pensions Act and the Pensions Act should be amended to 80 years, so that there is consistency between the Pensions Act, the Pensions Act and the proposal, i.e. equal regulation in all three laws. I will also consider this and possibly come back to Stortinget with a bill. I have also noticed that the Committee asks the Ministry to consider whether there is reason to propose amendments to the applicable rules of the Pensions Pensions Act and the Occupational Pensions Act in the light of what has been proposed, relating to the possibility for employees to pay their own contributions, so that there are equal rules. I will also return to Stortinget with this, if necessary. The Banking Law Commission will now investigate issues related to defined benefit pension schemes, as it has already been entrusted with the task of 21 March. It has been suggested by the government that a law decision can come into force from the turn of the year. I am therefore very pleased that an overall committee joins the proposal in the proposal. It has also been suggested that the regulatory maximum rates for deposit schemes be increased in order to harmonise with the limits proposed for the new product. It has been suggested that such an increase will occur at the same time as the legislative decision enters into force, including the change in the break point of deposit pension schemes from 6 to 7.1 G. The Government will normally consider the need for adjustments and any transitional arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3572	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e3578	Then Stortinget is ready for voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e5408	The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e5515	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-7, from Terje Breivik on behalf of the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Frame area 21 [[Taxes, duties and customs duties]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e13391	The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e13408	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-2, by Marianne Marthinsen, on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 3-5, by Terje Breivik on behalf of the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. Three to five from the left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 14 on taxes on wealth and income are amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e13490	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the extension of the Land-For-Land Act to be reported by the government so that the companies concerned also have to report on their activities in countries where they have support functions, including tax havens, and submit a proposal to that effect at the latest in the context of the presentation of the revised National Budget for 2014.’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the purpose of the Land-by-Land Reporting Act to be extended to include tax evasion and to submit proposals to the Stortinget at the latest in relation to the submission of the revised National Budget for 2014.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e13512	In order to reduce the number of votes cast, the President, after convening with the members of the Financial Committee, and in line with previous practice, will propose a re-unified voting order on the recommendation for a vote. In this case, it will mean that all parties will support the proposal for a decision of the nomination following the fall of the minority proposals and, in this context, will also refer to the consideration of the Innst 2 S for 2013–2014. The President will stress the natural assumption that when the parties accept such voting practices, this should not be used against a party on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e15002	It is voted over the titles of the laws and the laws in their entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e15012	Law decisions will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e15015	President! I voted incorrectly in a previous vote. I say from because I don't want it to be used against me on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e15020	After the fall of Stortinget's club, it is difficult because we may have to take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e15023	That's what they say! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e15028	That's what they say, and the president has answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e16465	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e16475	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-05.ana.ud1435e16487	There is no record. The President will remind you of the start of the meeting tomorrow at nine o'clock. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
