ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-18.ana.ud982e28	The representative, Bjørn Lødemel, who has been licensed, has once again taken the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there are three letters to Stortinget, dated 16 October 2013: The first letter reads: ‘The Office of the Minister of State has the honour to announce: In the Council of State of His Majesty The King held at Oslo Castle on 16 October 2013 at 2.30 p.m. 1000 is decided: On application for the resignation of the Government submitted by the Council of State on 14 October 2013, I recommend on behalf of the Council of State: Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, Minister of Foreign Affairs Espen Barth Eide, Councillors of State Vegar Solhjell, Liv Signe Navarsete, Grete Faremo, Sigbjørn Johnsen, Trond Giske, Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen, Jonas Gahr Støre, Kristin Halvorsen, Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen, Greten Huitfeldt, Rigmor Aasrud, Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, Marit Arnstad, Ola Borten Moe, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, Trygve Slagsvold Vedum and Hadia Tajik are granted on application from his office as members of the Royal Council on 16 October 2013 at 1200. His Majesty The King's appointment of a new government: Erna Solberg is appointed Prime Minister and the following as Prime Minister from 16 October 2013 at 1200: Siv Jensen Stortingsrepresentative Jan Tore Sanner Secretary General Vidar Helgesen Tidl. Depositary representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen Managing Director Børge Brende Board member Thorhild Widvey Stortingsrepresentative Elisabeth Aspaker County councillor Kristine Sundtoft City councillor Monica Mæland Stortingsrepresentative Solvent Horne Stortingsrepresentative Bent Höie Tidl. Director of Communications Tord Lien Stortingsretten Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide Senior Adviser Sylvi Listhaug Stortingsretten Torbjørn Røe Isaksen» The second letter reads: «Changes in the Departmental Structure The State Council of His Majesty The King held at the Oslo Castle on 16 October 2013 at 9.30 p.m. 1200 is determined: The members of the Government take over the board of departments as follows: State Council Siv Jensen takes over the board of the Ministry of Finance, except for the management of the government's purchase of climate quotas. State Council Jan Tore Sanner takes over the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. In addition, he is responsible for: – Employer Policy Department, Construction, Security and Services Department, State Administration Department, ICT Department and Renewal [[except for tasks related to the coordination of broadband policy]] The State Council of Vidar Helgesen shall be the State Council of the Prime Minister’s Office for the Coordination of EEA Matters and Relations with the EU, including responsibility for the EEA Agreement and its management tasks. He is responsible for managing the tasks of the Department of Europe and Trade of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in EU and EEA matters, as well as other tasks related to EU and EEA matters in other parts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He shall also be Chief of Staff at the Office of the Prime Minister and assist the Prime Minister in her work. Councillor Ketil Solvik-Olsen takes over the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Transport and the Management of the Coastal and Environmental Department of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. In addition, he is given responsibility for the tasks of the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs relating to broadband. Minister of Foreign Affairs Børge Brende takes over the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, including responsibility for development matters, except: – the matters of the Council of State Vidar Helgesen, and – climate and forest activities. Government Councillor Thorhild Widvey takes over the board of the Ministry of Culture and in addition assumes responsibility for church affairs, including the administration of the Church Department of the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs. Councillor Elisabeth Aspaker takes over the Management Board of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Department, the Maritime Food Department and the Communications Unit of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. State Council Kristine Sundtoft takes over the board of the Ministry of the Environment, except the Planning Department. In addition, she is responsible for: – climate and forest activities, including the management of relevant parts of the Climate, Global Health and Sustainable Development Section of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and relevant parts of the Agriculture and Forestry Section of the Climate, Energy and Environment Section of the North; and – the management of the government’s purchase of climate allowances. Councillor Monica Mæland takes over the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade. In addition, she is responsible for: – company law, – competition matters, including the Board of Competition Policy Department of the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs, and – the Board of the Department of Research, Management and Administration of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. Government Council Solvency Horne takes over the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. Councillor Bent Höie takes over the board of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Councillor Robert Eriksson takes over the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Labour. State Council Anders Anundsen takes over the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Justice and Defence, with the exception of liability for company law. Councillor Tord Lien takes over the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Oil and Energy. State Council Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide takes over the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Defence. Councillor Sylvi Listhaug takes over the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. Government Council Torbjørn Røe Isaksen takes over the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Knowledge. The Council of State Elisabeth Aspaker is appointed as Norway's representative in the Nordic Council of Ministers with the specific task of being responsible for the coordination of Nordic cooperation issues.» The third letter reads as follows: ‘The Office of the Minister of State has the honour to announce: In the Council of State of H.M. The King held at Oslo Castle on 16 October 2013 at 2.30 p.m. 1200 is intended: the following is appointed State Secretary from 16 October 2013 at 1 p.m. United States Secretary-General of State, Jan Tore Sanner Jarder Jensen Jarden, for State Council, Jan Tore Sanner Jarden, for State Council, Jan Tore Sanner Hoksrud, for State Council, Jan Tore Sanner Per-Willy Trudvang Amundsen, for State Council, Jan Tore Sanner Amundsen, for State Council, Jan Tore Sanner Amundsen, for State Council, Jan Tore Sanner Amundsen, for State Council, Jan Tore Sanner Alden, for State Council, Jan Tore Sanner Bals, for State Council The President proposes that these three letters be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. The change of government entails the following changes in the composition of the Storting: The former members of the government, Anniken Huitfeldt, Bård Vegar Solhjell, Trygve Battle violence Vedum, Lisbeth Berg-Hansen, Rigmor Aasrud, Jens Stoltenberg, Hadia Tajik, Jonas Gahr Støre, Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås, Liv Signe Navarsete, Marit Arnstad and Trond Giske take the seat as representatives. The following alternates, representing Jan Tore Sanner, Erna Solberg, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, Siv Jensen, Bent Höie, Solveig Horne, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Elisabeth Aspaker and Anders Anundsen, are members of the Government and Bård Hoksrud, Secretary of State: For Akershus County: Hairy Rivers For the province of Hordaland: Erik Skutle For Oslo: Heidi Nordby Lunde and Mazyar Keshvari For the Rogaland County: Sveinung Stensland and Helge Thorheim For Telemark County: Solveig Sundbø Abrahamsen and Kristian Norheim For the Province of Troms: Regina Alexandrova For the Westfold province: Tom E. B. Holthe The representatives Kari Henriksen, Anette Trettebergstuen, Else-May Botten, Eirik Sivertsen and Arve Kambe apply for leave from 21 October to 15 November – all to attend the 68th ordinary General Assembly of the United Nations, second part, in New York. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the More and Romesdal counties, Tove-Lise Torve, there is an application for an exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Else-May Botten from 22 October to 24 October due to disease. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the period of leave as follows: For the West-Agder province: Linda Verdal 22.10.-13.11. For Hedmark County: Lasse Juliussen 22.10.–13.11. For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Eva Vinje Aurdal 22.10-24.10. and Tove-Lise Torve from 4.11. to 13.11. For the county of Nordland: Tone-Helen Toften 22.10.–13.11. For the Province of Rogaland: Sissel Knutsen Hegdal 22.10.-13.11.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-18.ana.ud982e363	The representative, Karin Andersen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-18.ana.ud982e366	On behalf of the representatives of Audun Lysbakken, Snorre Serigstad Valen and myself, I would like to make a proposal not to extend doctors' right of reservation in terms of referral to abortion, prescription printing on pills or referral to assisted conception.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-18.ana.ud982e371	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-18.ana.ud982e383	In the election on 9 September the parties left, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right majority in the Stortinget. The majority of these parties are historically strong. All four parties promised the voters that a new majority would give a new policy and a new government. That promise has been fulfilled by all four parties. The parties have agreed through discussions to manage jointly the majority of the political voters. There is agreement on a common value base, and in a number of areas there is agreement on a new policy course. This is enshrined in a cooperation agreement. The Left and Christian People's Party decided that they did not want to move on to negotiations with a view to participating in a new government. The Right Party and the Advance Party have therefore assumed responsibility for forming a government. The Government bases its work on the cooperation agreement and the policy platform, the Sundvolden Declaration. The value anchoring of government lies in the principles of the rule of law and democracy and the Christian and humanist cultural heritage. The government will build its policy on freedom and trust in the inhabitants. A better society grows out of creativity and industriousness. The government will create greater levers for those who will create a new enterprise, for those who engage in voluntary organisations and for those who take responsibility for their community through elected authorities. The government values their efforts and commitment, and has confidence that they want the best for the people around them. The government will base its policy on respect for knowledge. A school that manages to develop the potential of each student, regardless of background, is the goal. Then we achieve a society where what counts is the individual's ability and effort, not who the parents are or where they come from. The government will work for a society with social mobility for individuals and opportunities for all. The work of realising the knowledge society is therefore becoming an area of concern for the government. A professional lift shall be carried out. The Government shall substantially step up research efforts and focus on the long-termity of research policy. Several world-leading university environments are to be established. The knowledge needs of society can be met by increasing quality in higher education and vocational schools. The government will also focus on knowledge and competences in other areas. Better assistance for adults with reading and writing difficulties will strengthen the workline. Increased commitment to care skills will provide better opportunities for the elderly and caregivers. More research will give us new insights and bring society forward. It's the teacher that matters most to the students' learning. The government will therefore pursue an ambitious school policy. Efforts on the teacher shall be made as a primary priority. Efforts for continuing training of teachers shall be stepped up. The teachers' jobs are among society's all, most important. The vision is to make the profession so attractive that in the long run it attracts the very best young people. In particular, the government will bet in mathematics and real science. Together with the teacher organisations, the government will develop new career paths in school. The goal is to keep the best teachers where they mean the most: in the classroom. The government will build its policy on the need to create values before they can be distributed. An important area of activity for this government will therefore be to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs. A job to go to means personal development, a social community and home security. For the country, it means safer funding for the welfare community. High employment is therefore an important objective. The government will work to get more disabled people into the labour market. The government's vision is a society where everyone can participate. The government will increase the use of activity requirements in welfare schemes to support below the working line. It's worth your while to work. The government will work for a serious and good work life for everyone. Social dumping is not acceptable. The government will focus on good cooperation with the social partners. In the years to come, our society can again face economic challenges. The danger signals are there. Unemployment has been increasing in the last year. The competitiveness of Norwegian jobs is weakened. Innovation and research efforts have been too low over time. Today, we do not create greater values per capita in the mainland economy than we did before the financial crisis. The two-way distribution of the Norwegian economy is an important challenge. Compared to the size of the Norwegian economy, investment in the continental economy has fallen to a low level. The government will pursue a policy of continuing high employment. The competitiveness of Norwegian jobs needs to be strengthened. The government will therefore deploy infrastructure more quickly and lower taxes. The government will also reduce the red tape of businesses and focus more on knowledge and research. It will give Norway more legs to stand on financially, and it will provide a safer society. The government will base its economic policy on the rule of action. The increased use of oil money should be reversed towards investment in knowledge and infrastructure as well as growth-enhancing tax relief. The use of public money shall, within the framework of the rules of action, be adapted to the situation in the economy. An important area of government activity will be building the country, with particular emphasis on investment in more modern infrastructure. New instruments shall be used to develop roads faster and more efficiently than today. Better roads will improve accessibility, enhance competitiveness and improve road safety. Increased investment in rail and public transport will deliver better results in reducing CO2 emissions, provide reduced challenges in the housing market and, at the same time, give our cities room to grow. This will help create a simpler everyday life for most people. Our maritime tradition should be further developed, including: by stimulating more freight transport on short sea shipping. The government will base its policy on social responsibility and publicly funded welfare solutions. The Norwegian welfare community is built up over generations. The first cautious steps were taken already in the 1800s, before most of today's political parties were formed. Since then, the arrangements have been expanded, strengthened and improved under the changing political majority. The government will continue its work. An important area of government activity will be to implement a welfare promise for the elderly and the sick. Many today wait unnecessarily long or get too poor a care offer. It makes disease get worse. People get sick and fall out of work. This creates uncertainty. The Government will assume greater responsibility for a faster expansion of care capacity. Quality and activity become important objectives. The last years of life must have a meaningful content — including for the elderly affected by dementia or other suffering. The government will introduce free treatment choices into the healthcare system. The aim is to reduce treatment queues and wait time and to strengthen patients’ freedom of choice. The government will ensure good emergency and food supplies throughout the country. Hospitals must be ensured with ICT systems that provide good electronic communication. Much is very good in the Norwegian welfare community. Most of us get the help we need when we need it. Nevertheless, there are still groups that are not well enough caught up in our safety net. An important area of government activity will therefore be to strengthen the safety net so that fewer fall through. Patients with drug dependence or mental health challenges have been at the bottom of the table for too many years. You need to get a better offer. Adults lacking basic skills shall be provided with better monitoring and skills enhancement. The community assumes a responsibility for children when the family does not handle it itself. It's a strength for our society. But so far, we have not been able to give children and young people in the care of children and in drug institutions such a good schooling that they have equal opportunities. Many of these children have been failed. The government will strengthen its efforts to avoid their failure once more. Many children also grow up in poor families. Children are not responsible for the situation of their parents. Nevertheless, it characterizes the growth and opportunities of children. The government will increase the use of activity requirements in welfare policy to lift more people out of poverty and into work. It will be easier to go from social security to work, and it will pay off to work. The government will increase the one-off benefit of birth and adoption and facilitate a better social profile of childcare and SFO parental payments. As a result, more children will have access to important social arenas. It will be an important goal for the government to ensure that children growing up in poor families are given more equal opportunities. In this way, the government will strengthen the social security network. The government will pursue a strict but fair immigration and asylum policy. The Government will follow up the agreement between the cooperation parties in the foreign field. The government will place greater emphasis on child-care assessments in asylum matters. Access to family establishment and family reunification shall be tightened. At the same time, there shall be increased use of discretion in cases which are obviously not about coercion or the couple’s inability to support themselves. The procedure needs to be more effective. The government will work for faster deployment of persons without legal residence and of criminal foreigners. The integration policy shall aim to ensure that immigrants feel belonging and related to the Norwegian society. All Norwegian citizens are fully members of society with the duties and rights entailed. The government will focus on Norwegian training and participation in the labour market in integration. Those legally resident in the country will receive good follow-up. The government will counter discrimination and injustice. The government will work for a universal law on discrimination and equality. Each individual shall be treated as an independent individual and shall not be held responsible for the words and deeds of others. In equality policy, the government will focus on equal opportunities and the freedom to make its own choices. The government’s policy is based on the individual’s need for security. Security in everyday life and a strengthened preparedness will therefore become an important area of government commitment. Individuals must be able to feel safe inside and outside their own home. Strengthening police ground personnel needs to strengthen operational capacity, prevention and not least local presence. The tragic events of 22 July 2011 showed that preparedness needs to be improved. The government will make Norway better equipped to face future crises. The Commission’s report and the police analysis provide a good basis for the work to be done. The government will strengthen the coordination capacity of preparedness work and focus on increasing the efficiency of implementation. The government will base its policy on the most effective use of Community resources. Our society has become too bureaucratic. There's also too much detail control. So an important area for government will be to create a simpler everyday life for most people. Promises and rules shall be reviewed with a view to removing unnecessary prohibitions and prohibitions. We need to build our society more on trust and less on regulation, bureaucracy and control systems. The government will base its policy on the responsibility of the administrator and on the precautionary principle. Climate threats and poverty are major global challenges. For this reason, a wide-ranging agreement has been reached in the UK on climate policy. The government will base the climate agreement on its work. The cooperation parties wanted to go beyond what was possible in the climate agreement. The Government will take responsibility for the life base of future generations by contributing to internationally committed emission agreements and by investing in research and development of new technologies that can contribute to the realisation of a low-carbon society. Research and innovation are going to be crucial. The government will build its policy on international law, international solidarity and universal human rights. Norway has an obligation to combat poverty and distress in other parts of the world. The government will maintain a high level of assistance. At the same time, the government will transform development policy. Foreign, climate and trade policy must move in the same direction as development policy. Increased emphasis will be placed on geographical and thematic concentration and greater emphasis on the results achieved. A successful development policy must be measured primarily in terms of what is achieved by real development. Democracy, the rule of law and human rights will be central to the government's foreign and development policy. In particular, the government will give priority to the education of girls. A global world has made impressive progress in achieving the UN's Millennium Goals. Several years before the deadline, several targets have already been achieved, but not all. As it appears today, primary education will not be available to all by 2015. Positive developments until 2008 have slowed down. Girls' access to education has improved, but it's far ahead. Targeted efforts are needed to ensure equal opportunities for girls in many parts of the world. The government will give priority to this work. In our globalized world, everything that happens around us will affect us. The tragic situation in Syria gives us daily reminders. No one can stand on the side and claim to be untouched, even if Syria and other conflict areas are far from Norway. This concerns us in different ways and not least as a fellow human being. Humanitarian aid for internally displaced persons, refugees and neighbouring countries is an important instrument. The Government will develop a strong and modern defence with the ability to solve national tasks and contribute effectively to allied and international cooperation for security and peace. The Government will base its policy on binding international cooperation. Norway shall be an active contributor to the United Nations, NATO and other international organisations. Norway’s main interest and value communities will continue to be the Atlantic, European and Nordic regions. The Government will strengthen its efforts to safeguard Norwegian interests vis-à-vis the EU. The EEA Agreement, and the other agreements with the EU, will form the framework for European policy. Nordgebietpolitik shall build up under activity and settlement in the north. Action on industrial development and infrastructure development is becoming important instruments. Norwegian interests shall be safeguarded through a clear national presence and on the basis of the law of the sea. The government will further develop cooperation with Russia and the other polar states. The government will work for the sustainable management of natural resources in the north. Preparedness in the field of environmental protection, search and rescue shall be strengthened. There's a lot that's good in Norwegian society. The government will build on this. In areas where government will implement reforms, it is to reinforce the good aspects of Norwegian society and to preserve the values of our society based on. The government will focus on step-by-step reforms. Reforms will also be marked by the fact that there is a new political majority with different political values and priorities. In particular, the government will focus more on the generational perspective of policy, increased confidence in citizens and the strengthening of the social security network. The government will use to a greater extent the large values that have acquired our society from the petroleum industry in a better way. We need to be able to use this unique opportunity to create lasting values for our society and for future generations. Therefore, the government will invest more in infrastructure, knowledge, environmental technologies and strengthen the competitiveness of jobs in continental industries. The framework conditions for creating new jobs should be improved. The government will rely more on confidence in its policy. Trust that individuals make reasonable choices, so that you don't have to regulate that much. Trust that elected representatives will do the best for their community so that they can gain greater power and responsibility. Trust that culture and volunteering evolve to the best of society on their own premises, so that they do not become instruments of government. Trust that the families come up with good solutions for themselves and their over the kitchen table, so we don't have to control so much in detail. Trust that private and volunteers in child protection, health, rehabilitation, preparedness and much more have good intentions so that we can use all good forces in common effort to get a better society. Norway is a small country. Many forces and large resources will go to play if we make policy a struggle between the public, voluntary and private sectors, where only one of them can win. All sectors have much to contribute. If we are able to show mutual trust and play each other good, we can achieve great things together – even if we are a small country. The government will strengthen the social security network on a broad front. There's still too many that fall through. In particular, there are those who have complex needs and need services from different parts of government. They experience an offer that is fragmented and uncoordinated. Specific challenges exist in areas of large individual differences among users. This applies, inter alia, to: those with mental health problems, those in need of drug treatment, rehabilitation, child protection and adults with reading and writing difficulties. For many of these users, a more varied offer, with greater freedom of choice, could help much more. In recent years, a number of institutions that have previously contributed to a variety of treatment services have been closed down. The government will increase freedom of choice and contribute to a more varied offer. It will help improve the diversity of users. Thus, the policy perspective on generation, increased confidence in citizens and the strengthening of the social security network will shape many of the government's reforms. The government will manage the majority in common with the Left and Christian People's Party of the Biggest. The government also wants a good relationship with the other parties. The parliamentary situation suggests that the work in Stortinget will have renewed interest. The political processes are going to be more open. Consultations between the committees with organisations will in turn be able to lead to substantive changes. Several decisions will be moved into the public space. This is good for our democracy. The comprehensive agreement between the cooperation parties is new in our parliamentary tradition. This cooperation must find its practical form in the time to come. The Government shall contribute constructively to this. The government will also invite wide-ranging settlements where it is important to ensure a stable majority behind important, long-term solutions for Norwegian society. An example of this will be the municipal reform that the government has said we will implement. The government has set high targets. The government goes to work on humility and certainty about the responsibility that comes with the task. The goal is a society, and a world, that has opportunities for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-18.ana.ud982e489	The President will propose that the Government's statement be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-18.ana.ud982e505	On this matter, the President would point out that the reason why the Storting must take this proposition for consideration without prior committee proceedings is that the Enlarged Committee has not been able to appoint the Permanent Committees of the Storting until today. The proposed allocation in the proposal must be adopted by the Stortinget before the weekend, as it is linked to the TV action for 2013. Consequently, the case is dealt with in accordance with point (c) of the second paragraph of Section 39 of the Stortinge Rules of Procedure. No one has asked for the floor. Case No. 2 is added to the vote. As far as the assembly is grouped – I can't see a lot of vacant spaces other than those to be available – we don't want to call in voting. I hope no one protests against it. – Then it does not seem to be the case, and we go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-18.ana.ud982e523	The proposal for a decision in Prop shall be put to the vote. 208 S for 2012–2013. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-18.ana.ud982e587	The report is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber, and the President refers only to the number of cases and proposals for decisions. State budget 2014 Taxes and charges – legislative changes (Prop. [[6]] [[7]] [[8]] 1 LS National Budget 2014 (Report. [[2013-2014]] St. 1
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-18.ana.ud982e602	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
