ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e20	The called alternate of the Akershu County, Are Health, has taken the seat. The representative, Mr Knag Fylkesnes, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e28	On behalf of the representative Audun Lysbakken and myself, I would like to make a proposal on a non-characteristic children's ball.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e33	The representative Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e36	On behalf of Snorre Serigstad Valen, Karin Andersen, Bård Vegar Solhjell and myself, I have the honour of promoting a proposal to phase out investments in fossil energy in the state pension fund abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e41	The representative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before we launch the first oral question procedure in this magnificence period, the President will briefly mention the basic rules for this form of question. These are included in Section 72 of Storting’s Rules of Procedure. It states that a representative may ask one main question, which shall be limited to 2 minutes. The response of the current member of government, today the Prime Minister, is also limited to two minutes. Then the query may follow up with a follow-up question of up to one minute, and the answer shall also be up to 1 minute. The President can open up follow-up questions on the same theme from someone other than the one who asked the main question, and he will, of course, do that. The time limit is also up to 1 minute for both questions and answers. What the President cannot promise, however, is that all parties who wish to do so are free of any question of follow-up to all the main questions. A new parliamentary situation with significantly more stakeholders among the opposition parties suggests that the number of follow-up questions needs to be limited if we are to achieve a reasonable distribution of both the main issues and the follow-up issues and nevertheless keep us within a proper time frame for the resolution of the oral Question Time. Nevertheless, the President can rest assured – since the parties have probably had a certain planning of what we also call the spontaneous questioning session – that he will allow one extra follow-up question from the main questioning party. This is in line with the practice we have had in the past. The number of additional follow-up questions to be addressed will be assessed on an ongoing basis. On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to begin the oral questioning process.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e71	The first main question is from the representative Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e74	A responsible economic policy is a prerequisite for ensuring jobs and people's safety in everyday life. The new government takes over the management of a Norway where things are going well; unemployment is low, and employment is high. It has not come about by itself, nor is it obvious that it continues. This was also a very central theme in the election campaign, and then not least the Right was critical of the use of oil money. In the big economic debate at the NRK in the election campaign, Erna Solberg said that the red-green government is spending the money too quickly. Not only was too much money spent too quickly under the red-green government, but the money was also used incorrectly. The right criticised the red-green government, among other things. to have used less than two out of ten new oil crowns to stimulate sustainable growth in the mainland economy. The left impression was that the Right would spend less money, slower and in another way. Now we see that LO, NHO and Norwegian industry are warning against increased use of money for the sake of competitive business. With this backcloth, there were enough people who were a little surprised when you could read in Today's Business earlier this week that the government actually adds up to spending more oil money for next year. We see that in many areas, such as tolls, equity requirements for young people looking for housing and health, there is a very large distance between what the Right Party said in the election campaign, and what they say after they have formed a government. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore: can she ensure that in such a central policy area as oil money use, there will be a greater link between what was said in the election campaign and what would be done after the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e87	It was with a little amazement I listened to the argument. I don't think there were so many people who realized that the Workers' Party perceived, through the election campaign, that we thought we were going to conduct a responsible economic policy. But I am pleased that this recognition is gradually incorporated into the representatives of the Workers' Party. We are going to conduct a responsible economic policy, and we are going to do what has been our main criticism of what the red-green government did: spend more money on investing in growth promotions through the budget – what was the background to and part of the whole compromise when we made the rule of action. That's why we're going to spend more money on our education system and on research. We're going to spend more money on infrastructure in the years to come. We're going to follow up on what we've said in the platform about investing in what's growth-promoting, even in making changes to the tax regime. It's going to mean that we have an economic policy that is good in the short term, but that does not least ensure that we build this country in the long term, so that we are able to give our future generations a country that has growth potential. It's been the commitment we've been talking about in the election campaign, and we're going to keep it in every budget in the years to come. We will also return to economic policy on Friday, when the framework conditions are presented, with the actual priorities of the changes we have made. But I want to say, yes, we're taking over a country that's good, but that also has some weaknesses. Unemployment has increased in the last year, and growth has decreased in the last year. Fortunately, there is a certain change in the international economy that has small spurs for better development. But we have to be careful, and we also have to be careful about economic policy, because it is far from certain that the winds are blowing in the right direction in the years to come, after a period when Norway has used money in the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e98	The President will open six follow-up questions – first Helga Pedersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e101	I thank you for your answer. I do not expect the Prime Minister today to present the budget figures to be presented on Friday, but my question was whether the Prime Minister is on the analysis she had in the election campaign. It is the economy – not just the size of the oil fund – that needs to dimension the use of oil money. In the extension of what we have now talked about, both the Right Party and the Advance Party expressed concern about Norway's oil dependence in the election campaign. The progress party believed that we had made ourselves dependent on the revenues from oil and gas, and Erna Solberg himself said that after eight years with Jens Stoltenberg, the legacy is increased oil dependence. There had been too much use of oil money, and it was linked to the concept of ‘oil dependence’. Does the Prime Minister still believe that using less oil money will make Norway less oil dependent, while increasing oil money usage will make Norway more oil dependent?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e112	I hear that the Labour Party has tried to retell the story of what we have said in the election campaign. I think they should end with that. We've spent about the same amount of money as the previous government in the last few years in our alternative budgets, but we haven't spent them the same way. We have not accused the government of spending too much money, but of spending the money incorrectly. Now I think the Labour Party must stop starting a story of what were the arguments of other parties. They have used the money incorrectly. That means we've become more oil dependent. It is not because of the use of money that we have become more oil dependent, but because of the misuse of money. We have invested too little in research, and we have given too poor framework conditions to Norwegian business. It is the slow growth force that must be lifted in other parts of Norwegian business in the years to come. We intend to use oil money as we agreed in 2001, which is to make sure that it increases the growth capacity of other parts of the economy, so that our children inherit a society that is not only oil-funded but also has growth potential for the future. There the previous government failed – we intend to do that differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e121	Jonas Gahr Støre – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e124	We are waiting for the big economic debate on Friday – I look forward to it. However, I would like to ask the Prime Minister a question relating to the impact of the budget, because it is one of the most important instruments we have as a government, and as a big deal when we adopt it. In a blog post entitled ‘Small differences are good’ from 2010, Erna Solberg writes: ‘Norway is a society of small differences; it’s a good thing we have to work to take care of. There is no guarantee that this will happen in the future. Several international studies have pointed to a trend in globalisation that makes less differences between countries, but where differences are increasing among citizens in each country — especially in Europe. We can get a development that reminds us more of the American, where wealth growth is extremely unevenly distributed." Does the Prime Minister still believe that small differences are a good thing, and how does she intend to use the State budget to help prevent differences from increasing in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e138	Yeah, I mean, small differences are a good thing. I believe that the proximity and similarity of Norwegian society is actually one of our competitive advantages. I believe it is important that we build trust and cohesion so that we do not experience that the differences become too large. Our biggest challenge in terms of differences is between those who are out of work and those who are in it. All those people who really feel that they could contribute, but who can't contribute, either because we haven't been good enough to equip them with skills that enable them to contribute, or because we haven't been able to organize well enough in the workplace. It's an important priority that we're going to work on: getting more people to participate. The second challenge is that when you grow up in a society where you can't participate in this educational community in a good way, either because you have mental problems or because your parents have problems that in turn cause you problems, yes, it gives you a poor starting point to participate. There are important discussions, and it is also important priorities for this government to ensure that our safety net is improved also for the most vulnerable groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e147	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e151	In order to complement the main issue, we had a hearing with LO yesterday in the Financial Committee. There, LO could say that the employment rate for them between 25 and 54 years now is 3 pst. lower than before the financial crisis. – It’s a slightly different picture than the one the representative Helga Pedersen presented. So to this with oil money usage. I am not of those who believe that the Workers' Party alone has the power to define just where that chalk line should go, but there are nevertheless some interesting assessments that are given from several teams. The central bank manager said something that one should rather go from 4 pst. to 3 pst. The fund manager says that the expected return in the future is likely to be close to 3 pst. than 4 pst. My question to the Prime Minister is, how does she reflect on these assessments from the above?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e160	It is important to ask the basic question: is the pension fund a fund that we are to use permanently the return of, or is it a fund that we are in a way to risk building up in the future – so spend more money? That's a little bit of the reasoning from the governor about focusing on the returns. If we had gone up to 4 pst, we would have used more than the return. That means that at least in the period when we hadn't put more money into the fund, we would have gone down. I am concerned that we must always pursue a responsible economic policy. The most important thing we do is build the growth force in the Norwegian economy with the money we take in. So, of course, economic policy works a little differently, depending on the instruments you have. If you stimulate more for saving, it is less pressurised, but it can provide more investment in the future, for example. But we're concerned that we have to make sure that we don't spend more money than what is both long-term and sustainable and what is short-term possible to provide without creating difficult conditions in the economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e167	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e170	Norwegian industry is an important part of the Norwegian economy. In the Sundvolden platform, the government writes: ‘The government will pursue a policy that will increase the competitiveness of industry and thus enable it to create greater values.’ The group leader in Orkla, Åge Korsvold, warns today's business against shifting and weakening customs protection and the existing RAC scheme, because it will affect agriculture and not least the food industry. The consequence may be that Orkla will move the enterprise to the rest of the world. The food industry produces 170 billion. kr, has more than approx. 50 000 jobs and is the industry that has actually grown in both the number of enterprises, production value, value added, investment – larger than industry in recent years. So my question is, is the Prime Minister disagreed with Orkla Chief Adopting Cross-violence's view of customs protection, or will the government work to strengthen import protection to ensure further growth in the food industry in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e184	Customs protection is an important part of agricultural policy in Norway and will be an important part of it. Nevertheless, there is a need to look at changes in some customs areas. We have a customs system that is absolutely mature for revision in several areas. So I read the whole article, and it was pretty interesting, because what you said was that you didn't have to set customs rates unilaterally. Among other things, it was important to reduce the final product duty, to also reduce the duty on raw materials, so that the food industry could import more at a lower price in order to be competitive with the other countries. The main challenge for the Norwegian food industry is in the same way the main challenge we face for too many other industries in Norway. Wage levels, cost levels are much higher than in comparable countries. We must respond to that: we must protect that we have a good agricultural policy in the years to come where agriculture will develop and where customs protection remains. But we also need to focus on becoming more competitive in all the other areas, which means that the cost level is falling in order to make the food industry more competitive against competition elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e193	Audun Lighthouse – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e196	Before the elections, our new Prime Minister was very well aware that an increasing two-tiered Norwegian economy in an oil sector where there is a very fast pace and a continental economy that is lagging behind is a major challenge for Norway. I had the pleasure of hearing the Prime Minister's speech at the Zero Climate Conference yesterday, and noticed that she there did not use the opportunity to give any signals about what the government would do to reduce Norway's oil dependence. I would therefore like to give the Prime Minister a new chance to say something about it. We know that the mainland industry is dependent on being able to compete for labour, competence, depending on the fact that the pressure on the krone price is not too high and dependent on a government that facilitates development elsewhere than in the oil sector. Will the Prime Minister take the initiative to reduce oil dependence by slowing down oil investment and the rate of future extraction?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e205	The representative Lightbakken is quite right that our election campaign was also a lot about focusing on the two-way division of the Norwegian economy. But we were also exemplaryly clear, I think, throughout the election campaign, that our answer was not that we should reduce the oil and gas business in Norway, but that we should improve the competitive conditions of the other parts of Norwegian business – which I also talked about at the Zero conference yesterday, when I talked about environmental technology being an important part of our competitiveness in the years to come. Therefore, as a starting point, this government has a different return system, which provides more money from the Environmental Technology Fund to lift Norwegian companies that are not oil and gas-related further into a more environmentally friendly direction and which will contribute to their improved competitiveness. Yesterday I registered that most of the comments after my speech yesterday expressed disappointment that it was almost like the red-green government. I don't know if that's the disappointment that Lysbaken also has, that there wasn't such a big difference between us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e212	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e215	It's the first time the Storting is gathered after the terrible event in the vicinity of Årdal. Three people were killed, and our thoughts go to community, the relatives, and those who have lost their loved ones. Of course, we don't know the whole picture and all the details of this case, and so we have to be careful to draw conclusions, but I see that Commissioner Humlegård is already clear that it took too long before the police were in place, and the Minister of Justice had a press point yesterday where he went a long way in suggesting the same thing. There is more to a general rule than an exception to the fact that ambulances and fire trucks are on the scene before the police, and in this specific case, much may indicate that the ambulance was in place one hour before the police arrived at the scene. When the Gjørv Commission presented its report last autumn, they concluded that the police response time is too long. With this tragic case, we get a new reminder that we are forced to prioritize the response time. I don't want to criticize either etaters or individuals, but I want to ask a basic question about the police response time. My question to the Prime Minister is whether it is now time to demand a response time for the police in line with what we have for the emergency services within the fire and ambulance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e224	Firstly, I would say that this was a tragic accident. It should never have happened. Unfortunately, it has happened, and the most important thing we do is to learn from what has happened around it, both in terms of how we handle and place asylum seekers, what mental assistance we have for them, how we provide security around people who can be mentally unstable, but also – naturally – in terms of police response capabilities and how fast things happen. In order to learn from this, we should also take time to take a good look at what decisions were taken, because here is a combination of which way you chose to drive and how far away the police patrol was at the time. To the specific question asked by Hareide, I must say that I believe this is a natural discussion in the context of the police analysis: Should we make demands for response time, and in that case what requirements should we make? But it's very important, because it also means that we have to make sure that there are enough resources in the police in the years to come. In the platform of the Right-wing-Fremskrit party government, we have said that we need to increase police staff, and of course we also need to make sure that the increased police crew means that we get faster response capabilities. We are far from being in the situation that we can both deal with the crime scene and the preparedness jobs that the police are going to do with the manning and the resource situation that the police have as of today. Therefore, it is still necessary to step up those resources. Only when we have enough resources can we be sure that we can respond quickly enough. I believe that response time is an important element in how we should dimension our police services in the years to come. An important reason for this is that, every time we have discussed it, we have also been concerned that there should be close police with knowledge of the areas of the reform ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e234	I want to thank you for your answer. I am pleased with the signals that the Prime Minister gives, that this is a question that it is natural to look at when we now have a police analysis on the table. In the analysis, one proposes to reduce significantly both police districts and the number of officers’ offices. I want to say there's no fasit. The important thing for the Christian People's Party is that we have a new reform that ensures a stronger neighbourhood police force that is in place when it happens and where it happens. I think the response time will of course be different in different parts of the country, but we know that different emergency situations have this. My question is therefore so simple, although I understand that the government has not yet concluded: When this matter comes to Stortinget, will the police's response time be part of the assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e241	I have to admit that there is much that this government has not concluded on. The consultation period for the police analysis itself expired at the beginning of October, and the real work on it has not begun. We've been in government for three weeks, so I can't promise what's going to be the assessments as it goes. But it's natural to discuss how in the future we're going to get a police force that has operational capacity in response. It is important to say that it is the operational capacity of the response that is important. It is often seen as synonymous with having lumni offices or anywhere else. There are often offices that are open a few hours a day, and that run community service more than they do police service. What we need is actually the capacity that's out on wheels, that can quickly get to the place, and it must be a priority through the work that's to be done with the police analysis. I believe that response time is among the design requirements that need to be discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e246	It opens for four follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e249	If it doesn't, we can at least promise that it will be lifted into the Storting, so that response time will be discussed. The police have been through turbulent years, and there has been a lot of searchlights and much talk about reorganization. That's why it's important that we, as politicians, make the decisions that are needed to identify how we want the police to be dimensioned for the future. For the Christian People's Party, it is important that we have a police force that can actively prevent, that can be present and control everyday crime, and that can also be there when serious incidents occur. That is why I agree with the Prime Minister in her analysis of what is happening to operational forces that are important. But I want to challenge the Prime Minister for what she wants to focus on when she wants to dimension the police for the future. When the police are so clear that they want to change, is it that this matter will come to the Stortinget already in the spring?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e260	Since I just said that we have not really started working on this, it is difficult for me to conclude bombastically whether this is coming to spring. I think we should have an ambition to get this work done quickly. We have been asking for a police study from the Right for many years. We still think there might be some dimensions that were not well-lit in the analysis that was made. We should, among other things, Look more at what kind of crime scene we'll meet in the future. We know that we have a crime scene that's going to move more into cyberspace. We know that we're going to have more pressure from outside. But it's very important to me that we at the same time make sure to prevent this at home. Working actively in relation to young people entering a criminal racetrack saves our society millions and billions of years. Therefore, in view of the new threats, we must not lose sight of the old ones, namely that any youth who is stopped from getting a criminal career is a net gain for the youth itself, the family and not least for the rest of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e265	Hadia Tajik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e268	It is too early, as the Prime Minister says, to draw conclusions based on the tragedy in Årdal, so there has to be a waiting to do. But the event has raised some purely fundamental questions about how one wants a crisis to be managed. For response time is not least about good coordination, and it is about acting quickly on the messages one gets. At the NRK Evening News on Saturday we could hear that the pilot project on common emergency numbers in the Drama has been dropped. It is a pilot project that will be able to provide information on the practicality of having a common emergency number. There are such things that it is difficult to get through desktop work. I am concerned that the closure of the pilot project will also mean that the work to get a common emergency number has been put on ice. There is reason to believe that it will be unfortunate for the emergency work. The question is, how has the Prime Minister intended to obtain the practical information that a pilot can provide, and what progress has been made on a common emergency number?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e275	I believe that the important thing is that we go through the experience we have gained from the Drammen so far. We need to go through other experiences from other countries to see how the common emergency number works. There are very many concerns messages, especially from the health sector, related to the common emergency number. It has been about the fact that today our AMK headquarters are working very well. There are qualified personnel who can guide from the moment the phone comes, which can help. We know that it's necessary. We know that when people get heart attacks, it's helping the first few minutes that are necessary to get things done quickly enough so that the present person can get help with what's happening. We have to take seriously the challenge that comes from the health sector of the emergencies that most of us will experience, which are the emergencies when someone around us becomes acutely ill and needs help. There has been one of the reasons why we have to look again at how this can be organized. We have in Norway a good AMK system for health. We have to make sure that we do not lose it on the way into an emergency number system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e282	Live Signe Navarsete – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e285	The tragic event in Årdal has shaken an entire nation. We cannot draw conclusions today on that basis. We can give our support to those who are very hurting in my neighboring country, home in Sogn. But there are some questions that have been said here, not least associated with response time. This patrol happened to be in Laerdal. It could have been in Flåm, in Aurland. That would have meant that the response time had increased further. This is just one example, because there are many other situations that are congruent. We also know that the police response time is nearly twice as high in scattered built strips as it is in urban areas. We are concerned that everyone should know security. Then my question is: Will the Prime Minister assess a geographically differentiated response time when working with the police analysis, which also takes heights because there are large distances in many parts of this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e292	If we adopt response time, geographical differentiation is absolutely necessary. I don't think we can operate with the same distances and expected response time in central strokes as we do in the districts. But I think the key to response time is police resources. They are the ones who are going to sit in the car and the equipment they have, which we actually have to look at. One of the things we have to start with is to analyze: what do we have of resources and people in terms of response time today? One thing is that we should have an expectation of what the police can deliver based on the resources they have. If we set response time that is unrealistic in relation to the resource situation, we need to have an escalation in how the resource situation can improve. What you could say was a hell, was that this time it didn't happen two accidents at once. We know that people around the country are vulnerable. If something happens in one part of a district, it will be very difficult to deal with a difficult situation elsewhere – so big are these areas in the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e298	Iselin Nybø – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e301	As many have been involved, the police are one of the emergencies. When something happens, people expect you to get help relatively quickly, and right where you are when something happens. That's why it has to be important, when talking about response time, to say that this is about two things, both the time the police spend before they move out, and the time it takes for people to get help where the event is. So my question to the Prime Minister is: In the context of the police analysis, does the Prime Minister see the importance of highlighting both of these things, both the call for call-out – that is, when the call is to be made – and the time it takes for people to get help, so that people can feel confident that the help comes when they need it and where they need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e306	I think that we're going to define a response time, of course it has to contain both of these elements: how fast you can get off farms to the place and how fast you can give help. Then it's important to say that with today's police resource situation, the expectations of us in political life and of the population are more than the police are able to deliver. That means that we also have to give priority to what expectations to reach first. The serious incidents and the dangerous, acute situations shall always be of priority. But there are, of course, many other expectations we're going to have ambitions to achieve, but it's going to require both reorganisation, better management and resources in the years to come to achieve it. We need better investment in technology and communications equipment. We need better exercises – we know that the police are involved in sharp missions. So there are many challenges that we have to face in a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e311	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e314	My main question to the Prime Minister is related to the same matter. This is a theme that concerns everyone. That people should know security, no matter where they live, is one of the most important things that politicians are responsible for. People should know that if anything happens, don't help be far away, whether it's fire, health or police services. We have seen that there have been several tragic events, not least in the part of the country from which I come. The coincidence for those events is that the police have been the last to come to the place regardless of the type of incident it has been. We shouldn't draw conclusions today, many have said. I'm in it. But this kind of event requires that we reflect around it and learn from them, and that we discuss how we can improve the security of those who live around the country. We're a couple of people who said the police were late here. The checks will show you what failed. But this is just one of many events that show that the police are coming last, and too late for the city. The biggest challenge lies outside the big cities. There has been a police analysis that puts in place a large amount of centralisation of police resources. It is thorough in some areas, while calling for measures to improve efficiency — bringing together large units of expertise and strengthening research into serious crime. There's a question of how this compares to people being safe where they live. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister: does she think that fewer police in the districts will make the police arrive more quickly at emergency places where crime is taking place? Because there could have been an expression from the Länsmannskontoret in Årdal, which was only 20 minutes away, on the event in Årdal recently.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e323	Firstly, I would like to agree with the representative of Navarsete that it is very important that we take the time to reflect on what has happened and what had been possible to do differently. This applies to all the floors that have been involved. Of course, this also applies to how we organise the area of asylum on these issues. There's a lot of questions. What I think is important is that we don't rush in with conclusions based on one incident and have a hard work right now, so that the work will stop later. In 2004, as a conclusion to the previous bus and tram killing, we made an action plan for example. for mental health. It had a number of follow-up points, working with asylum seekers, more resources and other. It seemed that as time went by, it faded – the effort became a little calmer in that area. I think it's very important that we remind ourselves that we're going to take care of this all the way. So the question is the police analysis. It provides for a centralisation of the administrative levels. I have repeatedly spoken skeptically of such a strong centralization. I have said that it is important that we have the preventive perspective with us, that we have the presence of the police, but it is important to ensure that we have operational capacity. It's a bit of a false certainty to think that having a loner's office that does not have the capacity to do so in a situation constitutes the security you need. What you need is the police with a callout, and so we have to go through the dimensioning for that. It may well have a more centralised system at the top, by having more present police on wheels outside, but these are very important demands that we politicians have to make in such a reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e330	I thank you for your answer. It didn't quite answer the question of how to secure a better and shorter response time where people live, because a patrol can be very many kilometers or many miles away. If what happened in Årdal had happened in the Oslo area, the distance would be approx. from Oslo to Sarpsborg, just to put a little bit of perspective on what distances we're talking about. He could be even bigger if that patrol had been in another place in his area. In my supplementary questions to the previous main questions, I link them up to the district structure. It was said in the answer that one will increase the number of policemen, and the goal is to increase it from one to two per thousand inhabitants. Will the Prime Minister ensure that that distribution benefits the whole country, so that one can get shorter distances and more police also in the pig-grown areas that are currently far too far away from his police?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e337	Yes, in the years to come it will also be that we are going to increase police resources in District Norway, but the key two policemen per thousand inhabitants are probably not going to be implemented in all offices around. It also involves the specialised functions related to Kripos and other major key elements, so we cannot take the target set by the Stortinget and transfer it to each and every police district or area. We do not want to do that when we have to provide good capacity for the more centralised functions at the same time — for example. we shall ensure that we bring down environmental crime, we shall ensure that we can bring down financial crime, we shall ensure that we have the capacity to deal with the major killing cases – where we can collect resources. It's also part of the measure that's at stake, and so we have ambitions to achieve faster than what's been the case so far. The measure has been there, but it has gone wrong in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e342	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Jenny Klinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e345	First, I would like to stress that the local police have many other important tasks in addition to preparedness and expression, which are also important in order to avoid crime and prevent killing. The concept of wheel police is a good one. It's very important when it's first clicked. The question is where these wheels scroll, and the distances between the patrols. New police working time destinations require 18 police officers to be prepared for daily duty and patrols. Of course, it takes a lot of resources. There is a cross-political agreement that one should have two police officers per thousand inhabitants by 2020. Will the Prime Minister ensure that this increase is measured not only at country level but also at police and county level, thus ensuring that there is a possibility of wheel police across the country? The core question is: will the distances between the operative police and what is happening urgently be reduced by the grip of the new government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e350	This government is elected on a platform where we have said that we will strengthen the police in the years to come, and we will. We cannot transfer the target number of two police officers per thousand to all police districts downwards – that has never been the premise of the Stortinget. In that case, it would mean a significantly greater ambition, because we're going to have these central parts up and act as part of the entire bet. But I think that the representative Klinge will see that the new government is going to have a more ambitious investment in the years ahead than we have had in the last few years, so that we get closer to the goal of two policemen per thousand inhabitants – instead of getting away from that goal, as it has been in the last few years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e356	Hadia Tajik – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e359	Coordination and coordination are important in terms of response time and operational capacity for preparedness. It is important in the emergency situation, but not least it is important politically. The Prime Minister has taken the initiative to have an emergency element in the Prime Minister's office. It is anchored in the government platform, and the Prime Minister himself has raised it as important. From the outside, however, it is a little unclear how it should work in practice. How has the Prime Minister, for example, Would you like to avoid the element being an additional bureaucratic element in a system that must be quick and strict? Is it such that the responsibilities of the element overlap with the responsibility of the Minister of Justice and Emergency? What decision authorisation has this item? What kind of portfolio does this item have? Is it the case that the Minister of Justice and Security reports on the emergency element, and what does that mean for his formal and constitutional responsibilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e364	The President would remind you that you should stick to the main question, but give the floor to Prime Minister Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e367	We are still working on the question of exactly how it is to be done, and who, if any, is going to constitute this element or this strengthening of the Prime Minister's office, but I would like to say right away that it is not that the Minister of Justice and Security reports to bureaucrats or employees at the Prime Minister's office. The Minister of Justice and Security reports to the Stortinget and to the Government and the Prime Minister. It's 'chain of command' and it's always going to be that. What is to be strengthened in the Prime Minister's office is the ability of the Prime Minister to oversee preparedness development and to make better arrangements for decisions taken by the government. Constitutional responsibility, driving responsibility and operational responsibility lie within the established existing structures, but we believe that the Prime Minister's office needs to be strengthened in these areas. We saw that after July 22nd. We see that in the end, all responsibility ends up in the Prime Minister's office – with the assurance that the government has handled the tasks well enough, and that means having the resources to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e372	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e375	I would first like to say that I agree with the Prime Minister that measuring two policemen per thousand inhabitants in each and every police district or county would be violent. I come from an area where there would hardly have been people at work at all if one were to follow that goal slavishly. The most important thing is to get a visible and present local police force. But I would also recommend the Prime Minister – when she sees the involvement in the Stortinget – to try to achieve a broad reform when the police analysis is to be followed up in the Stortinget. If one looks at the previous reform that Stortinget adopted not so many years ago, the goal was to get a more visible police and more policemen to work, but efficiency did not necessarily lead to it. I also think the Prime Minister should bring it with me. To response time: both the ambulance service and the fire service have response time. For the ambulance service, the objective is to have 90 pst in pig-grown areas. The population is reached within 25 minutes, but Stortinget has said that this is not a requirement, but a recommendation. Why is it that it is more difficult for the police than for the ambulance and fire services to set such a type of response time?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e382	I don't know if it's any harder, we just haven't come to that conclusion yet, because we haven't gotten that far in the work. I have said that we are going to come back to the discussion about response time, whether or not we are going to implement it, under what conditions, but it is clear that it has something to do with how the resources are allocated. If one takes the fire service as an example: it is a municipal service, it is present in each municipality. It is a municipal responsibility and is therefore closer than almost all other emergency situations. That's why it's very good that we have a very well-trained fire service, which often also does things that ambulance staff will do later. Ambulances are often also linked to the fire service in the coordinated work. But this is primarily a matter of resources, I think, to be sure that we can set that kind of response time. We cannot set a response time without monitoring that the resources are there, that the police can meet there. This is the police analysis and the further work needs to be done. I would like a broad settlement – we'll see how it goes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e389	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e392	First, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Prime Minister will not conclude – after the terrible killings that happened in the West. It has to be thought through what you can do. In the case of the police, response time is important. It's not necessarily just about minutes, but about people feeling the police are coming when it's bad. And sometimes when it's at worst, it's about violence in close relationships. Unfortunately, this is happening all over the country. It is now a debate on whether we have set too many targets for the police – we may well have. But one of the objectives is that people who experience violence in close relationships, even where there are children, should be an important and priority task for the police, and that we should investigate whether the police are doing this job when it's at worst for a lot of people where they should be safest. Can the Prime Minister assure that the objective in this particular area will not go away when the police reform is to be implemented?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e399	I think it is a little early to demand an answer to an analysis and a work that we are going to do, and as I have just said, we have not started in the government college as such. It was less than a month since the hearing period for the hearing sessions was over. I want to stress that the issue of violence in close relationships is important. It is important for this government to ensure police enforcement in this area. In particular, it is important to focus on this when children are involved — whether this is in the current target structure. We have enough ambition to create a simpler target structure for the police – not least not counting activity, i.e. put labels on some policemen to work on it and that, but rather look at the results. It will in the years that will be an important change in the way we govern the public sector. We have to be concerned about what results we achieve, not what activity is being carried out. This is also important in terms of how we work with the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e410	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e414	In recent weeks, Europe has been characterised by revelations related to the monitoring of European citizens in general, but also by Heads of State. The approach of dictatorships towards neighbouring countries and cooperation partners is one of our expectations. We have a different kind of expectation of the relationship of democracies – that democratic rules should be mirrored between friends. The revelations that the United States has massively monitored European citizens in general, but also European Heads of State, have led to a significant deterioration in the atmosphere between Heads of State in the West. It is important that you have faith in your friends, that you have an interaction with your friends, and that you have rules for your interaction with your friends that increase your faith. Both European citizens in general and European Heads of State must be able to feel confident that there are some democratic rules in the field of inter-state relations as well. My question is, what has the Prime Minister done to make sure that this has not happened in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e423	Under the former government, there was dialogue with the US authorities about this. We have instructed our embassies in Washington to address these questions with the US authorities in order to identify what has happened, and whether Norway has been subjected to this kind of surveillance. Hopefully this dialog will start soon. So we've taken this up and asked for a meeting with the U.S. authorities. Then we have to look at what we get. It is interesting to note that many of the statements around the world are subsequently corrected. It turns out that some of these metadata have been collected by the country’s own authorities in the anti-terrorist work. I want to say that we should be very clear and clear that we do not accept that friends are monitoring us – we should not accept that unfriends are monitoring us, but I assume that it makes a little less impression that we are saying it to them. We should also be clear and clear that intelligence activities are legitimate. Defending the interests of the nation, ensuring that acts of terrorism are prevented, are also an obligation of a country. It is also an obligation to cooperate with other countries in order to obtain data that can prevent terrorist activities. The fact that there have been many terrorist attacks in recent years, both in the United States and in Europe, is because there have been intelligence activities. You have followed suspicions, you have followed the information you have received. It has averted – and it has given European citizens better security. This, I believe, is legitimate for countries to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e434	Of course, it's legitimate to do intelligence. Of course, it is legitimate to pursue terrorists with information control as well. But it is not as real to believe that Angela Merkel is the great terrorist in Europe that it is important to monitor to prevent acts of terrorism. The state also facilitates this type of monitoring, and it concerns us in the Left. The disclosures made in Spain show a pure collection – in line with what is to be collected under the Data Storage Directive. The Data Storage Directive provides an enormous opportunity to collect information in one place, which makes it very easy for foreign powers to acquire the information that we are accusing countries of today. My question to the Prime Minister is: Are you concerned that the Data Storage Directive provides for the monitoring of Norwegian citizens by foreign powers as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e441	I am not concerned about the monitoring by the authorities of other countries, as long as the data protection regulations that we agreed on in the context of the compromise here in Stortinget are implemented. Ensuring that these data cannot be extracted – other than based on the legal instruments we have introduced – prevents them from becoming available to others. There will be a violation of Norwegian law if other countries get this – a crime that should not occur. In that case, it will be those who have provided the information who have committed the crime. The information collected must therefore follow the data protection questions. Of course, information about people who are suspected of wanting to do something can be obtained at some point. Then we are back to this that it is legitimate to defend the interests of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e446	There will be two follow-up questions – first Ketil Kjeseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e449	At the initiative of the Left, the previous government set up its own data protection commission, such as: should look at possible measures and instruments to improve the follow-up and enforcement of legislation on privacy and cross-border surveillance in Norway. The Data Protection Commission issued its report in January 2009 and proposed a number of measures to improve the functioning of the data protection system in Norway, not least in the field of ICT. The problem is that the previous government very little followed up on the recommendations of the Data Protection Commission. The report was placed in the drawer – and has remained there. The government statement of the new government states that the government will conduct ‘an offensive ICT policy that takes privacy seriously’. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore – naturally – the following: Will the new government produce the Data Protection Commission report and make a new and independent assessment of the many good proposals made by the person who will strengthen the position of privacy and assess measures against cross-border surveillance in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e456	Yes, we will review the measures that have not been implemented and consider which measures should be implemented if appropriate. It's a completely natural part of the follow-up to our platform. We'll look at both the proposals that lie there, and the devices. Developments in these areas are fast-moving. That means that there will be new areas we have to look at. I think it's incredibly important that we keep thinking about how technology is evolving. Then it is important to have some general principles for how to ensure privacy. These include: if always to have traceability of data collected: who collects? Who's doing anything? So it's about being able to track down who's been inside and looking at something, and also about putting people in charge for doing it. It's about making sure to encrypt where it's necessary. Then we have to make sure that we have legal asylums when it comes to criminal issues, that is. who can extract and how to store it. There is a lot that needs to be done in the years to come in terms of privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e465	Snorre Serigstad Valen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e468	The Prime Minister states that friends do not monitor each other, almost as if there is something diminution in the fact that there are friends who have been monitoring heads of state. It shouldn't be, it's the opposite of what makes the case extra serious. I don't think anyone disagrees that intelligence is legitimate and important. That's what I think Edward Snowden thinks, and that's why he decided to announce that the formidable surveillance capacity that NSA has was used both for illegitimate surveillance of state leaders and attacks on many millions of people's private lives. From various representatives in the Right and Advance Party we have heard that Edward Snowden is a traitor and not a warner. So my question to the Prime Minister is, is Edward Snowden a warner or a traitor?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e477	I believe that when people who have signed taushets statements, publish large piles of material that can also be dangerous, they have crossed a line. I think there are warning mechanisms in the American society that Snowden could use to alert internally, to bring it up with their own congress representatives, to actually react that way rather than to publish it in the big community. Intelligence activities are also based on sources that are at risk of losing their lives if they are ‘blown’. That's why it's important that we be careful not to legitimize that people who have access to secret information can just call themselves alerts and go out. Had they tried the other ways, I would have been a little more impressed by Snowden's actions – and if he had been rejected then – but he has therefore chosen to go out in the big, open. I don't want to call him a traitor, but I don't want to say that he's an alert, because alerts should use the way the country's own authorities have, and the United States has the opportunity to notify you internally about that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e486	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e490	In the draft budget of the outgoing government, there was a proposal for a budget of 241 million. to extend the statutory right to children's playground. It is intended to ensure that those children who reach the age of 1 in September and October will also be able to have nursery places in their 1st year of age, and that we take an important step towards the goal of two kindergarten admissions per year – the next major promise of the kindergarten reform. The recent government has implemented a formidable uplift for the kindergarten sector. Nevertheless, we experienced repeatedly that the Right from Stortinget criticised the work with the kindergartens, and wanted it to go even faster, among others. in the direction of multiple recordings. I found a quote from the Daily Newspaper on 16 November last year where Højre’s spokesman Linda Hofstad Helleland said that the government “has failed all children born after 1 September”. She then promised, on behalf of the Right, that there would be a continuous admission into kindergartens, i.e. even more offensive than what has been our goal; first of all, to achieve two admissions a year. It was therefore with amazement that I read the Dagbladet yesterday, who felt that the promise of two babysittings this year was being dropped, and that the proposal to extend the statutory court would not be followed up in the government's additional proposal. I assume that the Prime Minister here and now can cancel this, as the opposite would be – in Right's own words – failing children born after 1 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e497	This was an attempt to free up what is coming on Friday in the budget. I refer you to Friday. It is common practice in the Storting that we do not comment on future budget proposals either positively or negatively in view of what it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e502	Of course – as the Prime Minister well knows – nothing prevents her from obtaining such information. That's why I think it's interesting if she chooses not to do it. But let me then follow up with a related question, which concerns the Prime Minister's ambitions for this sector in the future. The government platform says that the government will have ‘increased flexibility’ in the nursery reception, i.e. a far weaker formulation than what the Right has been talking about throughout the previous period, with continuous recording. I think it's alarming, because this government has talked a lot about executive power, and one would think the easiest thing about executive power is to get their own election vows down on paper. But at the point of kindergarten, it's a clear implementation trick we're dealing with so far. My question then is whether the Prime Minister has the ambition – as promised by the Right – to introduce continuous admission during the period, or at least to introduce two admissions into kindergartens during the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e509	I want to stress that our program does not imply that we have promised two recordings a year or so. That lookup with Linda Hofstad Helleland was linked to a program proposal, which was a recording that did not get a majority in the priorities of our national meeting. To say that we have election vows we do not honour when we have not given any election promises, I think it will be a little difficult. There will be many parties who have had the debate on political issues – which are not electoral promises. We are concerned that we should have a more flexible admission, and we are concerned that children should be offered kindergarten, but we have made a very clear priority that we want to improve the quality of kindergartens in the years to come. Then we have to start doing the things we've promised. One of the things the red-green government did not do as they had promised – not just for the next period, but actually before the last period – was to ensure equal treatment between public and private kindergartens. You wouldn't have given that priority, even if you had given a lot of those who run kindergartens, the hope that it would come. So sorting in the promises in the kindergarten sector might also start with the Light Hill.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e516	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Torgeira Knag Fylkesnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e519	The introduction of the maximum price has been a gift to young children’s parents in the country. One might almost regard it as a gigantic treasure for those who have little children. For a small children's family with children in a public nursery, the maximum price has resulted in $200,000 in reduced expenses, and even more for those who have children in private kindergartens. The maximum price has also led to a one-third reduction in the price of kindergartens. For a party that is concerned with the economy of people, and especially then perhaps the group of society that is most under pressure of time and economy, the question to the Prime Minister is whether the Prime Minister can guarantee that toddlers will not get an increase in the post in the coming year, and – since one has already said that this is very difficult to answer – tell whether one has plans to reduce the maximum price.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e526	It is true that the introduction of the maximum price was a tax relief for those who paid more than the maximum price before. When I had small children and this decision was first taken in Stortinget, it meant that at that time – with a government salary – I would receive NOK 25 000 lower costs a year, while my sister, who at that time was a lone parent and paid under the maximum price, received an increased price for kindergarten. That was actually the reality. The price was increased for those with the lowest incomes and the lower for those with the highest incomes. It's possible that it's SV's strategy, but that was the result of what they did at the time. We are concerned that there should still be reasonable and low prices related to the nursery provision, but we have also been concerned that we should ensure that those with the lowest income pay less. That's why one of the measures on the platform is that we're going to look at how we can make sure that we have a package aimed at poor families, who now, after the maximum price decision, experience paying more than what was done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e533	Rigmor Aasrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e536	The Prime Minister's reply to Audun Lysbakken was surprising, because the Right Programme says on page 10 that it is necessary to ensure that municipalities facilitate continuous admission into kindergartens. And as late as September 6th, the Progress Party wrote that "you should grant kindergarten rights to 1-year-olds with continuous kindergarten admissions". The representative of Hofstad Helleland has characterised today's system as an out-of-date scheme. Then is my question to the Prime Minister, who will not answer budgetary questions: What other and new solutions will the parents who have children of the current age get from the Right if you do not comply with the promises made in the programme and in the election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e543	What I said was that we didn't promise to have two recordings. We're going to make it possible for the municipalities to carry out a continuous recording. We're going to do that gradually over this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e548	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e552	I would like to commend the government for putting a great deal of work into it with regard to the lifting of competences for teachers. However, children’s daycare is also important. My question may be a little general, but what kind of ambitions does this government have in order to raise the quality of kindergartens too and ensure that you have good skills for those who work there? What are the ambitions of this government for the kindergarten sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e557	We have ambitions that we should raise the quality. Of course, some of it will be about lifting skills for those who work there. It is not least to ensure that in the years to come we have enough staff who have a pedagogical education. There is an important recruitment work that needs to be done to ensure that the quality is good. When we give teachers the highest level of competence, it's because it's perhaps the most obvious and powerful choice we've ever had. Working to raise education and knowledge among students is primarily about having good, competent teachers in classrooms – teachers who are able to develop the dynamics associated with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e564	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e567	The kindergarten reform has been a huge freedom of choice reform for all the country's young children's parents. The measurement of cash support against the smallest children, where we increased the amount of aid to NOK 5000, has also led many more in that phase to greater flexibility and freedom of choice in the transition from leave to work. The next step now – to get more freedom of choice at that stage – was to introduce two annual admissions. I have understood that there is uncertainty about it, so then my question to the Prime Minister is: What is the government's approach to giving increased flexibility and freedom of choice in the transition from leave to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e572	The development of kindergartens has been a common goal for a total expansion since a compromise was made in the spring of 1989. Then you've had to strengthen the tools to get it done during the period. This was done in the 1990s, and it was done again in the 2000s by the maximum price and ambition for full child care coverage in the kindergarten agreement. I fully agree that having a kindergarten offer is an important freedom reform. It is also an important safety reform for parents because many other forms of care are perceived as slightly random and slightly difficult to organise. There is no reason to say that child care reform has not been important and that it has been a successful measure. Then it's important to make sure that families get the freedom of choice by deciding a little bit more for themselves. So we're going to give you, for example: freedom of choice by making changes in the distribution of maternity leave. We're making it easier for those groups that today don't feel able to take out the entire maternity leave for their children, because it's not possible with the kind of pattern the families have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e581	We go to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e584	Prime Minister Solberg assumed responsibility for the management of the country in a situation where the United Nations has repeatedly designated Norway as the world’s best country to live in. The main reason for this is, of course, that, despite having an export-dependent economy, we have low unemployment in a situation where there are major economic challenges around us in our main export markets. The real heroes in that story are, of course, those who go to work in their office every day, in school, in the health sector, in private companies or in their own businesses. It's the heroes that provide the basis for well-being. The policy contribution is an active, targeted industrial policy that has contributed to the highest employment rates of the time and a large number of new jobs in the private sector in Norway. Kindergartens, which have now been the subject, at an affordable price, good parental leave arrangements, a good school and a good school leave scheme help both sexes to improve their ability to contribute to working life. Active labour market policies and not least cooperation with the social partners provide innovation, adaptability and growth. Bad economic governance, which we have already had today, with a low interest rate and a stable exchange rate, is the key prerequisites for competitive business. Will Prime Minister Solberg continue the ambition of the previous government to have Europe's lowest unemployment rate and to continue the measures that have made it possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e595	Low unemployment is one of our most important goods for well-being. Making sure that people have a job to do means that they have the security to pay their bill next month. That means they have a security around the situation. That welfare dimension is great, and it is incredibly important to ensure it. That is why one of the most important elections in the Right was to ensure that jobs were safe. That's why we're going to continue to have a strategy to create safe jobs. I guess I would say that in the picture that was drawn by why we're where we are today, there were some dimensions missing. It was missing, for example. a dimension that was about the fact that, unlike many other countries, we actually have large oil revenues that contribute to the release of some difficult choices that other countries have had and that help us to lubricate a public sector without the tax level being as high as it would have been if we had not had the oil revenues. It is important to remember that this is one of the reasons why we are also seen as a different country. It's not going to last forever. Therefore, it is important to renew strategies for having safe jobs in Norway. That is why it is extremely important that, in the years to come, we provide more competitiveness for more industries. That means we're going to have an active business policy. I am not always sure what the Workers' Party's representatives think when they say that, because it often becomes a find word without content. Eight years ago, there was a lot of active talk and little active action. But in the large picture, this is about the competitiveness of Norwegian business. It's about making sure that we have a tax level that's viable for Norwegian companies. It is about stimulating investment in non-oil-related sectors as well. It's about lifting skills and knowledge, so we're getting smarter. That is what will ensure that in the years to come we will be able to maintain a society that is the world's best country to live in. It was, in fact, under the government before the previous one.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e602	I note that there is a great deal of agreement between the previous government and the current government that one of the challenges of industrial policy is the two-fold development of the relationship between the oil-related industry and the non-oil-based industry. We agree that is a challenge. I still think it's dangerous to give the impression that we're so lucky to have oil revenues, automatically leads to that we're going to have full employment. Despite the fact that we have had oil revenues, we have experienced in the past that the challenges of the other industry have been so great that we have not had Europe’s lowest unemployment at all times – even in the oil age. The availability is also a result of political choices. When we met the financial crisis a few years ago, we spent about as much extra money on gross national income as Sweden did. But we got completely different results, because we chose different solutions. That is why I repeat the question: will the solutions, which allow us to continue to have Europe's lowest unemployment, be maintained?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e607	When it comes to a general question of things being carried on, I don't think I can give a general answer that everything will be continued – there will, of course, be changes. There will be a more active policy to ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian business with the new government in relation to the previous government. There will be more focus on simplifying Norway with the new government than with the previous government. Both will contribute to competitiveness. There's going to be more focus on knowledge, there's going to be more focus on research and development, and on making Norwegian companies more innovative. We will strengthen the ability to create safe jobs both in the short term and – not least – in the long term. Our children deserve politicians who have more than a four-year horizon, who have a generation horizon, and we as politicians have plans to have that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e612	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Else-May Botten.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e616	The Prime Minister and I are both from the coast, and I think we are very proud of that. It also makes us very concerned about industrial policy. We have a lot of industrial clusters that are export oriented, and I think an active industrial policy is important to them. The previous government made a lot of efforts in five areas: marine, maritime, tourism, energy and environmental technologies; five very important areas of activity that helped create more jobs, safer jobs, increased value creation and, above all, good competitiveness for key industries in the country. Will the Prime Minister continue with the active enterprise policy in the future, or is there anything new? And are there any new solutions to dismantle the toolbox that we've had?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e625	It will continue to be that, within our research and innovation apparatus, we will give priority to areas in which we are strong, but we will, in addition to the priority areas in which we need to become stronger in the future. One of the grips we have to think about is how we build more industries that will carry us after the oil age. That means that we have to look at other areas than just those areas that we see today as strong areas. We also need to look at instruments that are more general and contribute to it. One of the things we've said, for example. in areas where public procurement is a major buyer of services, how can we contribute through public procurement activities to stimulate innovation and innovation that provides us with better solutions for the citizens of Norway, be it welfare technology or in other areas, but also provide us with business that we can live on in the future? For the demand for help in old age, Norway is not limited; it is in many countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e630	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e633	Having high employment is not just about having a good business and creating power in what creates jobs, but it is also about all those who are out of the labour market today. Without interrupting what comes into the Left's alternative budget, and without interrupting what the Left is going to give priority to when we are going to negotiate the budget with the government, I have at least expectations that the government will have a different pace and approach to all those who are being pushed out of the labour market, such as. many of the people with disabilities who want to work but who do not get the opportunity to do so because the systems are not designed for it – they do not fit into the square. They do not fit into the measures either. My question to the Prime Minister is whether she will think again and think differently than the previous government in terms of the exclusion that many people feel in the Norwegian labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e640	I believe that one of the weaknesses of the welfare society in Norway is that there are too many people who would want them to work and who do not come into the labour market. It requires new measures, it requires that we constantly look critically at what we are doing today – we spend a lot of money within the device, in the areas of social security and other things – that we can spend that money better and twist them so that it makes it easier for people to get into work. I mean, among other things: cooperation with employers, e.g. with extensive and wider use of wage subsidies, is a way to improve solutions in this area. But I think this is such a big task that we're all going to be involved in the discussion of what are the best measures, because it's contributing both to the experience of the difficulties of our society and to the issues of poverty, that so many people who wanted to be at work are out of work. A lot of people feel that they can't use their cancers, and it feels very negative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e645	Johnny Ingebrichtsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e648	Minister of Labour Robert Eriksson says today in today's Business today that youth has to get up in the morning. I fully agree with that. It's also very good to see life and see the day. I cannot, with my best will, see the connection between this duty of activity and the question of social assistance. Most people who receive social assistance only get it for a very limited period of time. There is support for getting over a knee, social assistance is strictly limited, and there is full opportunity for Nav to make demands for activity or other if that's what it takes for people to manage to get into work or education. What is the reason why the Minister of Labour gives notice of a general obligation of activity, when we know that most people end up with social assistance very quickly already today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e655	The President again recalls the link between the main issues and follow-up questions, but believes that the Prime Minister would also like to respond to this last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e658	I'd like to. I think it is incredibly important that we have a device that – not least – meets young people with activity from day one and not with passive benefits. I believe that giving them an offer that allows them to enter regular life forms, is present somewhere and gets both training and work training, is very important for their own mastering feeling. I've been looking at some of the projects that run around, and I've met the users of these, who have just said that that's what has turned their development around. I was in Lillesand at the beginning of the campaign and met a young girl. She just told us – that she was caught up in, put into a system of assistance and an activity obligation from day one, so that she had now turned down and returned to the education system again. I believe that the obligation to work is love for those people – and especially young people – who need that support at a critical time when they are about to fall out. In fact, waiting too long for an offer is to make sure that more young people fall out of our systems and become passive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e665	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're moving on to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e677	There will be one change in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to the list distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 5, from the representative Hans Fredrik Grovean to the Minister for Industry, will be answered by the Minister for Justice and Defence on behalf of the Minister for Industry, who has been away. At the request of the Minister of Justice and Security, this question is moved and answered before question 13, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e690	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Municipal Affairs and Modernisation: ‘The government will carry out a municipal reform ensuring that the necessary decisions are taken during the period, it is called in the government’s political platform. In its answer to a written question from Stortinget, the Council of State has stressed that the municipal reform is to be created and anchored locally, in cooperation between the municipalities/municipal federations, the Stortinget and the government. Can the Council of State confirm that reference to local anchoring means that the principle of volunteering will continue to be used by decision on local merger?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e699	Let me first say that the municipal structure is a mature reform, and that is a desired reform. The aim of the reform is to strengthen local democracy and to ensure that municipalities can provide better services to their citizens. It is true that I want the municipal reform to be created and anchored locally in cooperation with the local authorities/municipal associations, the Stortinget and the government. The government will take an initiative against the parties in the Storting, so that we can agree on the direction and principles of the reform. Within these frameworks, we will invite the municipalities to local processes where the structure is assessed. I think there is a lot of consensus that something should be done about the municipal structure. I also hope that we will have a pragmatic approach from all parties to this discussion, for this is about a reform that will have sustainability 30–50 years to come. I think that's why it's starting at the wrong end, when you start asking questions about coercion. I think we should now have the focus on asking the important questions about how our future public welfare will be ensured and further developed for the future. What challenges we face in the face of population development is a question we politicians, both nationally and locally, have to take responsibility for discussing and having a relationship with.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e713	Many of us remember the years with today's prime minister as a municipal minister. Also, there was pressure to merge the municipalities. Appropriations for bridges and road solutions were used as baits for decisions on bundling. Many places stood against the pressure of the inhabitants and local politicians, and elsewhere they felt pressured to bend away. The tightening up of the municipal economy is another means of pressurisation. The small municipal grant, which is intended to ensure the equivalence of municipal services throughout the country, has been proposed by the Progress Party to force through the municipal merger. My supplementary question will therefore be: can the Council of State ensure that the government will not invest in the local economy of the small municipalities or demand for municipal mergers to put in place infrastructure investments?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e722	Let me first note that the questioner seems more interested in looking back than in the future. I believe it is important that we now have a discussion about how we can get bigger and more robust municipalities, so that they can get more tasks, more responsibility and more autonomy. That's what this is about for the government. That's when we invite Stortinget to a dialogue on this. We want a dialogue on the process and we want a dialogue on the premises. Therefore, it would be totally wrong for me now to give a very clear answer to what instruments are involved in contributing to good processes locally, and to achieve more robust and larger municipalities. It is one of the issues on which the government will invite the Stortinget to dialogue so that we can have broad cooperation on the reform. I think that is necessary in order for the reform to last for perhaps 30-50 years in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e731	While the Soria Moria Declaration stated that changes in the municipal structure should be based on volunteering, the political platform of today's government says that a municipal reform is to be carried out during the period. However, the principle of volunteering has been replaced by unexplained statements that processes should be anchored locally. The Right Party and the Advance Party will strengthen local democracy and give people the most increased influence over their everyday lives, it is said in the government platform. But it is very unclear to me whether the involvement of the population will apply when the issue of community reunification is put on the agenda. I don't think most people will experience that coercion of municipalities is a strengthening of local democracy. Can the Council of State confirm that the involvement and strengthening of local democracy will also apply to the issue of community reunification?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e740	Now I have made it clear that the government wants a dialogue with the Storting on both the process and the premise for the reform. It is important for the government, precisely because this should be a reform that is not dogmatism or ideology, but a process and a reform that is marked by pragmatism, so that we can have a robust community reform for the future, which can provide our citizens with better services. As I said, the goal is more local democracy and municipalities that can take on larger tasks, which can have more autonomy and can take more responsibility. I hope that the Center Party will also be involved in that process, because I note that all the parties on the Stortinget in their programmes for this process have been open to a reform. Out in Kommune-Norge, this is a wanted reform, and that's why I invite you to interact and work together to get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e751	I will ask the Minister for Culture and the Church the following questions: ‘In the alternative budgets of the Right and Advance Party for 2013, both parties cut over 100 million. kr in the press stand. Many newspapers are known to wear off. Cutt will weaken media pluralism and democratic debate. Rogaland's newspaper goes from six to three editions a week. The editor says, ‘A cut in the press support will be impossible to handle’. Does this development concern the Council of State?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e760	It's true that the government wants to change and reduce media support. This is clearly stated in the government's political platform. Here we have also said that it is a goal for the government's media policy to: ‘promoting good news production and a wide-ranging public conversation in the digital media society of the future’. I believe that these two ambitions are not in conflict with each other. In other words, I disagree with the premise on the question from the representative Liadal that any support line will weaken diversity and democratic debate. Press support has helped to maintain a newspaper diversity in Norway. We can be proud of this diversity. I think Liadal and I can agree on that. A media diversity has a social value that means that we will continue to have support schemes for this sector. It is important for me to stress that the government therefore has no principle against media support. That being said, it is an objective of the government to reduce the dependence of the press on state aid measures. Although we have long traditions of living with a state-subsidized critical press in Norway, high dependence on State aid will serve to preserve the industry. In a dynamic and adaptable sector, the development needs to be managed by the actors themselves – not by government instruments. The government therefore wants to reduce the level of the production grant. At the same time, we shall look at the media support system to ensure that the subsidy is as targeted and effective as possible. This will also reduce the impact of a budgetary reduction on beneficiaries who have a real need for grants. I therefore believe that press support can be somewhat reduced without having a negative impact on diversity. How we're going to do this, I'll come back to, among other things. in budgetary context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e778	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. As I said, we do not yet know what the government's budget will contain, but we aim to ensure that they follow up what they have said in terms of the press support and the possible slowdown of it. What will the Council of State do in this regard to ensure the newspaper diversity in Rogaland, as an example?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e787	What is important for me to stress is that the government will ensure that any cuts in media support will not have a negative impact on media pluralism or democratic debate. It's very important for us to get underlined. It's not to hide that many of the media today are in a very difficult situation. They are in a very demanding situation — periodically demanding — because they have falling circulations, falling advertising revenue, and not least immature digital business models. But it's also very important here that it's up to the individual media to adapt to the new everyday life. The government is to ensure that they have good framework conditions, but I do not see that anything cut in the media support should possibly be the only reason they had to wear.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e796	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We hear many editors say – and we read about – that many newspapers are on the edge of the stump. Will the Council of State in the near future engage in dialogue with the editors and the newspaper industry on the desired policy for the future from the government, to ensure that they do not now fall victim to the collapse?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e803	The newspapers are in a demanding transition phase, I think we can agree on that. However, whether the newspaper industry is going to deal with this transition is not primarily guided by the level of production subsidies, I think it is very important to emphasise this, but to what extent the ability to implement the necessary conversion measures required by a digitised media everyday. Here we're going to contribute. We are concerned, as the previous government was, with a platform neutral press support. In addition, we have a very strong focus on trying to get harmonised VAT rates for paper newspapers and e-newspapers, and I also believe that this is a very important measure for the newspapers to meet the demanding challenge they are actually facing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e808	The President noted that the requester should be on the opposite side.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e815	I have allowed myself to ask a question to the Minister for Climate and Environment. I would like to congratulate the Minister for Climate and Environment on his appointment, and I hope that we can achieve good cooperation here in Stortinget. The question is as follows: ‘In the agreement on predators, point 4.2 states: ‘The settlement partners agree that final stock targets for wolves should be taken into account when an agreement with Sweden is in place by 2013 at the latest.’ 4.3 ‘If agreement with Sweden is not reached, the parties shall re-examine stock targets for wolves. ‘Great losses in the grazing season mean that the prevalence of the wolf in the Norwegian fauna needs to be determined urgently. 2013 is about to end. When can the Storting expect to be submitted to a case under the predatory agreement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e826	It is true, as the representative says, that the robberies agreement of 17 June 2011 states that the stock targets for wolves should be finalised when an agreement with Sweden is in place, by 2013. Today, wolves living in reefs across the national border are not included in the Norwegian stock target for wolves. In Sweden, however, limitrevir is fully included in the Swedish population target. The Ministry of the Environment has had several meetings with the Swedish Ministry of the Environment to discuss the distribution of border relays. The settlement parties in Stortinget are briefed on this. In line with the Robbery Agreement, the starting point for these negotiations is that border wolves are to be included in the Norwegian stock target by a factor of 0,5. On this basis, the agreement provides for the re-evaluation of the stock target for wolves. The Swedish government has, in the past autumn, made a proposal for the Riksdag on changes in predatory game policy. The proposal has not yet been dealt with by the Swedish Parliament, and the Swedish authorities have indicated that negotiations on the distribution of wolves living in border revir cannot take place until the proposal on changes in predatory game policy in Sweden has been addressed. I think it is important that we seek agreement with the Swedish authorities and find a good solution to the distribution of border wolves. I would therefore like to take the initiative to have new negotiating meetings set up quickly after the Swedish Government's proposals have been discussed in the parliament. It is therefore difficult to say when there can be a case for the Stortinget about the stock target for wolves, but I aim that it will happen as soon as possible after the negotiations with Sweden have ended. I will keep the Stortinget informed about the status and progress of these negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e837	Thanks for the answer. I understand that the matter is being worked on. What's the challenge for us is in particular the huge loss rates we've had in at least the last two years in the state from which I come. In Uppland, there should also be no wolf, because it is outside the wolf zone. Nevertheless, we experience great losses. Only this year we have – as far as I have an overview of – experienced that about 1,000 animals have been taken from predators in our state. About 270 of them are documented by wolves – in an area where there should be no wolf. So the despair is very great. I understand that the Minister for the Environment wants to wait for the Swedes. I hope we can start discussing this in Stortinget before, because I'm afraid that if we wait a year or two, it's too late for us. We have to figure out what kind of population we're going to have for the wolf that we have in our fauna. It also turns out that most of the wolves in Norway are Swedish, and it simply says that we have a much higher population of wolves than what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e844	We contact Sweden next week to get the time when we can negotiate, so that we do not lose time, after the parliament has dealt with the matter. But I think it makes more sense to seek clarification with Sweden first.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e849	I understand – and it has also been the intention of the Stortinget and the Robbery Agreement – that we should seek clarification with Sweden. I know that one is on the right track to have the correct inventory of, among other things. gloat, but I wish we had come further in the case of wolves, because that's the big challenge. We see that the wolf population has increased violently, it increases by 15-16 pst. Every year — in total Scandinavia — and that means that the wolf must have a place. We could have waited until we had spoken, but at least I hope that the Minister for Climate and Environment will come back to Stortinget and keep us informed about developments in Sweden. Then Stortinget has to assess whether we need to have our own stock register in Norway and set our own stock targets, or whether we are going to wait for Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e854	I promise to return to Stortinget as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e863	First, I too would like to congratulate Mrs Sundtoft as Minister for Climate and Environment. We are many who are proud and happy that there is a southerner who has received such an important post. So to the question: ‘Crypsive is one of the major environmental challenges in the southern watercourses. Governments are well aware of how bathing areas are destroyed, the power plant intakes are re-closed, and the spawning areas of the salmon are threatened. The problem makes it impossible to fulfil the obligations under the Water Regulation. In 2013, government appropriations for the Krypsiv project in the South were reduced to 2.5 million. kr and it is announced that the aid will be completely removed for 2014. What will the Council of State do to combat creepy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e874	As a southerner, I am well aware of the challenges that creepy causes when it invades the watercourses. Although creepy is not a foreign plant in the South, it acts as an invading species, with great negative consequences for both the environment, the local population and other important social interests. This problem I take seriously. The project that ends this year will therefore be followed up with a new project starting in 2014. This will be based on the experience so far and an evaluation of the current project. The evaluation will be carried out in the first quarter of 2014, so that a new project can start up until spring. My ambition is that it happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e881	Thank you for a good answer. I am pleased with the signals coming from the Minister for the Environment, and I understand so much that in terms of appropriations, it is probably difficult for the Council of State to say something. That's why I'm concerned that one can be clear to the partners, because the Krypsiv project is a collaboration between state, municipality and private – business as well, in fact, that spits in a lot of money. It is important that you get research in place, so that you can deal with challenges. Therefore, I have a question to the Council of State regarding funds: Will it be signalled to these parties that, when it is perceived that a new project will be launched in 2014, it will also follow funds with that project?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e888	The representative, Ropstad, is well aware that the state budget will be on Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e893	Then I'm not going to try to trick more out of the council, except to say that I'm glad that we have a government council that knows the problem well, because we've seen that this particular challenge, which may be a little special for the South, is hard to understand in the rest of the country. That's why we're going to follow the work of the Council of State carefully. Then I hope that when the budget comes on Friday, there will be good signals for this project.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e898	As I said at the outset, as a southerner, I am well aware of the challenges that creepy causes when it invades the watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e903	Question 5 will be answered in response to question 13. We go to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e910	‘The development project at Nordfjord Hospital was created in 2011 as a national project. The model now proposed involves a hospital without daily surgery. Former Minister of Health and Care Jonas Gahr Støre has, in the form of a letter, asked Health Vest to report by 10 November 2013 on day surgery should be part of the «local hospital of the future» in general and at Nordfjord hospital in particular. Will the Council of State follow up the intention of this letter and ensure that day surgery is provided at Nordfjord Hospital?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e917	The Ministry of Health and Welfare established in 2011 a national project at Nordfjord Hospital. The goal was to develop the hospital into a local time hospital for Nordfjord, using a model that provides a secure and forward-looking service to the population of the region. The pilot project at Nordfjord Hospital has helped to establish new and better health services for the Nordfjords. The model proposed for Nordfjord Hospital involves an intra-medical 24-hour offer, outpatient clinic, a wide range of day care services, extended and new outpatient services, mental health protection and drug treatment, a ‘good start’ unit and support services. There is a good and thorough analysis of these choices. It's not an offer for day surgery at Nordfjord Hospital today. However, the follow-up research carried out during the project period has pointed out that the day-to-day surgical need for the Nordfjord population is so great that it is necessary to assess whether day-to-day surgery should be included in the service offer at Nordfjord Hospital. The final report of the project has been widely consulted. Health Nord has pointed out that a day - surgery offer should be established at Nordfjord Hospital. The hearing opinions are now to be assessed in the Health West and in Health Lead. The aim is to present a ruling case both in the Health Guide and in the Health West during the autumn. Based on the consultations, Health West is reviewing whether there is a basis for day surgery at Nordfjord Hospital. The matter will be dealt with by the Board of Health West by December 2013. Health West is asked to report whether day surgery should be part of the ‘local hospital of the future’ in general and at Nordfjord hospitals in particular. The deadline for re-reporting to the Ministry of Health and Welfare has been set at 10 November 2013. It is not natural for me to conclude now in advance of the board meetings in Health Leader and Health West, but no new steering signals have been given in this case in relation to what has been done by the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e934	Health law has certain limitations in the decision-making capacity of the former. Paragraph 30 states that it is the business meeting, i.e. the Council of State, which ‘takes decisions on matters which are presumed to be essential for the enterprise’s operations or the solution of defined objectives or tasks’, i.e. matters of principle. If it is now decided to continue in North fjord without surgical day care, there will be a whole new model in Norway. It is mapped 18 corresponding hospitals, with a population base corresponding to that in Nordfjordeid, which have day-care facilities. My question is whether the Minister of Health and Health does not see that this is a question where the Minister of Health and Health must have the last word.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e941	In the governance model, the Minister of Health and Welfare has the last words, but it is also the case that one has to use the whole governance model. That means that this is now a matter which the first board of Health Leader assesses, and then it is the board of Health West that assesses it. Then the previous Minister of Health and Care has asked for a separate report to the Department of this theme when Health West has reached its conclusion. Once that report is completed, of course, I will decide on the decision made in the Health West.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e946	In a reply round during the debate on the throne, the Minister of Health and Health would not clarify whether he supports the importance of emergency surgery as part of the local hospital emergency function. I could imagine asking if the Minister of Health and Health sees that there is a very important argument here that local hospitals must at least have surgical day activities in order to also benefit from the anaesthetic resource that the Storting has decided to be part of the minimum standards of local hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e951	There are some very important arguments for what the representative here is raising. Important arguments have been developed through the research carried out, which takes into account the needs of the population of the specific region. Then there are also important arguments, not least from one of the health regions that have many local hospitals, Health Nord, that argue on the same lines as the representative does. There are important arguments that I expect both the board of Health Leader and the board of Health West to focus on before they draw their conclusions and report back to the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e960	«The current representative Bent Höie said in our country 27 February 2012 about the right to reserve permanent staff: «There is enough work for doctors in Norway. If there is such a strong counter-representation against referring to lawful health services, a search for work should be carried out in all the locations where one is not exposed to it.’ Is the Council of State Bent Höie in agreement with the Secretary of State Bent Höie?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e967	As you know, the Right and Advance Party have concluded a cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party in which we, among other things. has agreed that the government should provide a reservation facility for permanent residents following a defined dialogue with the Medical Association. This is an agreement that I, as Minister of Health and Care, will follow. Now as before, I am against a reservation right defined by the individual doctor. For me, it's the patient's concern that's most important when doctors want to make a reservation. That is why I would like to propose a system to ensure that the patient is granted his/her rights. No women will experience that abortion will be difficult because her doctor will not refer to the hospital. The system we are now working on contains several steps to ensure that patients are granted their rights and that they are properly respected. This is a reservation option, it's not a reservation right. We know that some Norwegian fast doctors have reserved to refer to abortion since the abortion law was introduced, i.e. for 40 years. By introducing a clear-cut reservation facility, I believe that we will ensure patients' rights and the need for information in a significantly better way than what has been the practice in Norway in the last 40 years, while at the same time providing the ability to make reservations. I think it's positive to give room for ethical reflection with the doctors. We must respect those who think that abortion is ethically difficult, even if they are fixed. I would like to send out a proposal for a reservation arrangement at the hearing after the New Year. Then it is important for me to get ideas and views on how we can best care for patients in a vulnerable situation, while at the same time giving doctors the opportunity to make reservations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e978	I thank you for your answer. I will briefly follow up the last Council of State, namely that he is now aiming to send a proposal to the hearing. As the Council of State is probably familiar with, according to the investigation instructions, the government is required to send out legislative proposals at the hearing, just to hear what people and organisations think. Then the question is, what should be the content and the framework and the severity of what should you listen to what actually comes from opposites and other things? Can the Council of State say here and now that if there were to be strong counter-representations from so many key players, will he not only change the legislative proposal he intends to send to the hearing but, if necessary, withdraw the proposal if there are grounds for doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e983	The Right Party and the Advance Party have entered into an agreement with the Christian People's Party, which is three parties with a majority in the Stortinget, to introduce a reservation option, not a reservation right, for the decision-makers. The content of the reservation option will be enshrined in the amendment to the law and amendment to the regulation. The change in the law and the change in the regulation will be the subject of the consultation. Then, of course, the government will listen to the recordings that are coming. There will be a reservation facility for permanent residents, but after a wide consultation round and a good debate in Stortinget. It is primarily this hall that determines the content of the arrangement. I also believe that there is a basis for perhaps hoping that this arrangement will be so good that it will have an even wider parliamentary basis than the three parties that have signed this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e988	Then I want to go to the more practical implications and consequences of what the Council of State actually proposes. One of the things you have to decide about is how to ensure that women and patients are informed about which doctors you can't turn to in a difficult, serious life crisis, maybe. I fully agree with the Council of State that abortion is not a simple question. I think very many girls and women who have been involuntaryly pregnant know very well. The question then is, how should women and patients be informed about this? In many municipalities, they have temporary coverage for each other. Means e.g. what Höie had previously suggested that the residents of the municipality should only receive a letter from the permanent staff member who has made a reservation? Or will all the residents who are patients in a municipality receive similar information, as they can meet a substitute doctor?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e995	It is worth reminding again that the abortion law in Norway is 40 years old. It has been a practice to have a self-defined right of reservation among fixed doctors and doctors during that period, which has not given patients the possibility of information or rights when this right has been exercised. What I'm going to send out at the hearing will therefore mean a dramatic and significant improvement in patients' rights. Patients will be given information about which doctors have reserved, in the form of letters, and they will also be able to get information about it on the pages where a particular doctor chooses. It is the municipalities that are responsible for the type of primary health service that the doctors provide. This scheme will therefore be locally anchored. The certainty that there are good alternatives in place without any unnecessary travel time or delay for the patient is one of the issues that municipalities should consider in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1006	‘Christian People’s Party Vice-Chairman Dagrun Eriksen said in the television programme that the issue of the right of reservation for permanent residents was difficult to address in terms of assisted fertilisation and pills. In other words, she said it was not clear. This creates a great deal of uncertainty about what is actually in the proposal. For example, there are certain authors who believe that the prescription should be printed on the label. Spiral and pill pills are just as wrong as referring to abortion, and will want to make a reservation. Is the Council of State in agreement with Dagrun Eriksen, or will he guarantee that there will be no prevention and assisted conception?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1013	I agree with the Vice-Chairman of the Christian People's Party, Dagrun Eriksen, that this is a difficult question, but the possibility of reservation that we are working on now should include serious questions of conscience related to life and death, that is. reference to abortion and, where appropriate, euthanasia if it is permitted in Norway once in the future. Therefore, the system that will be put in place at the hearing and the proposal that will be drawn up will not allow permanent practitioners to reserve themselves from referring to assisted fertilisation or, for example: to prescribe contraception, but be limited to the two areas that I mentioned initially in my reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1018	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. It surprises me a little bit that the government parties and the Christian People's Party are taking the debate on active death aid together with the debate on reservation rights. The right to health care is a statutory right. Active death aid is currently outlawed. As one wants to put these debates together, I would like to ask the Council of State if this could mean that someone now wants to open up to active death help.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1025	No, by no means. If you know both my position, the position of the Right and the position of the Christian People's Party on that question, it's definitely not on the agenda. But I see that the decision-makers feel that it is important to be able to be assured, if a majority in this room once in the future went to the step of opening up active death aid, that one can reserve himself against contributing in such a context. Then I am also convinced that if the discussion ever comes up about legalizing it in Norway, there will of course be a discussion about a separate reservation option related to it among those who work in the specialist health service. However, it is natural to take this discussion now when a reservation facility is to be established, and since this has been an important argument for those who are concerned with the reservation facility, to just introduce this system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1032	I thought I knew the position of Minister of Health Höie, but in the debate on booking rights, I have made a mistake. The Council of State announces that he will change the law, so that determined, unlike today, can refuse some supply of female patients. I am doubtful that such a proposal will get very much in agreement in a hearing. I hope the Council of State will take the call seriously. In any case, today's legislation will apply until the Storting amends the law, if necessary. There are a number of definites that now decide that they want to make a reservation – so they are taking such a change of law on advance, as there is no opportunity to do so today. Therefore, I wonder what the Council of State will actually do as responsible for the Ministry of Health in order to enforce the current legislation, so that no women are denied access until the Storting may have made the legal change that is necessary for it to be possible to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1041	I assume that in Norway today, decision-makers relate to the legislation and the law that are, and the clarifications that have been made in that area, and do not start to practice a system until it is enshrined in the law and regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1050	‘Women’s right to abortion is regulated by the Abortion Act [[abort laws]] Will the Council of State now amend the abortion law in order to extend health professionals’ access to the reservation by submitting a legislative proposal to the Stortinget?’ One of the many issues that have remained unresolved in the debate on booking rights is whether women’s right to abortion is linked to the right of reservation. That context acknowledged the Storting in Section 14 of the Abortion Act when the reservation rights of health professionals were violated by them against carrying out or assisting them in the event of an abortion. Will the Council of State now amend the abortion law in order to extend health professionals’ access to the reservation by submitting a legislative proposal to the Stortinget and related hearings? And if it is linked to the hearing that it will also take place...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1061	The President makes a point of noticing the question that has been raised, and does not justify it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1064	I intend to send out a consultation note with proposals for reservation right over the New Year. Then, on schedule, the proposal shall be presented to the Stortinget as an ordinary act of law in the autumn of 2014. I will not propose to regulate the reservation scheme in the abortion law. This is essentially a matter of exempting the list responsibilities of decision-makers. I would therefore like to propose a supplement to the provision of the Health and Care Services Act, which is the provision of the provisions of the third paragraph of Section 3-2. The Appendix shall specify the details of the reservation scheme in the laying down rules. The main features of the regulation will also be presented to the Stortinget in the billing proposal, so that the Stortinget has a good basis for discussing this matter and provides a basis for the legislative changes that are needed to change the regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1071	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The Council of State today goes a long way in saying that the hearing will be almost only for the sake of sight and that the decision has been taken in advance. I am concerned that all the votes in this case should be heard. The Council of State has said in the past that the Lege Association will be heard in inexorably. They have said that they are in favour of the right of reservation, and the minister has said several times that they will be taken on board in terms of designing the practicality of the right of reservation. How will the Minister ensure that the other interests and views in this matter will be heard in the same way?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1080	The fact that we are going to introduce a reservation option is a majority in Stortinget that has asked the government to work with, but a reservation option has a comprehensive content, which also has to be regulated by law and regulation. Not least, the level of detail of the part of the questions I have been asked about this matter today shows that there are other questions than the principle of introducing a reservation option that interests the Storting and the surroundings. The consultation will give us a broad picture of all the questions related to a reservation option. Of course, everyone will have equal status in that consultation work, and it is this hall that ultimately determines the content of the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1087	The Minister of Health understands that there is a great difference between hearing and listening. There are hundreds of women who have sent e-mails to wholesalers because they are concerned and opposed to this proposal. They have also sent e-mails to representatives of the Minister's own party, Right, and have been met with answers that they lack popularism. How does the Minister of Health think that these women should move forward in order to be heard – listened to – by representatives from the Right? What is the preferred form of communication? E-mail is obviously not that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1094	Based on my contact with the women involved in this issue, I don't think they need advice from me on how to proceed to influence the political environment. I think they're very capable of that themselves. I have the impression that they are working very effectively politically to contribute to this matter, and they will probably also do so when the matter is being consulted, and one then has the opportunity to make their views known both on the principle and on the content of this system. I think that the right-wing representatives' feedback on the e-mails was more about the scope of copy mails than the content and the way to work otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1103	After all, it is the gateway to the health services for which the authorities are responsible to their citizens. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1108	The President is asking for the question to be answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1111	I'm sorry. ‘The allocation or choice of permanent staff is often random. Young people usually have their mother's tenure, patient lists are passed on by moving, young people study away from their home community, and establish temporary workers for each other. [[children under 18 years of age]] In the opinion of the Council of State, women should be expected to keep up-to-date on the reservations they have at all times and that young people should change their minds. possible future health care?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1120	It is important that the reservation system is implemented in the most gentle manner possible for patients. Among other things, it is important to provide patients with good information. In the hearing, I propose that decision-makers who agree to a reservation with the municipality should send letters to all their list patients and inform about the agreement. The patients who want to do so should then have the opportunity to get a new appointment without this being counted as an exchange for the right to change twice a year. The fixed doctor’s website shall have clear information on the doctor’s reservations. All those who wish to change their order must be aware that the doctor they wish to change to has made a reservation. Those who do not wish to be on the list of doctors who have reserved must be able to choose another doctor as their permanent practitioner. All patients who are not themselves opting for a permanent medical examiner but who are being assigned a permanent doctor shall be informed if the doctor they are granted has made a reservation. I would also like to assess whether, under certain conditions, girls under the age of 16, should be able to change their firmness without the consent of their parents, using the same model as in the abortion law, if any. I see that this raises some practical questions, including: related to what parents should know. It is, however, in principle right that girls in such a situation get an independent right to choose the doctor she wants help from. I will therefore investigate such a scheme. It is very important that regulars who have reserved meet women who need referral to abortion, in a professional and dignified way. If one of the patients of a reserved doctor needs referral to an abortion, the doctor must provide an appointment with another doctor nearby — at the latest within one day. This should preferably happen when the woman asks for an hour from the doctor and before she meets up to the hour. Preserving doctors must ensure that this part of the scheme is implemented in such a way that the disadvantages to patients are minimised. It is also important for me to obtain information that it is not a requirement to revisit the doctor in order to have abortions carried out in Norway. All women can go directly to specialist health services. This also applies to women under 18 years of age. The abortion law regulates that for women under 16 years of age, except in some cases, there will be a requirement to inform parents, but there is a general requirement that will not be affected by this. It is therefore important to obtain information, including: to the school health service that this scheme already exists. The school health service is therefore in a position to provide good information to girls under 18 years of age that they have the opportunity to go directly to specialist health services and that there is no requirement to go on a regular basis. This may be an offer that is important for young women to make use of independently of whether or not they have made reservations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1137	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer — a very thorough response, dealing with many of the issues that are important for young girls to update, as part of the primary health service, and as part of the school health service. Some of the challenges about the purpose of the right of reservation are that these are often conditions that the girls do not have a concrete opportunity to reflect around until they are in a potentially difficult situation. My follow-up question to the Council of State will be whether he can elaborate a little on the extent to which he believes it is legitimate for young girls to conduct ‘research’ on a moral level as they experience in their firmness.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1144	I think it is important that young girls receive information in advance much more than has been the case in the last 40 years in Norway — if doctors have reservations about referring to abortion. This means that young women, like other women, will find themselves in a completely different situation now, after this scheme, than has been the practice in Norway for the past 40 years. They want completely different rights attached to this, and completely different opportunities to get information. In addition, I will take the initiative to provide more information to healthcare about the scheme that already exists, namely the possibility to contact the specialist healthcare service directly. I think maybe a lot of the particularly vulnerable girls, to which the representative refers, however, it would seem easier and better to get that kind of information from the school health service, and then go to the specialist health service directly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1151	The government platform says that the government wants less bureaucracy and a simpler everyday life for most people, and I hear that the government council has come a long way in its reasoning that this will help the patient and be a strength for the patient. The representative Kjerkol doesn't feel as convinced about it. I actually had a little greater sympathy for the clear voice of the Council of State when he was also a representative. How does the Minister of Health feel today that this harmonizes with a simpler everyday life? Are you really talking about strengthening school health or talking about a change in the obligation of publicity? Now I understand that all this is going back to Stortinget, but for the time being the full picture of this representative is that this is more bureaucratic and a harder terrain to maneuver in for young girls.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1160	This will involve both parts of what the representative mentions, both strengthening the information for the school health service on an existing scheme and at the same time establishing a new system that ensures patients both better information and legal certainty in connection with the fact that decision-makers make use of a reservation option – and I stress a reservation option – not a reservation right, which was the discussion in which I, as a major representative, also participated very strongly. I believe that there is a significant difference between a custom reservation right, which the individual firmer itself defines the content of – and which contains no rights for the patient or information systems – and the reservation option that I have described and which I am going to send out to the hearing right over the New Year. Getting more information to patients, strengthening patients' rights, is also part of this government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1172	‘The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, stated in the debate on the throne that doctors entitled to a reservation cannot work in the districts. If the Council of State agrees with its party trap, how will he ensure that equal rights to healthcare throughout the country remain an important principle in the Norwegian health system, while at the same time the conscience of doctors must weigh equally heavily independently of the place of work?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1179	All municipalities are responsible for providing the necessary general medical services to the inhabitants of the municipality, including: offer to be on the list of permanent doctors. Therefore, the patient’s consideration shall be decisive in the design of the reservation scheme. Decision-makers shall be given an opportunity to make reservations, but not a right. That is to say, if patients’ rights are not guaranteed, a permanent resident cannot get a reservation agreement. Municipalities have to decide on local circumstances if permanent residents can make a reservation. The only doctor in a small place with a long journey to the next doctor's office can therefore not get such an agreement. Therefore, if a permanent resident can get a reservation agreement, this will depend on, among other things, of where the doctor will work in the country. The government believes that those who are most suitable to assess this in the first place are the municipality, which has a care-for-responsibilities, and who know the local conditions best. But, of course, the county will verify afterwards that municipalities do not enter into reservation agreements with the local authorities that are contrary to the intentions set out in the law and regulations in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1188	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. Let's take an example: the municipality of Luray – which is a smaller municipality – has two permanent residents. They're up to date. a permanent medical examiner and is in the process of employing fixed numbers. 2nd@item: inlistbox Of course, it's going to be a broad call-out process. However, should it be in that process that in the interview with the future permanent agent, or with those who have applied for the job, questions will be asked whether he or she has exercised this right of reservation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1195	At least it is very clear that the municipality must know this before they enter into an agreement with the local authority. It is the municipality that is a contracting party, and that is why it is also natural that it is the municipality that first assesses these questions, because it is the municipality that is a party to the agreement, and it is the municipality that has a responsibility for caring for its inhabitants. It is also the municipality that knows best the local conditions and can assess whether it is appropriate in their municipality or not. How they do it in practice, whether it's in an interview or in other ways, in the text of the call – there are many imaginable ways to do it – I don't want to go into details right now. But if there are any challenges to what the government is sending out at the hearing, I expect those challenges will arise in the hearing, and then we can take them into account when designing the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1202	Thank you. As the Council of State understands, there is uncertainty about several of the details of this proposal. We look forward to the round of consultations to be held. There are more details in this that are problematic, precisely because the women who come into this difficult situation should meet a health care system that is as simple as possible, so that they get help to solve the problem they have come up with, in a simple way. After all, they have all the demands for this help as well. Does the Council of State feel that it is unproblematic that a jobseeker’s conscience or religious stand should be addressed in the event of employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1211	I find it unproblematic that the municipality takes this up in advance of the conclusion of an agreement with a permanent resident, because this is a significant question related to the task of the permanent resident. I think the representative and I agree on that. It is therefore important to clarify this in this context. The way this is done, I think the municipalities themselves are able to figure out in a good way. But these are people – those who want to make use of the reservation option – who will be fully aware of the legislation and regulations in this area and who will also have a very conscious relationship with it. I don't think they'll feel that uncomfortable or any other way, to express their view of it. Then the municipality has to decide whether it is a municipality that wants to open up for this or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1222	«In my municipality of Rissa there are few permanent residents. If the settler in a small municipality has reserved himself, the situation becomes difficult for the patient who wants a further referral. Women in a vulnerable situation need to move about a new fixed and demanding conversation before they receive the reference they need. What does the Council of State consider to be acceptable travel distance for a patient to the permanent medical practitioner and how long is acceptable waiting time?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1229	It is important for me again to stress that I will not propose that the proxy will have a general right to reserve, but an opportunity. It is a prerequisite for the physician to be able to reserve that it is possible to maintain the patient in a good manner at the same time. It is the municipalities that decide whether doctors can get a reservation agreement based on local circumstances. The only doctor in a small place with a long way to the next doctor's office can therefore not get an agreement on a reservation. The prescriber who has made a reservation shall not only be referred to as an appointment for an appointment with another doctor. The decision-maker is also obliged to ensure that the woman is given an hour in the presence of another doctor, at the latest within 24 hours. What is acceptable travel distance must be assessed according to the local conditions. I will consider this point in more detail and will in particular ask the Hearing Officers for their views on what will be the natural regulation of the very issue that the representative raises, but in that work there will be consideration for the patient who will be the decisive one. Then I also have a basic belief that those who sit on local and local municipal boards are best placed to assess the local conditions. It is not necessarily that all this needs to be regulated in detail by the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1236	Thank you very much for a good response from the Minister of Health and Health. A follow-up question: it is true that many municipalities in Norway are small. Let's say you have a 16-year-old girl who lives in a small municipality – for example, Osen municipality with less than 1,000 inhabitants and four-five hours travel distance to Trondheim municipality. The 16-year-old is pregnant and wants an abortion. She needs either a new reference to a new doctor or to go to the specialist health service in Trondheim, and she needs a kiss to get there. The 16-year-old girl wants to keep her pregnancy secret from her parents. Does the Council see that this can create major problems for young girls in a vulnerable position as to how to actually solve the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1245	If the girl is over 16, she has the opportunity to keep this secret from her parents. If the girl is under 16, there's a regulation of it in the abortion law already that we don't have any plans to make changes in. I would like to say that the scheme we are now proposing here will significantly improve the situation and the possibility of the envisaged example in relation to what has been the practice in many places in Norway for nearly 40 years. In this context, it is also important to draw up precisely the point raised by the representative. In this context, it is also important to provide the very point raised by the representative: that there is an opportunity to seek out the specialist health service directly and there to receive good information, and not least to obtain good information in the school health service, so that the school health service can be involved and inform women in this work in a better way than is likely to be possible in the current practice and to be able to take this into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1254	I am a little surprised, because the undersigned have come to realize that this matter is about a reservation option – as the Council of State says – for permanent agents. Now the Council of State also says that the doctor can apply to have this reservation granted, but that it should be up to the municipalities to decide whether it is granted. Is it, then, that this matter no longer concerns the conscience of the decision-makers, but the conscience of the local authorities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1261	On the one hand, this is about introducing a reservation facility that meets a strong desire and need of many doctors to be able to reserve itself on serious issues related to life and death. I think it's positive that doctors are aware that they want and have room for an ethical reflection around their business. I do not want us in Norway to have doctors operating on autopilots as to what the state at any time has decided or believes. This was a matter that the undersigned was also concerned about in the discussion on booking rights, because I thought these were two good conditions that had to be balanced against each other. In a discussion about booking rights, the scale fell for my part, saying that in a general right of reservation it was not possible to properly care for the patient. Within this reservation facility, as we are now proposing, I believe that these balance bowls are balanced, and it is possible to maintain both relationships.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1274	This question, from the representative Hans Fredrik Groevan to the Minister of Industry, will be answered by the Minister of Justice and Defence on behalf of the Minister of Industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1277	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Industry the following questions: ‘Can the Council of State explain the obligations of a Norwegian State-owned company, SAS, concerning working conditions, for its employees inside and outside Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1284	On behalf of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, the answer is as follows: SAS is a Swedish group of employees in Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Finland. The group deals with a number of employee organisations in the different countries and has collective agreements with all the different organisations. As a shareholder in SAS, the State does not have access to concrete agreements between the company and its employees, but based on the state's ownership dialogue with the company, I assume that the collective agreements are in line with the company's statutory obligations as an employer. I also understand that in individual cases collective agreements go beyond these obligations. For example, the company has more restrictive working time rules for cabin crew than the legislation requires. As regards the regulatory framework, the SAS Group has subsidiaries and bases in several Nordic countries. These subsidiaries relate to the laws and regulations of each country. In Norway, the relevant legislation will inter alia: are the Aviation Act, the Working Environment Act, the Working Environment Regulation, etc. for aviation, rules on working time in aviation and the Foreign Affairs Act and the Foreign Regulation. In addition, European Common Aviation Codes are applicable in Norway through the EEA Agreement. As the question may appear to be triggered by the discussion surrounding the use of labour by other airlines outside the Nordic region, it can be mentioned that SAS has a limited number of Chinese and Japanese full-time employees in its workforce. These work as cabin crew on SAS flights between Denmark and China and Japan, where they represent a maximum of 20 pst. by the total cabin crew on individual flights. According to the company, Chinese and Japanese employees work under European working time regulations. The pay terms are mainly set locally, but since the employees work up to 15 pst. by time in Danish airspace, 15 pst is determined. by wages and salaries on the basis of the Danish collective agreement. I would also like to clarify that SAS is a listed commercial company, and the fact that the company is partly owned by the State has no bearing on the obligations or rules to which the company is subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1299	I thank you for your answer. SAS is also a partner in other airlines, and over time it has been characterised as almost slave-like pay and working conditions in individual airlines. This is in order to adapt to the tough competition that we know is in international aviation. Can the Council of State confirm or disclaim that the employment and pay conditions of companies with which SAS is a partner are in charge in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1308	SAS is referred to as a Swedish group of subsidiaries and bases in several Nordic countries, and the different subsidiaries have the laws of different countries to deal with. In addition, they must also deal with this pan-European legislation. At the same time, aviation is a globalised industry, and from time to time, issues that highlight important issues regarding which country’s legislation should apply. The Ministry of Transport is currently working – in cooperation with several other departments – with a wide range of investigations to highlight issues and challenges related to increased competition and globalisation in aviation. This work is expected to be completed during this year – in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1315	Thanks for the additional answer to the question. Finally, I understand that there is a work going on here. Then I just want to ask: will the government follow up this issue also in the case of companies in which SAS has a partnership – as a Norwegian State-owned joint company?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1322	As I mentioned in my previous answer, the Ministry of Transport is working broadly with other departments on the approach to this issue, and we will come back to this when that investigation is completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1331	I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice and Security the following questions: «In June, Stortinget adopted the legislative proposals in Prop. 131 L on terrorist training, participation in terrorist organisations, solo terrorism, etc. [[2012-2013]] It was a unanimous position by the Justice Committee, and during the hearing, among other things, PST actively supports the proposals. The new terrorist laws are being applied now in the autumn and it is important to keep track of their proper functioning. However, the Minister of Justice already warned in the media on 24 October that the new legislation is not adapted to a new situation. What in the new laws is what the Council of State sees need to change?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1340	It is true that I have announced a new review, among other things. by the law of terrorism, despite the fact that the latest amendments to the legislation were adopted by the Stortinget as late as June this year. The background for this is that I see with concern the clearly increasing tendency of young Norwegian citizens to travel to war zones to fight with extreme Islamic groups. Among other things, we see: the situation in Syria. Those who travel are likely to acquire military skills, are more or less traumatised and not least further radicalized. From a terrorist point of view, there are just such people to whom concerns are linked from the security services. This is not least because when they come home they often have a higher status in the environments they move and a greater impact on others who are radicalised or in a radicalisation process. The goal, of course, is to travel as little as possible. Terrorist legislation and possible criminal consequences can be an instrument in this regard. I would also add that the government sees the need for a new action plan to prevent radicalisation and violent extremism. In my view, it is important to make a number of social actors responsible for commitment. This will include, inter alia: for police, school, child protection, health care and non-governmental organisations. It is also important that family and friends help prevent radicalisation and prevent people from travelling from Norway to conflict areas. In such a whole, it's natural to see if there is also a need for any change in the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1349	I thank you for the answer and for the fact that the Minister of Justice takes this very seriously. It is very important for the country and also for the international community. What is my concern is that when the police, prosecution authorities and judiciary are now going to develop a practice to enforce and implement the new laws that we passed before the holiday – among others. a practice towards radicalised environments – is that the laws should not be dissuasive and preventive, that it cannot be understood that there can be six years of punishment, and that it is serious to seek out environments where terrorist training is practised – such as places abroad, for example. Syria. What I'm concerned about is the effect when they hear that these laws are not good enough – that the preventive effect of these laws can be weakened if we give the impression that they are not fully functional. And similarly, when the PST is going to follow up, enforce and develop methods to apply these laws to those people who had to move to these terrorist environments, I'm also worried that they might put it a little bit on hold if there's a expectation that there will be new laws soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1358	I thank you for the supplementary question, because it gives me the opportunity to clarify something that is very important: to the extent that it is relevant to legislative changes, it will not be in a more liberal direction, it will be in a more intensive direction. I am concerned that the government should have a proactive approach to these issues. Here it happens very much, very quickly, and therefore I am also concerned that the law does not have to be static, but that we need to have a dynamic approach to the situation that is evolving. I am convinced that the legislation adopted last round will have a deterrent effect, and it is not appropriate to accept that a failure to implement is pending any regulation. It's not necessarily about major changes, but it's a review of the system and the legislation to see if we can do even more in the situation we're now seeing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1365	That's good. We had a comprehensive hearing for a year before we dealt with the new laws here at Stortinget. We also had a hearing in the Justice Committee. Then we were concerned about the same thing: if the laws could be used, if they could be practised. At the hearing in the committee, the PST said that they were satisfied with the proposals, and the same said, among other things. The National Attorney. What we now need to take very seriously – we have been working on this at Stortinget, and it was unanimous settings and broad excitement – is that it is important for countries and the rich that this works. If the Council of State has the assessment that the laws are not working well enough, it is also important that the Stortinget be informed and that you return to Stortinget as soon as possible. So my supplementary question is, when do you realize that new changes can come to the Storting?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1374	It is not my starting point that the laws do not work well enough. The question is whether we need to look at the possibilities for supplementing the law, and it will also be part of the work that the government has now undertaken very widely with this plan to prevent radicalisation and violent extremism. There may also be a case of regulatory changes that could affect the same law on combating terrorism. I believe the representative of Bohemia and I agree on the importance of the functioning of the laws that have been passed. But I think we also agree that we need to have a proactive approach and see if we can do even more, based on the evolution we see, that happens very quickly. There may be some simple measures that do not necessarily need legislative change, but I think it is important for a new Council of State to go through this whole area to be absolutely sure that we have the most effective law and regulation to combat terrorism.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1385	‘Barnehagen is an important arena for immigrant children to learn Norwegian. Language development in kindergartens in places where the proportion of immigrants is high has been an important priority for the red-green government. Now we see examples of language development being at risk because of it. the sale of kindergartens east of Oslo. What will the Council of State do to ensure good language development for these young people?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1392	I agree with the representative Mandt that the work of the Kindergarten on the development of children's language is important. It's clearly expressed in the government platform, where we say that we want to ‘strengthen the use of Norwegian and language development in kindergarten to prepare children for school and education’. We're going to say that we want to ‘Strengthen language training for all with a minority background’ and ‘provide the necessary assistance to children with poor language skills’. Kinderhagen is a voluntary but important first part of the Norwegian education community and can help reduce social differences. Research shows that good educational interventions in pre-school age provide long-term benefits in terms of better school outcomes and increased participation in work. Any child who reaches the age of one year before the end of August shall be entitled to a nursery seat in the same year if the parents have applied for a nursery place within the time limit for the main admission. The municipality is responsible for fulfilling this right. Kindergarten ownership is of no importance as long as the municipality ensures that there are enough kindergartens available to fulfil the right to space. All kindergartens, both municipal and private, must comply with the Children's Homes Act. The framework plan for the content and tasks of kindergartens is the law and provides guidance for the work of kindergartens. In the framework plan, it says, among other things:\t\t You can change the settings ‘Barnehagen must support the use of children’s native language while actively promoting the Norwegian-language competence of children.’ Municipalities receive an earmarked State grant for measures to improve language understanding among minority language children of pre-school age. The grant sum is based on the number of minority children in kindergarten in the municipality and does not depend on – I stress it – whether the child goes to municipal or private kindergarten. The municipality may choose the facility on its own initiative and may contribute its own resources. I also know that the Oslo municipality has established the Oslobarnehagen project, which, through a better quality management system, quality standards and common arrangements in important areas, wants to create a significant level of quality in Oslo Kinderhager. The Oslo City Council has also made me aware of the goal that all children should be able to Norwegian before school starts, and has provided funds for a language package for kindergartens. The means shall be used for language mapping, language measures for children in need of additional follow-up and the strengthening of the competence of nursery workers. This is in line with the ambitions that are also on the government platform, although I stress that there is a significant difference between the government and the municipality of Oslo. I want to come back to concrete action at national level to fulfill what the government writes on its platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1426	I thank the Council of State for a thorough and good answer, and I am pleased that he is also concerned with good language development among immigrant children. On the other hand, I have noticed that the government has announced that they will extend the cash support. I wonder if the Council of State can answer if he believes that cash support is a good measure to ensure language development among immigrant children.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1433	Cash support, like very many other schemes, will have both advantages and disadvantages. We in the government are concerned that more people are going to go to kindergarten, and during the period we are also going to make suggestions to get this done – among other things. for minority speakers to go to kindergarten. The cash support also has another side to it, and that is that it is for example. provide freedom of choice for parents. That's what this government is also concerned about. Cash support for two-year-olds may also be important because many people have to wait a while in kindergarten. When the previous government took away the cash support for two-year-olds, it meant that many stood without any funds. It is also worth noting that when the previous government reduced the cash support, the ruling from Fafo was clear, namely that this alone increases child poverty. So the government that is currently sitting has said no to cut the cash support and refuse to increase the child's poverty – but it chose the previous government to do differently.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1442	I again thank the Council of State for the answer and record that he defends the cash support warmly, although in my opinion it undermines the possibility of a good language development for immigrant children. Then is my last question to the Council of State: What measures will the Council of State take to counteract the consequences of parents choosing cash support instead of securing children's kindergartens, so that they have a good language before they start school?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1447	I mentioned in my first answer that I will come back to Stortinget with concrete measures to meet the part of the platform that concerns language training. But I want to mention two other things. One is that the policy of the previous government, in which a very rigid maxim principle was maintained in kindergarten, has led to a reduction in the price of a nursery place in practice for those with the highest income. Low incomes benefit less from a low nursery price than those with the highest income. It's a poor distribution policy, and it's also a part of making more people who should have their children in kindergarten, not sending their children there. Therefore, during the period this government will also come back to Stortinget with a system that ensures that those who have poor advice receive lower nursery prices than those who have good advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1456	I would like to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘In a survey in our country on 28 October 2013, it appears that Norway does not have a common system for detecting fraud and plagiarism at the bachelor and master levels. A study also shows that no such system exists in EU countries. Quality in higher education requires institutions to have procedures for detecting and dealing with fraud and plagiarism, including at the bachelor and master levels. Will the Council of State consider establishing a common national system for its management, in cooperation with the educational institutions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1465	Thank you very much for your question. This is a matter that is important, and the first thing that was natural to do was look at what is today's system. Of course, to ensure honesty in higher education and research, there is a need to detect cases of fraud and harassment. This is a work that needs to be given priority by universities and colleges, and my opinion is that this is also done today. I agree with the representative Vinje that it is important for the quality of Norwegian higher education and for the trust in our education system that we have a system that detects and handles fraud. In Norway, we have a national system to prevent, detect and sanction fraud. The University and Higher Education Act lays down the framework for penalties for fraud. In those cases where a student has cheated or tried to cheat on the exam, the law allows the student to cancel the exam and exclude the student from the institution. Complaints about decisions in case of fraud are dealt with by a national appeal body. The annual report of the complainant provides guidance to universities and colleges on the level of proceedings and penalties and contributes to a common understanding of fraud by the sector and penalties in a consistent manner. In addition to a law to facilitate the handling of such matters, an important part of the work of the institutions will be to guide students in the proper use of available information and tools. There are strict requirements for the due diligence of students, and students must also have the necessary insight into academic standards and values as part of the training. In the context of an ongoing revision of the Law on Higher Education, where the consultation period has just expired, the Ministry of Knowledge has proposed some changes to the provisions on fraud. One of the proposals is that cheating can also lead to exclusion. In cooperation with the sector, the Ministry of Knowledge is also working to establish a common register to enable the effective and secure dissemination of decisions on exclusion and the like. The information exchange shall prevent excluded students from being admitted to other higher education institutions during the exclusion period. I believe that we have a fairly good system, which contributes to the punishment of academic dishonesty, while at the same time ensuring the legal certainty of students through access to justice. At the same time, it is important to stress that the proposed changes to the law will in addition make the system better than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1484	I thank you for the thorough presentation. I am pleased that there will be adjustments that might make this system even better, so that we ensure that in the future it will not be easy for any institutions to make local rules that are worse in dealing with fraud and plagiarism in this sector. So thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1489	Then I guess I saw the round of questions as finished, but I can add that I think it's very important that we keep discussing these questions. It's not that this code is written in stone, so we might have to come back to it later, but I believe now that our system is satisfactory, and that we're going a few steps in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1494	Then I understand that the questioner is satisfied with the answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1497	Yes, thank you for that presentation. I can also inform you that I am going to follow up on these matters in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1502	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-06.ana.ud2152e1515	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
