ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e154	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00, if necessary. The President will ask the representatives to stay in the Chamber – if anyone had intended to leave it – because we are now going to deal with the issue. 1-19, before we start the debate on the revised budget. At the second reading, the increase shall give its assent to the legislative decisions so that they can be sanctioned by the Council of State this morning and, where appropriate, referred to at the end of the grubbing-up meeting. The President proposes that we deal with cases No. 1 to 19 below one. - It's passed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e373	No one has asked for the word to any of these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e381	Case No. 1–19 is the second time the legal proceedings relate to Acts 113-131.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e412	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 2 hours and 15 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: The Working Party 45 minutes, the Advance Party 30 minutes, Right 20 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers and the parliamentary leaders of each party group, and up to four lines, with replies from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e423	The revised national budget shows that much is going well in the Norwegian economy. The mechanisms we have built around Norwegian economic policy work well. This ensures that we can further develop the Norwegian model, the Norwegian welfare model and the working life model. Safe economic governance may sound boring, but it's all about the most important things: home security, work, health, education and other important things in life. However, I would like to stress that there are now some warning lights that light up. There are still major problems in Europe, our most important export market, and this contributes to Norwegian export industry having greater problems than before. We have repeatedly warned against believing that Norway will not be left untouched by the very serious situation in the international economy. We have warned against this before, and therefore it is no surprise that there are now clear signs that Norway is hit to a greater extent than has been the case in the past. The situation is fragile. We are also seeing more clearly the distinction between sectors where things are going well and where things are going sadder. This division gets even larger than before. There is no crisis in the Norwegian economy now – it is important to emphasise it – and there is still considerable uncertainty about developments in a number of areas, but let me be quite clear: we see the danger signals – there are uncertainties. Once again, the government's proposals and proposals for the revised national budget show that the government is able to show its power of action. The growth package in relation to the revised national budget is a strong signal to the business community, to entrepreneurs and to workers in competitive industries: we see you, we believe in you, and we are willing to use all means to keep the crisis at a distance. We act again before the crisis occurs, in order to avoid what we have experienced before, namely that good times in the Norwegian economy are replaced by some major setbacks. I have recorded that the opposition considers it surprising that a Labour Party government is proposing tax measures in relation to the revised national budget. There's no need to be surprised. We're not against using the tax system actively, but we have a very pragmatic relationship with using taxes as an instrument. What we're against is a one-sided focus on and the mass that taxes are going to solve most of the problems in society, and we're against losing the common fund for large amounts, like the Right and the Advance Party are calling for. We're in favour of a tax exchange, not a tax reduction. In Norway, we have made it clear that all economists thought was impossible. We have a modern, forward-looking business with creativity and competitiveness, combined with a strong public sector, fair distribution and a tax level that gives us enough money in the fund for joint investment in schools, kindergartens, hospitals, roads, etc. Some try to present it as if the choice for the harvest is a choice between, for example: are for or against private business, for or against entrepreneurs, for or against investments in the future. That's not right. The results speak for themselves: 340 000 new jobs, growth above average in the OECD in recent years, the lowest unemployment in Europe, and I could mention a number of other things, but unfortunately that doesn't allow time – everything we've got, all that's for us. We have shown in practice that we are to trust in these questions. That is why the elections are not about these things. The most important questions in the two-month election are whether we should have safe economic governance, and use the framework tools built around the Norwegian economy, and not create uncertainty about this at a time when economic times seem to be more demanding than they have been in recent years. It's about what we're going to spend the big money on – joint investment in well-being and other things in the public sector, or whether we're going to spend the big money on tax cuts for those who have the most of them. Here the distinction, once again, is made in Norwegian policy – on taxes. And then it's finally in place, on the last day of the election, to get a greater degree of clarification from the opposition – which they say will throw at today's government – both by how they want to govern the Norwegian economy, and not least: how should Right, who has promised $25,000 million? kr in lower tax, or the Progress Party, which has promised itself completely away in tax policy, up to 100 billion. Tax-free, cover these amounts, not only in year 1, but in the next major period? I look forward to getting an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e442	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e445	The Labour Party, and for that matter also the government, has promised to keep the level of taxation unchanged at the 2004 level. In this respect, in various debates, and also in newspapers and in writing, it has been said by the government that tolls and property taxes are not taxes, and that it is irrelevant how that curve goes. In this regard, I was on the website of the Financial Committee's head, Torgeirmicalsen.no, and looked at the ranking of all of these 100 billion crowns that the representative Micaelsen now mentions – there are also some calculation errors. For example, the Progress Party has: not said that we have to remove the entire new registration fee of 21 billion. NOK, but we can come back to that in later lines today. Does the representative Mikalsen think that tolls are taxes, or is it not tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e450	First, I recommend my blog. It is an excellent source of information, in support of the many issues in life and society, and an excellent page where you can find information on, for example, the issue of drug use. Economic policy of the Progress Party. [[muttering in the hall]] That's right, I've taken on the job – along with some excellent calculators in the department and others – through written questions to get a full overview of what the Progress Party has actually promised the voters of lower taxes and taxes. In summary, this is 100 billion. kr. I have repeatedly challenged the Advance Party to say it if there is something that you no longer stand by, no longer promises the voters. Then I'd like to take that away from the list. I have not received a single answer. As far as tolls are concerned, there is not a single toll project in this country without local agreement. It is therefore up to local politicians to decide this. If the Advance Party now does not believe that the country's toll stations should be removed, and that this should be compensated for by the municipalities, crown by crown, I am happy to update my overview.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e457	I noticed that Torgair Micaelsen has discovered that there are some danger signals in the Norwegian economy, and that there are some warning lights blinking. The warning lights have flashed for a long time. When Torgeir Micaelsen is to show that the government has power of action, it is referred to the growth package that was presented in the Hurt and the shower on 5 May. That growth package will be implemented in 2014. If the government had thought that action was urgent, it could be done in the context of the revised national budget, as the bourgeois parties do by prioritising the tax FUNN and improving the depreciation rules for machinery. What the red-green parties do in the revised national budget is cut in the appropriations for research – cut in the appropriations for research in the revised national budget. My question to Torgeir Micaelsen is: Does the Workers' Party believe that it is a good contribution to creating growth and development that the government in revised national budget cuts over 100 million. Do the appropriations for research go to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e466	As I said, it is not a crisis in the Norwegian economy now. I think the representative agrees. If you look at most of the major indicators, you will see that unemployment is low. The employment rate is high. It's relatively useful growth, despite very serious times around us. That's why we shouldn't be hasty. That's why we're not going to do anything crazy. It is therefore right to monitor the situation very carefully and, if necessary, to return with further measures, such as: in the context of the State budget for 2014. What this discussion should be about, on the other hand, is that the main contribution that Norway should make to doing good in economic policy over the next few years is that the Right can remove the tactical considerations in terms of cooperation with the Progress Party on economic policy. Now, unfortunately, I have the impression that it is more important for the Right to win the election than to settle the dispute with the Advance Party about economic policy two months before the election – and instead do it two months after you may have won the election. It's serious, and it's unfortunately for tactical reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e473	I got the impression that the election campaign had begun, when I heard the chairman of the finance committee. Everything we've done, said the representative, Ms. Mikalsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e478	That's very well said.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e483	I guess you can't give better self-esteem. And then we'll see if the voters agree. The mica is trying to make a point that there is uncertainty about a new government and economy. When the Bondevik II government left the rudder in 2005, the economy was fine. It was so fine that the Chief Editor of the Newspaper, Arne Strand, said that the red-green government went to the covered table. Is the representative of Mikalsen disagreed that this was the situation? If he disagrees, what does he justify it with? Finally, ‘do something rash’ – does that mean that we can now at least know that we are not getting a package in the middle of the election campaign that is incidentally adapted to the economic situation and the political situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e493	Only short of the package of measures, the growth package, presented by the government. It was presented on the last Sunday before the revised national budget, in line with how to do that kind of thing when there are exchange-sensitive issues, including: around the petroleum tax. That's why it was presented then. It had nothing to do with other relationships, if I can get to say it that way. What was the situation in 2005? The big difference was that when the parties of the representatives Syversen, Erna Solberg and Lars Sponheim formed a government, they did not have the Progress Party on a slip in economic policy. That's what's now fundamentally new. So for the first time, the Right opens up that now the economic policy and compromises about it should not lie in the centre, towards the party of the Seven – and to the extent that the Labour Party – but to the right of itself, at the intersection between itself and Siv Jensen. That's what's new now. That's this opposition at some point has to deal with. I propose that this be done now, two months before the election – not two months after the voters have been given their word.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e500	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e503	In the context of the revised budget, the Progress Party presents an alternative to the government that stimulates growth and prosperity. The policy of the Progress Party is safe economic governance, not just in words, but in reality. The main lines followed by the party, both in this revised budget and in previous budgets, have been to stimulate the Norwegian economy through tax havens, through good targeted investments, through cutting red tape and through targeted welfare measures. In the budget, we stimulate people to work a little bit more by reducing taxes and taxes. We stimulate investment in Norwegian business by making it a little more profitable to drive from Norway. We propose to remove some bottlenecks in the Norwegian economy, things that increase costs and reduce efficiency, among other things. by investing in road, in rail, in new equipment and in new building mass in health care and in police. These are important measures to make the Norwegian economy go better, precisely to avoid the crisis effects with which the red-greens are now starting to frighten, but with which they do nothing. It's a little interesting that the red-greens say that the only tool the opposition has is tax cuts for those who have the most from before. When you go in and look at the calculations that the government is trying to present, you see that in the tax cuts of those who have the most from before, the tax cuts of the richest – as the Prime Minister himself says – have one even counted the cost of increasing the minimum deduction. So increasing the minimum deduction, which means that ordinary people who make $200,000, don't have to pay taxes until they earn over $100,000, as the Progress Party proposes, is also a tax cut for those who have the most of them. So in a red-green policy in a red-green world, those that already have the most are those that have income. It goes without saying how artificial and false this debate becomes, when one uses such rhetoric. For the most part, people would like to go into the committee leader's blog and see how unreasonable calculations are coming. But if you want to be informed, I recommend the signed blog, solvikolsen.com [[muttering in the hall]] The Central Bank Governor pointed out in his speech in February many things that should concern the government. It has not been GDP growth per capita in the last five years. We have had a large amount of labour immigration, which makes the population grow in numbers, but per person in this country we do not produce more today than we did four to five years ago. Then something is wrong. The central bank manager pointed out that the level of investment has fallen significantly, it is too low. This is particularly true in the business sector, but also in the public sector. There are a lot of people on the outside of the world of work. The government boasts of the employment rate in this country, but if one adjusts for how many people work part-time, we actually work less per person in Norway than one in Norway, for example. Poland. These are the results of a red-green government policy. The Progress Party believes it is important to ensure value creation. Some companies are not doing well today. They're already struggling. Unfortunately, the government is blinded by the fact that the level of investment in the oil sector is very high. But when you're concerned about the two-part division of the Norwegian economy, it doesn't help with average considerations. One has to look at the situation in the different parts of business. When one sees that investment in the mainland industry has been more than halved in a short time, it should call a warning lamp that an actual action is now taking place and not just saying that one is concerned, but waiting for the election campaign before promoting action. When you see that since the red-greens took over, there has been a steady decline in the number of people employed in the woodworking industry, it is not useful to bring a three-processing package one month before a choice. Then one has to come up with measures that have an impact long before, and one has to make sure that the package has measures that actually do something about the situation, and not just a possibility for the government to boast. We've been to Moelven, we've visited Statskog – we've visited a number of the major wood processing companies. The common feedback from everyone is that this package does not help with the problems that exist. It does not help to give money to Investinor, who already bathes in money they are not allowed to use, when the problems are depreciation rules, the investment regime and the infrastructure. Then the money should be used just where the need is great, which would help the entire sector. Unfortunately, one is blinded by the rule of action, because the rule of action, immediately having to invest in infrastructure, supposedly will create inflation. If you give the same money to Investinor instead, they go outside of the rule of action. That's why it's very comfortable, because then the government can boast that they spend less money than the rule of action opens, and that it's a large package of measures. The problem is that the money in the action package does not go where they should, and that is the rule of action that stands in the way of good policy. The Progress Party is very happy that an industrial package came in. We have long pointed out the need for improvement in the tax FUNN schemes, the depreciation rules and the level of taxation in general. It's good that the government now sees the same thing. But it's going to be a embarrassing explanation when the government presents this at another party's national meeting, but the instruments are not going to come into effect until next year. Then this has nothing to do with things being exchange-sensitive. The oil tax is exchange-sensitive. It is now being adopted. It is relevant to have a press conference about, but everything else, of which they really boasted the most, has no relevance in this budget, because we do not adopt any of it. It's just a warning about something that might come, but it's actually a new government that's going to be the ones who adopt and introduce it. Here's a lot of strange explanations, which are really about explaining away instead of being active. The warning lights have flashed for a long time. In 2011, I had an interpellation in this room about the industry's framework conditions. Then the Minister of Industry was more concerned about watching the Ski World Cup on VG's large TV screen on the outside than being part of the debate. In 2007, the Progress Party raised CO2 compensation for industry, precisely because we saw that the government’s climate policy would be involved in destroying the conditions of competition. The answers we received from then environmental protection minister Erik Solheim were that of course the industry had to pay for its CO2 costs, it would be pointless to compensate for the cost of releasing CO2. It was the objective of climate policy to have a price of CO2. Today the tone is a completely different one. Today, the government has chosen the solution of the Advance Party, but it took them six years. It is no more than two years ago that a person who is currently the Council of State in this government, in this room and in the newspaper said that in the choice between developing industry and cutting CO2 emissions we had to cut CO2 emissions and say no to industrial workplaces. It has been practiced by this government. When Alcoa wanted to build gas-based aluminiumworks in Finnmark, the answer from this government was no thanks, we don't want that. It is now suddenly a matter of concern that you do not get industrial jobs, when you see how you have practiced politics in the last seven to eight years. When the revised budget was presented, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister had a small propaganda show, one of the main messages being that they had to spend less oil money than the rule of action provided. A joke of that cut oil money mill with 700 million. kr to avoid overheating. It's quite special when you know that on the outside of the rule of action, this government is adding almost 20 billion in the same budget. kr to different state corporations – to the State pension fund to increase their mortgages, to the House Bank, to the Loan Fund, to Cermaq and many others. So 20 billion. kr through state-owned company has little effect, but if one had used 700 million. In order to improve infrastructure and provide better framework conditions for the wood processing industry, it would have been said to have been very wrong. You know, I don't understand. It's not possible to understand, because there's no logic in that kind of economic thinking. The government says they take everything into account. One also takes account of oil investment, even though they have never been able to quantify it. Then my question is as follows: 18 June the SSB provided new estimates for the oil investments on the Norwegian base. They increase the estimate by 14 billion compared to their February estimate. kr. 14 B.C.E. in the opinion of one of the parties, the oil industry is to invest on a Norwegian base only this year. If we had suggested 14 billion. kr in increased use of money in the state budget, it would have been deeply irresponsible, but this government seems perfectly right that oil investment is increasing by the same amount, without making any change in the revised budget as a result of new information. It shows how artificial this debate is — a debate on the rules of action in which the rule of action does not distinguish consumption and investment, and in which one is unable to see the effects of oil investment, but it is said that it is terribly wrong for a builder or a new hospital in that country. It'll be an artificial debate. It has nothing to do with accountability, it has something to do with rulemaking. That is why the Progress Party will take up all its proposals, in order to generate investments in road and rail, in order to generate investment in the health sector, so that an actual Norwegian economy makes a little more efficient, a little more robust in the fight against the financial crisis, instead of creating a debate that is theoretically artificial and has nothing to do with accountability.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e552	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has addressed the proposals he referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e557	I see that the representative Jan Tore Sanner is going to have the floor after me, so I leave him to answer all the attacks on the economic policy that he and I seem to agree on, and then I leave it. I'll ask you another thing. In the setting of the revised, all opposition parties write ‘that there is a need to release private and non-profit actors that can complement the public’, etc. What I want to ask the representative of Solvik-Olsen is linked to the fact that the Progress Party programme says that the party “will open up to a greater degree of private players in the education system”. Personally and in the Workers’ Party and the Government, we believe that it is most appropriate to invest in the public common school, where we meet across different religions, backgrounds, etc., and have a smaller element of private schools. My question is as follows: Why will the representative Solvik-Olsen and the Progress Party – along with the Right – open up to what I would call a release of private actors, commercial schools, in School-Norway if they win the autumn elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e564	This is probably going to be an artificial debate. The most important thing about Norwegian school is to provide education for children and young people. That's why one goes there, to make sure one's well equipped for critical thinking, in order to do a job to contribute to society. It's the most important thing about Norwegian school. Young people are already free to choose from school today. This means that in order to fulfill the ideals that Torgeir Micaelsen talks about, he has to remove free schooling, if it's the way everyone in a neighborhood – regardless of economics, religion and things like that – is going to go to the same school. It's not happening today. What's different here is not if young people can go to whatever school they want, but if you're going to get a greater variety of schools that young people can choose from. The Progress Party says that if private people can provide education that gives greater diversity, which gives people greater freedom of choice, then it's positive. It is not that only government employees are fit to teach our children. It is our children's needs and desires that must be overwhelming.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e571	In this setting, a broad range of terms support work to ensure that more of the EEA funds for Central and Eastern Europe are channelled into increased support for the space people. The same majority say that there may be different types of action, with a view to increasing employment, increasing school attendance and improving social welfare. The majority believe that voluntary organisations can have actors in the implementation of many of these actions. I really need to express my surprise that the Progress Party, which so often points out that people have to get help where they belong, cannot join this note. Is it really the Progress Party's view that the Stortinge's desire for a stronger emphasis on aid to improve its living conditions in the home country through EEA funds is unhealthy and inappropriate?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e576	No, of course not. If the representative Meltveit Kleppa had read a few more pages in the setting, she would have seen that our remark also goes on the same, but even a little stronger on how to help the rum people in their homeland, instead, as today, let too many come here to beg. We see that in the home countries there are many who express concern about this, who themselves ask the rapporteurs in some of these municipalities that Norway prohibit begging, precisely not to have the economic drive that gets people to Norway. If we are to have a debate on what is good and bad in terms of the situation of the space people and the beggar situation, the representative Meltveit Kleppa should at least stick to the whole of the setting we are discussing, and not make the comment that you are making, and ignore the comment that the Progress Party has few lines afterwards, where we take up the exact same thing, but reinforce it. I would rather say that the representative Kleppa is too weak on this, because she has gone into the wrong comment. Instead of going into the strong comment of the Advance Party, they have a vague remark that means little, but says even less.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e585	The Progress Party has been the 'big spender' of policy every year. It hasn't played such a big role, because they haven't had that much influence in politics. Now Europe is in crisis. We're getting danger signals to Norway. We now have a large party in Norway that has ambitions about government power, which has a program that is so expensive, and a use of money that is so far beyond all that can remind us of financial accountability, that it is difficult to understand that they are serious about it. And my question is, does the Progress Party seriously believe that it is possible to give as much tax relief as they do? That it is possible to spend as much money as they suggest, without harming the economy? How many of these promises are they willing to sell to sit in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e594	The Progress Party is not engaged in ‘Commercial Policy’, where we buy and sell election vows. We stand for what we think makes sense. Otherwise, the SV who had claimed to be a ‘big spender’ – until they themselves entered the government and began to pursue labour party policies. Let me remind the representative that in the revised budget of the Progress Party we propose to spend 3 billion. kr more than the current government – 3 billion. kr in an economy of, depending on how you calculate, between 2500 and 2800 billion. kr. Then it's not 3 billion. kr a very large amount, but it would have been a very important amount to improve the efficiency of the Norwegian economy through the infrastructure and investments in health care and that kind of thing. Let me remind you that in April, the SSB produced a report in which they believe that there is room for 45 billion. kr more in the Norwegian economy only on infrastructure investments, without having an adverse effect. I would like to see Andersen's account, which says that 3 billion. kr is terrible if 45 billion. kr in the SSB model is not terrible. The budget of the Progress Party will cut consumption, cut taxes, but increase investment. That's a good result, says SSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e605	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e609	Norway has a solid economy, and much is still going very well. Together with a resilient business, our natural resources and competences have provided a good basis for growth and well-being over several decades. We now see signs that the economy is slowing down and increasing unemployment. The employment rate is now lower than when the red-greens took over in 2005. I believe, however, that there is little reason to provide doomsday prophecies and crisis scenarios for the Norwegian economy. Equally unfounded are the red-green scares about what can happen if others, other than the Workers' Party, are to govern Norway. As a rule, scare pictures only return to those who come with them. The selectors have for the longest time seen the red-green rhetoric. Everyone knows that a government with the Right keeps order in the Norwegian economy. Much is going well in Norway, but I want to warn the government against a backward attitude, where one is more concerned about scaring Europe than about the problems the red-green policy creates for Norwegian businesses and jobs. Of course, falling demand in Europe affects our export businesses. But the crisis particularly affecting parts of Europe has nothing to do with it. Everything is not completely black either. Several countries are now implementing fundamental reforms, cutting costs and increasing their innovation power. It can in the long term reinvigorate Europe. Vice-Chancellor Steinar Juel said it very clearly the last time the Prime Minister was out warning against the situation in Europe. To DN.no he said on 28 February that Stoltenberg ‘should be far more concerned about the problems we have caused ourselves.’ And the signs are clear. If we look at the hourly wage costs in the industry, they're now 70 pst. higher than our trading partners. In our reign they were about 20 pst. higher. While competitiveness remained unchanged in our time, it has been weakened under red-green rule. Looking at productivity growth, which is absolutely crucial in terms of what can be taken into account in increasing wages or improving competitiveness, it is now low, and it has over time been lower than our trading partners. We have special taxes that affect businesses and jobs owned by the Nordics, while foreign interests, which compete in the Norwegian market, are exempt from, among other things. taxes on wealth. We're cutting low on innovation, and we're spending less on industrial research than our neighboring countries. It should be a cross-section of mind that while we are in second place in the world in terms of appropriations for social research, which is good and good, we are only in 22nd place in terms of investment in natural science and 27th place in terms of technical science. It may not be so strange when we have a Minister of Industry who believes that it is not so dangerous that Norway does not do better in terms of innovation. We also see that many enterprises – especially small and medium-sized ones – experience capital droughts. Partly because we have weak private ownership environments in Norway, but also because of special capital requirements for banks, which have led banks to slow down lending, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is time for the Workers' Party to take on board the fact that the red-green policy reinforces the negative consequences of falling demand from Europe. I record that Torgeir Micasen, the Minister of Finance and also the Prime Minister say that now the warning lights have begun to flash. The warning lights have flashed long, they. There have been signs from industry, businesses and workplaces over a long period of time about the flashing of warning lights. It is linked not only to falling demand from Europe, but also to strange demands and strange challenges that are a consequence of policy at home. In addition to business, the Right and the other bourgeois parties have over time focused on the challenges that should be addressed. We see a stronger two-way division of Norwegian business. We also see that Norway has become more oil dependent after eight years of red-green rule. The welfare state has become more vulnerable to oil prices. Norwegian jobs have become more vulnerable in terms of oil prices. The heritage of the government of Stoltenberg is a more oil-dependent country. I record that the head of the finance committee says we should not be hasty, and that we will act if necessary. No one is in doubt that packages will come if necessary. There have been many packages under the red-green government, and the content of those packages is to no avail. The package is quite excellent, although it is inadequate. The yard package was also excellent, and there will certainly be new packages. What is lacking is a long-term strategy to build Norway as a knowledge nation and strengthen our competitiveness. That's where it's failed under the red-green government. You look from one package to another and from one state budget to another. But in terms of the strategy of building Norway as a knowledge nation, strengthening our competitiveness and ensuring that we can ensure growth and well-being in the coming years, the red-greens have failed! And there's a right and the other bourgeois parties have an alternative. We say we want to bet on the teachers. We want to focus more on continuing education and more on knowledge and quality in school. We say that we want to establish leading university environments in Norway, make sure that we have Europe's best universities, and that we can have some of the leading university environments in the world. We want to make Norway one of Europe's most innovative countries, among others. by investing far more in nutrient research. We want to invest more in infrastructure and growth-promoting tax relief, as was once agreed when we established and put in place the rule of action. In the revised national budget, the four bourgeois parties stand together in very many areas. And in the last few years, the bourgeois parties have gathered in many policy areas: volunteering, for poor children, to cut health cows, to lift weak patient groups, to lay a better foundation for business, for entrepreneurs, for small and medium-sized enterprises, and to ensure that more of the oil money we are going to spend into the Norwegian economy is used for what they were going to spend, namely investment in knowledge, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax relief. This revised national budget also includes civil parties. to accelerate parts of the growth package, as announced by the government but to be introduced in 2014. We're strengthening it, too. While the government cuts in research into revised national budgets, we have a strong commitment to SkattenFUNN and to nutrient research. We improve the depreciation rules for machinery so that the companies with capital can invest in new technology. We promise to volunteer and to weak patient groups. One of the most important tasks we have in the field of health and care policy in the coming years is to lift the tide and psychiatry – make sure that those who have been sitting at the bottom of the table get to the top of the table. Therefore, it is a good sign that the civil parties in the revised national budget are united on important measures in terms of both drug use and psychiatry. With these words, I take up the proposals that the Right presents alone or together with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e654	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e659	It is well and good to agree on things you already agree on. When particular emphasis is also placed on increased public expenditure, without responding to how it is to be recovered, it is no more impressive. I agree with many of the proposals made here by Mr Sanner. But the problem is that Sanner’s proposal, along with the Progress Party, is on a shattering ground wall. It's not very difficult to agree on what you agree on. What's hard to agree on is what you don't agree on. I record that there are now two months to the election, and Jan Tore Sanner and Right are therefore willing to take the Advance Party into the government offices without a clear relationship with the basic wall of economic policy. That's why he's going to have one last chance. And I don't want to hear about how Sanner negotiated the state budget or about budgetary settlements here in the Storting ten years ago. I do not want to hear about what the money will be used for. I want to answer the following: Can Sanner guarantee that he will not discuss with Jensen how much oil money will be used in any new government? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e668	At least everyone can assume that there will be no flexibility in speaking time regarding today's meeting. Once we've adopted 1 minute for a line, it's because we've meant 1 minute and not 1 minute and 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e671	What the representative Micaelsen hears, I guess I'm the one who decides – not the Micaelsen. Of course – like the Workers' Party – we will discuss how much oil money is to be spent. I guess the red-green government has also discussed how much oil money to use – if you want to use 3 pst. The rate of return, whether to use 3.3 pst, or whether to use 3.7 pst. Of course, the amount of oil money to be used must be discussed in relation to the economic challenges to be met. But what Torgeir Micaelsen knows is that with the Right in government, you keep the economy in order. The fear that Torgeir Micaelsen has, I'm a little uncertain about whether he really has. He doesn't share it with so many others. Perhaps with Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen and Jens Stoltenberg, but economists and analysts who have spoken out. in today's business, says that with the Right in government there is no reason for the feared representative Torgeir Micaelsen to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e678	There is an increasing international consensus that the level of economic differences in a society has much to say about living conditions, quality of life and growth opportunities for different countries and that societies with small differences are better off than societies with great differences. From being a controversial issue in Norwegian politics, where the right often said that there was no difference, but important that the cake grew, I am glad that the right rhetoric has changed. Also the Right now talks about that small differences are an important value in Norwegian society. But the tax regime proposed by the Right in 2013 would have increased the economic differences in Norway because it gives the largest tax havens to those who have the most from before. My question is whether Jan Tore Sanner can explain to us whether the policy he chooses for the autumn will increase or decrease the differences in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e689	It's not just the Right that emphasizes the importance of small differences and that there is a strength in our society. That's what all the bourgeois parties do, and we're committed to lifting weak groups. The representative Lightbakken went to the elections in 2005 to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke. There have been several poor children under the red-green government. So if the red-greens had been busy lifting weak groups, they could vote in favour of the bourgeois proposals that have been put forward now. As far as tax arrangements are concerned, Lysbakken and SV have supported the proposal of the Minister of Finance to cut corporate tax. It also gives the most tax relief to those who have the most history — if it's the rhetoric you're most concerned about. But we are concerned about the consequences of the policy, and the consequences of our tax proposals, are strengthening Norwegian-owned businesses and Norwegian-owned jobs, so that they get more capital to be robust and invest for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e694	There were two very different posts that I now listened to after each other, from two parties that aim to be together in government. Transport is one of several areas where the Progress Party and the Right have a completely different view. Right wants OPS, Progress Party won't. Right supports local toll initiatives, the Progress Party says no in plenary. Right stick to the rule of action. For the Progress Party, there is a rule that they ignore. If these two parties, on the other hand, were to be expected, would have multiples after the choice, what would they be guided by? It's still completely in the blue. We've been presented with a wobbly foundation wall.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e703	It is now due to Mr. Kleppa's account. If you read the vote on the revised national budget, and if you read the 15 pages that the civil parties have written on together in the Perspective Communication, you will see a clear direction. Yeah, there's four games with four different programs, just like the red-green games are. It is not the case now that the Centre Party and the Workers' Party agree on all issues, the EEA is a matter where the Centre Party creates uncertainty. But we have a clear direction, also in terms of infrastructure. The four bourgeois parties want to invest more in infrastructure, we insist on what was the original objective of the rule of action, namely to use new oil crowns for infrastructure investment, knowledge and growth-promoting tax relief. And the four batches agree that OPS – public–private cooperation – is a good development method to see planning, deployment and operation in one context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e708	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e711	The government’s proposal for a revised national budget is an important contribution to the stable development of the Norwegian economy. The situation in Europe is still serious, with high unemployment and economic crisis affecting the population severely. The measures proposed in the revision are a growth package for business with a package of measures for the forest sector, a contribution to strengthening the competitive situation for industry. In addition, the oil tax, which reduces the depreciation of the petroleum sector, is reinforced by a measure to mitigate the high investment growth that has contributed to the significant cost growth and the two-fold division of the Norwegian economy. One of the main objectives of the economic policies of the government parties has been to balance the differences in society, to keep employment up and to reduce unemployment. We have made this clear despite a significant economic crisis and record high unemployment in Europe – 350 000 new annual works since 2005, and the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, against a European average of 12 p.m. Despite the low unemployment rate, lately we've recorded that unemployment has increased somewhat in this country too, it's worrying. The government must follow developments closely and be prepared to put in place exceptional measures if the situation so requires. The revision proposes to launch a number of major construction projects, university buildings in Trondheim, Bergen and Ås. The size has this week adopted the National Transport Plan, where the road and rail framework is increased by 500 billion. kr. Yesterday, next year's framework for the municipal sector was adopted, with an increase of 6.5 billion for municipalities. kr. The sum of this will help to keep the activity up and unemployment down. Of the individual measures in the draft budget as revised, which I would like to highlight in particular, are: start-up of the new university buildings in Trondheim, Bergen and the Ås package of measures against the strong price increase in the housing sector 400 more student housing than planned in 2013, totaling 1,500 new increased taxes on housing number two increased loan frameworks for the Husbank and increased grants for rental dwellings. In fact, the sum of the measures seems to be starting to work. The price increase is flattening, there are several good measures for the environment, changing the car charge, making it cheaper to buy environmentally friendly hybrid cars, more for the railways and upgrading the Oslo Tunnel and the Ofot Railway. A sound economic policy, a robust tax system, a predictable use of oil money through the rule of action, are key cornerstones of Norwegian policy. It has ensured the funding of the welfare state, while ensuring growth and new jobs in industry and business. This has been grouped together by the government parties in two government periods, and we will continue this in the next period. In this very central area of Norwegian policy, the right side breaks down as a staur in all directions – from the tax relief of the Progress Party for 100 billion. krone class and increase of the national transport plan framework by 1000 billion. kr, to the right who will use less oil money than the government and tax credits for 20-25 billion. the class of krone, while also increasing the expenditure side significantly for school, education, transport, OPS, research, etc. This isn't close to hanging out. This is a policy to weaken the welfare state and to increase unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e749	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e752	For eight years now, the government has boasted that everything is going so well with Norway, and that it is due to government policy. The rule of action has become a creed, as today's Business has confirmed. There'll be progress, there'll be growth, there'll be fewer poor people – there'll be nothing but joy and fun and more in work. On the last day after eight years in Stortinget, the head of the Financial Committee warns against going against bad times. Does the representative Hansen agree that things are going against bad times? If all the progress is due to the policies of the Workers' Party, the SVs and the Center Party, is also due to the decline that is now coming, the policy of the same government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e757	We have always said that we have managed to keep unemployment down and create new jobs, despite bad times in Europe. We've said that we're going to keep going. I just said in my speech that it is worrying that unemployment is now increasing in Norway, and the government must be willing to take action if necessary, as it did in 2008 in the event of the previous crisis, and that helped us to keep unemployment down. The consequence of the government’s economic policy is that we are able to keep unemployment down and create new jobs in Norway and maintain and develop the welfare state. That is the consequence of our policies. That will not be the case with the policies of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e762	For the right, it is very important with high quality in Norwegian school. It has been important for us in our main budget and revised budget throughout the major period. In the revised budget of the year, we add that 1 750 additional motivated teachers will receive the training that not only their parents and principals want them to get but the teachers themselves want. After many years of red-green management, there is a queue for the training of motivated teachers. The right has a proposal that both removes some financial responsibility from the municipalities and reduces the proportion of teachers themselves. What makes SV think it's okay that almost 2,000 motivated teachers are in line to get even better and to strengthen the Norwegian school, thus voting against the Right's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e769	Norwegian school is going well. The results show that the level, including in mathematics, for Norwegian students are better than in the Swedish school run by a bourgeois government with the Moderates in the head. We spend more money on the training of teachers. We propose that in the 2013 state budget, we propose that in the revised version, and we will also propose that in the 2014 state budget. We have earmarked and strengthened the training of teachers, especially in all our budgets, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e774	I noticed that there was not so much mention of poverty in the posts of the representative Hansen, nor when it was about what was involved in the revision. If we look back before the 2005 elections, it was a specialty from SV to attack the then government for lack of action against poverty – not only did you attack materially or innocuously, you had quite an infame attack on people. When the representative now looks back on eight years, we have about 100,000 poor children – and I confess that combating poverty is not a simple matter, so I'm not going to fall into the same rhetoric that SV did eight years ago, I'm going to ask in a slightly neater way – what does SV think the government should have done more of, so that we hadn't had up to 100,000 poor children?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e779	This government has done a great deal to combat poverty. We've spent 4 billion. kr – earmarked – directly against poverty reduction. We do a lot on the most important problem, the challenge of putting people into work. We have the Job shine that is aimed directly at immigrant women, who are going to get them out of poverty. We have expanded kindergartens in Norway in large measure and reduced parental pay. It means a lot to child poverty. Many of the things we have proposed have voted against the Christian People's Party. We see that we need to continue to strengthen efforts to combat poverty in the coming years. We have made that clear in our programme proposals, and we will also be doing so in the next parliamentary term. We have done a great deal — more than any other country in Europe — to combat poverty, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e790	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e793	We now have two Soria Moria statements to summarise. The red-green government has delivered. At international level, there is a safe and prudent revision of the budget, but with particular regard to national developments. The centre party will bring the whole country into operation. We are pleased that the government has found room for forest and wood processing packages and the growth package for reinforced transport, for more means to health and school, for action plan against social dumping. We know that it means more equal opportunities, more opportunities to live, you and work in the whole country. 53.2 million. kr more to broadband means a total of 150 million. in 2013 until faster expansion of broadband in the area of the market does not reach. We've delivered. In large and important areas, however, we would like to do more: through the distribution policy, giving people equal opportunities; through regional policy, taking full use of the country; through the climate policy, continuing to work towards the renewable society. The goal must be established: Cohesion Norway in front of Market Norway. This week, Stortinget has discussed issues that say more about it: an offensive national transport plan for safer, faster and simpler transport, a municipal economy for enhanced welfare, an agricultural business with a future, a housing policy that takes seriously that everyone needs a housing to organize their lives from within, and tomorrow's care. I can name even more areas where the government has warned to increase bet, and where the opposition's proposals will give a weaker and more uncertain effort. In the Center Party, we are proud and happy for what we have achieved. We would like to continue our cooperation – of course, there are the three parties between them from time to time – where, together with the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party, we develop a holistic policy for the benefit of people and countries. Many have believed that the four parties that make up the opposition would develop a common government platform during the spring. It's not like that. All that's ready for now is that Right is going with it. Apart from it, the notes in the revised national budget reinforce the differences between these four parties. Tax, welfare, economic policy, districts, aid and culture show different priorities. In transport, agriculture and local economy, inequalities have intensified this week. We do not see the lack of a trade-off between the opposition parties at least in the Progress Party's proposal on tax and tax breaks to contribute to a more moderate wage settlement next year. The plural, any other party, rejects this with a number of comments - the prom is hard-knocked. It's tidy of the Progress Party, but there's no doubt that marking a particular position seems to be more important for the Progress Party than building alliances with parties that they refer to as government partners in a different context. The Christian People's Party and the Left seem to have greater ability to find alliance partners, but often as well on the red-green side, as on the blue side. Care policy is a testament to the solidarity we show between those of us who are in particularly challenging or difficult situations. The Ministry of Local Affairs, the Ministry of Labour and several other departments are important here. Let me highlight today measures that have received money from the health budget: a programme for a forward-looking related policy, everyday rehabilitation, more activity in elderly centres and a national competence centre for culture, health and care. I believe that care needs to be developed locally, preferably in close dialogue with the related and voluntary sectors. Then care is also about how we meet those who come to Norway as asylum seekers, as jobseekers or even as beggars. In the revised national budget, the low-value measures for a more dignified life are also for those who beg, while as a broad majority want to benefit more from EEA funds for Roma in their home country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e814	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e817	Several have said that the warning lights are blinking. They have flashed long in the forestry industry. It's worn for a long time. An action package with limited effect has been promoted. The investor has given more money to a full cash register, but that industry asks, they do not. Such a package should have been unnecessary if the government had been predictive – if they had listened to the industry in time, and followed the many advice given by the industry, and not least followed the many proposals made by the Progress Party on investment in the road network and improvements in depreciation rules. Doesn't Meltveit Kleppa see that there is a lack of action in red-green policy that has created the problem? Why does the government sit on the fence and see that problems develop into a crisis before they come up with solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e827	For a long time, the government has had a close dialogue with the forest and wood processing sectors just to find out the right measures. The first measures were already revised last year. We have followed up the page then, we are now submitting a package in revised form, and we are going to follow the situation closely into the 2014 budget. Traffic is one of the measures now being implemented in the revised budget, both in the rail and road sectors. With the progressive party's solutions, I dare not to predict, but I am glad that this government is handling this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e836	In the revised government budget, the government proposes 10 million. in exceptional appropriations for county offices to bring down the queue in municipal and state overarching. For the Right, municipal autonomy is quite important. We see that for some reason the government has chosen to maintain that it is the Ministry of the Environment that deals with all issues of objection, whether environmental, housing or industry. Right-wing desire to do this is to move the opposition institute away from the Ministry of the Environment and transfer it to the Ministry of Local Affairs to show that the Right wants to strengthen municipal autonomy and reduce the state objections that have grown and grown over eight red-green years. It is high time to move the objections from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of Local Affairs. Does the Center Party agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e847	The centre party and the right have many common positions in relation to municipal self-government. The big difference we saw when Right had taken over the municipal minister and the centre party. Then there was a situation where the municipalities really had the ability to do their many tasks. Strengthening the local economy has been the most important contribution to strengthening municipal self-government. Then there is a need for a clearing and a simplification when it involves total planning, when it owes the counterinstitution. And I've been happy to notice that the government has put forward proposals for trials in that area, so we'll see more about that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e854	I noticed that the president of the Central Party at a press conference recently said that the Left is an urban party. I do not agree with that, of course, but if the representative Meltveit Kleppa agrees with that, she can elaborate on it, seen in the light of e.g. revised?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e859	Of course, how Left looks at its own situation, left is the foremost to perform. However, it is true that there is an impression – and it is the Left itself included in its proposals – that the Left does not have the district profile that they had in their time. Transport is one example, and the left's view of agriculture and different rural policies is another example. I look forward to Borghild Tende clarifying that this is a misunderstanding, but there's enough work to do for Borghild Tende to show it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e868	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e871	I actually intended to start by saying some words about what we agree on in this setting, and which I think is pleasing. The representative of Meltweit Kleppa mentioned the consensus on EEA funds and how they can be used towards countries where there are major social challenges — and we have specific challenges for the space people. I am very pleased that there is agreement for the next term of office with regard to the EEA Agreement and agreement with the EU, but also with regard to the funds remaining for the current term of the agreement. In addition, we believe from the Christian People's Party that it is important to bet directly. We have many organisations working in both Norway and, for example, Norway. Romania, and they can do an excellent job. We're going to spend money on that. The last day before we go out on a summer vacation – a little summer vacation, at least, and soon it’s a choice – I’m not surprised by the majority’s hammering on how bad it will look in the homeland if someone other than the red-green gets control. It's a recipe. I am pleased with the consensus of the non-socialist parties in this revised budget. For me, a revised budget is an opportunity to do something about what is needed urgently. That's what the government is doing to a small extent, they're pushing pretty much all the way to next year. And I don't ignore the fact that it also fits best in a strategy where there are going to be some packages like that. in the middle of August and a few weeks in the future. There are 3,000 who are in line for treatment in our drug institutions. We could do something about that. That's what the opposition is doing. It is particularly serious when we have treatment institutions that have to be shut down because places are not being used. We have challenges in terms of child poverty – not in 2014 but now. The opposition is doing something about this and is giving 70 million. kr for emergency measures. We have family protection – and we talk prevention – that is actually in an acute crisis. From the Christian People's Party we're doing something about it now. We can't wait for the waiting lists to go even further. We're doing something for the business community, so it can now work, both in the tax FUNN, start-up writings and other depreciation rates. Yes, this government has kept the economy in order, that's good. So will a new government. That's not the foremost accusation on my part regarding this government. But there's something I want to call a belief in the sitting system that is now manifesting, and that it needs to be shaken up in -- literally. I'll give you some examples. The merger with Oslo University Hospital – it is soon only a few red-green politicians who think it was a process that ended well. We have major problems in the hospital system, and it is significant when the Departmental Council of Anne Kari Lande Hasle says that the reason for such a major reform, which brings together Health South and Health East, was that there was disagreement between the Rikshospitale and Ullevål. That's why they made that kind of organisational change. Then a completely different political governance is needed. And what's the reason why a Voss station is going to be built, which is going to cost 50 million? And then the final sum is 350 million. kr – seven times more. Then there's something about the system that needs to be cleaned up, in which I don't believe this government is in power. And when the police study shows an organisation that has gone on offer to the general citizen, and that offer has been weakened and you are not present when people need it – then it is clear that it is the system that has failed. I don't think it's the government that's sitting now, that's going to be able to do something about it – either. I could mention many other issues: emergency networks, etc. We need a new government. The Christian People's Party shall contribute to this. With this, I address our proposals, including the distributed one, that show another case where the government has failed: asylum children.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e892	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the proposals he referred to, both those included in the vote, and those distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e897	Every time I hear the representative of the Syversen and other representatives from the Christian People's Party speaking, I would say that I hear representatives from a clear welfare party. It is also in the history of the Christian People's Party. Now the Christian People's Party says that they want a new government and another government, and what we've heard the representative of the Syversen talk about here today, and earlier, is that they're very clear that there are two fundamental features that must be the basis of an alternative government. It is a clear fiscal policy, and it is an implemented commercialisation of welfare systems. It is written in their programmes, and it is written in particular in the programmes of the Progress Party. What is relevant is to ask the representative of the Syversen in such an image: how does he think that the Christian People's Party's tradition as a welfare party can be implemented in cooperation with the blue-blue parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e906	This will be proved by the fact that our policy is so good that it will put its stamp on a new government. And we have well shown, I believe, that after several rounds in the government offices, we have been able to take care of what I fully agree with the representative of Kolberg in: emphasising well-being. But let me also add: for us, there is a difference between a welfare state and a welfare society. Here we'll probably get a little bit different from the party of the representative Kolberg. In our opinion, there are three pillars in society under which we need to build up. Of course, it's public, it's private, and then it's civil society. In our opinion, it is the right balance, and I would like to remind you that it was not the public that started neither hospitals nor drug care institutions; it was people in non-profit institutions that saw what was needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e913	In his speech, the representative Syversen mentioned the need for a new government to get control of cost excesses and perhaps not talk so much about what I perceive as the Christian People's Party's heart matters. I feel that we have had a good cooperation with the Christian People's Party in Stortinget just about the issues the party mentions as heart issues: refugee policy, asylum children, care for the weak, poor, climate policy and development policy. Does the representative Syversen agree with the view that these are areas where SV and the Christian People's Party have much in common? Isn't it a little naive to think that if the Christian People's Party establishes a government with the Right Party and the Advance Party, we will have a policy that is closer to what the Christian People's Party sees as its heart matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e921	Now I mentioned child poverty, volunteering and the health and social part of the political field, and I see that as pretty close to our core areas. I totally agree with Lars Aegean. We have contact points with SV in terms of social measures. I fully acknowledge that. But I do not feel that this is contrary to what the Right Party and the Advance Party also stand for in many contexts. They also want to raise those who might need it the most. The representative of Egeland also mentions the asylum children. I think it was quite significant that when we had the last broadcast, as the representative of the Aegean probably remembers, State Council No Marte Thorkildsen was asked in the evening by the NRK: doesn't the Council of State think this broadcast is embarrassing? Then the responsible state council answers: it's bad. Then it tells me a lot about a government that is about to rot, and that does not have a consensus you should have in the kind of things.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e930	I would like to give the representative Syversen an opportunity to answer the representative Kolberg's question: How will the Christian People's Party in a blue-blue government perform its commitment and image as a welfare party? Here it is then a wobbly foundation, a great disunity about everything from the rule of action to the size of tax bills and to many of the Christian People's Party's important areas. How can the Christian People's Party as a whole think that they will still keep the vignette 'welfare party' in such a government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e937	At least I understand that the longer the representative Kleppa thinks about it, the worse she thinks it is. It was clear in the way this line got disfigured. But I want to take the rule of action first. It's kind of polite, because now the councillor Arnstad is sitting here. I almost want to remind Meltveit Kleppa of what the councillor Arnstad said about the rule of action a few months before she and her party went into the government, but I am a polite man, so I shall leave it. But the representative Meltveit Kleppa can be absolutely certain of one thing – if the Christian People's Party joins the government, we will put a different color on the Norwegian community. We're ready to do that, because we have a political basis that makes us proud to say, well, this is a basis on which we can steer forward, and then we're going to do much better than the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e944	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e947	We are at the last day of the meeting of the last major session in this period. It is a day of reflection – but also to look forward to it. The left has been in opposition for eight years with a majority government, where all of our well-prepared alternative budgets and proposals have been voted down. I guess this hasn't made every day a party, but we've come to be stronger and more combative out of all these years. We have an important job to do in the world's best country to live in. I want to mention four challenges: Over 100,000 children grow up this year in low-income families in Norway, and 74 000 children in families with persistently low incomes. There have been several poor children after eight years of red-green government – as ‘only’ was about political will. At the same time, 2 700 people are in line for drug treatment. the unwillingness of the government to use private solutions. 13 000 people are in line for mental assistance. The cows are growing. 9,000 unskilled jobs as teachers in Norwegian school. The SSB has calculated that there will be a deficiency of approx. 11,000 year-olds in Norwegian school in 2020 if nothing happens. With today's pace and appropriations, it will take between 30 and 40 years to provide all teachers in Norwegian school with some form of continuing education. International surveys show that fewer and fewer Nordics want to start their own business. Norway is in the 17th place of 34 countries in Europe in terms of investing in innovation. Only half of the projects supported by Innovation Norway are considered innovative. That's how I could still have. Public sector and bureaucracy have grown: for every four metres of railway construction, one new railway bureaucrat is employed. The train between Oslo and Bergen takes longer today than it did in 1975. In all these areas, the Left is proposing a more offensive and clearer course today. We propose structural interventions and increased appropriations for a necessary commitment to school, education and research, a forward-looking and innovative industrial policy, an ambitious environmental and climate policy and a targeted policy on poverty reduction, psychiatry and care for the elderly, and to facilitate the participation of more people in the labour market. There is a broad political consensus that it is knowledge that we must live on in the future. Then we have to bet, not just talk. It is difficult to understand that the government does not use the chance to increase the funding of universities and colleges, all the time we know the number of applicants for higher education continues to grow. The least we could have expected from the government was that savings of 232 million. The EU Framework Programme for Research — as a result of a better exchange rate than expected — channelled to more research in other areas. For the Left, the key to a good school is better and more motivated teachers. The left has proposed a number of measures in the UK to achieve this, both in terms of teacher training, continuing training for teachers, better working conditions and a simpler day-to-day school, and we follow this up in the revised budget with an overall increase in school and teacher spending of 380 million. kr. The left proposes an additional allocation of 150 million. kr for training/teacher lift and an additional 150 million. In order to increase the state funding for further training of teachers by 10 p.m., an estimated 3000 teachers — twice as many as the government provides — will receive the necessary continuing training. Left cannot accept slicing and cutting in research and higher education. We need to increase the annual appropriations for basic research, focus on environmental and climate research, and provide economic incentives for business and others to invest more in research, including: by strengthening the TAX FUNN scheme. The left proposes an overall increase in research and higher education spending of about 550 million. kr i revised, e.g. an increased commitment to industrial research of 75 million. kr. The left also proposes 1000 more places of study than the government’s plans to meet the increasing candidate mass in the autumn’s admission and a doubling of efforts to build more student homes. We need many, many more new businesses in the future if we are to ensure well-being for future generations. If we're going to do this, we're going to have to make sure that more people start on their own -- not least women. We then have to remove all discriminatory rules and arrangements for self-employed workers. There needs to be better tax rules, better social arrangements, simpler regulation and better access to risk capital. The left proposes an overall increased investment in small businesses and businesses of 425 million. kr and a targeted tax relief for business of about $1150 million. kr in our draft revised national budget. I would like to point out in particular proposals to strengthen the social rights of the self-employed, among other things. by granting approximately 105 million. SEK to increase compensation for own illness from 65 to 80 p.s., reintroduce grants for unpaid labour input into the SkattenFUNN, strengthen the environmental technology scheme and grant scheme for growth enterprises, establish a new scheme of grants for innovative public acquisitions and establish a Norwegian model of the Swedish Innovation Bridge. The government enumerates the impression of prioritising oil to the environment. Nor in this budget does it follow up the agreement of the climate agreement on improved support schemes for energy efficiency improvement and replacement of oil fires in private homes. In addition, I and the Left believe that there is a need for a binding escalation plan to focus on rail and public transport. For this reason, the Left proposes increased appropriations for rail, other public transport, bicycle routes and environmentally friendly transport solutions of approximately EUR 15 million. 460 million. kr. The left will give priority to those who need the public's help most. More children and families of children need to be lifted out of poverty. In the 2009 election campaign, the Left took the initiative of a joint commitment to reduce the number of poor children and families with children. It was all agreed in the election campaign, but when the Stortinget dealt with proposals from the Left on a common action plan to combat poverty, the government parties' support had disappeared. This was repeated when the size last year dealt with the distribution message. There were no concrete promises, and the government parties voted in favour of all of the 25 concrete proposals of the Left to solve the growing poverty, but unfortunately we see among children and families in Norway. The same thing happened in Stortinget Tuesday this week. Proposals on a proposal from the Left and the other opposition parties were voted down in turn and in the order of the government parties. It is sad, and sadly, it is for the children who live in permanent poverty. The left therefore proposes to grant a total of about 1 billion. to various measures to combat poverty at national and international level, inter alia. several targeted actions to allocate 425 million. SEK to increase the social assistance rates by approx. 20 pst, or equivalent NOK 1090 more per month. for a single social welfare beneficiary. The government and government parties now have a last opportunity to show that they are serious about the ‘political will’ to combat poverty. My heartfelt appeal is to show this today. At the end of the day, I will address the proposal from the Left, which has been distributed in the Chamber, and which the President of the Left will justify in a later article. In addition, I take up the Left's proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1001	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1006	It is possible – it is usually an advantage – to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. All parties in this room agree that it is important to invest in the teacher, in all possible ways – basic, continuing training, pay, working environment, construction and equipment. In general, more respect and trust must be shown towards that profession. But the students are the fewer who are concerned about, unfortunately, because learning is an interaction. Both parties must be motivated, learning and learning, and in this respect both well-being and health are important keywords. That is why more and more professional experts and more and more political parties say, fortunately: school food. It is important for health and it is important not least for learning. In fact, Norway is now one of the exceptions in the world that have not realised it, and then acts. Why has the Left got so wrong in the debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1011	Thank you for that question. In the case of school food, the Left has actually given priority to deprioritizing it, simply because we give priority to the knowledge and training of teachers. I'm a teacher myself – lecturer – I know what it means to be re-trained, for example. in ICT, so the students aren't better than us in that field. Then I am a little disappointed that SV does not vote for our proposal on VAT exemptions on fruit and vegetables. It is a glittering measure to be able to live healthier.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1018	The left says they're busy with climate. The left often refers back to the climate agreement in Stortinget. Then the Left will cut support for forest motorways and the highest in steep terrain, and justifying that forest car roads are ‘the greatest threat to non-interventional nature in Norway’. However, the Climate Communication includes an active forest policy as an important tool for reducing climate change emissions. Forest captures CO2, especially young forest in growth. This is why Stortinget ended up in new forest measures, including: for fertilisation and planting. Forest is a renewable resource and provides raw material for bioenergy and wood that can replace fossil raw materials. Does Left mean there's too much activity in the forest extraction today? Is the left indistinguishable in the climate communication its emphasis on active forest policy as part of Norwegian contribution to reducing CO2 emissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1029	Forest highways have persecuted me all the years I've been sitting on the Storting! [[Laughter]] I hope, when I leave now, that I am remembered for something more than forest roads. And it's amazing then, that a former Minister of Transport is most concerned with forest roads. There is little revised – that’s the Left’s priority, and now I notice that there are actually parties among the red-green also who believe that the Left is right that it is wrong that the state subsidizes forest roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1035	There are worse things than being persecuted by than forest roads! The left is talking a lot about creating more fair distribution and combating child poverty. We know that in recent years, despite an international trend, the government has really made it clear to reduce the differences between people in Norway. One of the two most important ways to do this is to give people work. There, the Left proposes opening up more temporary jobs, which will create uncertainty for future work. At the same time, we know that the Left is going in to remove the wealth tax, which very much contributes to creating a more even distribution among people, and which would actually give the 500 richest in this country over 3 million. kr each in tax bills. Does the Left really believe that the introduction of temporary employment and the elimination of wealth taxes help to reduce the differences between people in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1044	Now it's with temporary employment worst, I kept saying, in the public sector, so the Workers' Party, which is very for the public sector, should clean up their own homes before they leave the issue to an opposition party. The left is a party that wants more for those who need it the most. That's why we've re-prioritized. The mica said, if I remember correctly, in its post instead, we get to everything. I was surprised that he said that, and I would wonder if the representative of Storberget is satisfied with what we see in poverty, that there have become more poor under the red-green government, the rush, which often leads to poverty, that there are several waiting lists, and so it is with value creation, self-employed and better social rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1049	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1052	Last year, growth in Europe was expected to rise slightly, albeit slightly. Now you're assuming that the growth is going to be negative, 0.6 pst. This means that the situation in the European economy is serious. It'll take even longer before the growth takes up again, as we've hoped in the past. This is also bad news for Norway. Nor does Norway have a free ticket to high growth and low unemployment. Nevertheless, we stand out from the countries around us. We still have good growth in the economy, and the unemployment rate is low. In other words, there is a good situation in the Norwegian economy. But we've never hidden the challenges we're facing, for example. linked to a high level of costs. That's why we're working closely with the parties. That's why we put down the Holden committee, which is going to look at the relationship between the front and the payroll total. In other words, the parties and the authorities and their cooperation are an important tool for addressing the challenges of the Norwegian economy. We have a high level of preparedness. We closely follow developments. The government’s draft revised budget for 2013 contributes to ensuring the development of the Norwegian economy, and the 2014 budget will be marked by the situation in Europe and the impact on the Norwegian economy. So we have little opportunities to influence development out, but we can make our own economy more robust. The Norwegian model is our best defense. We build on this model, which has served us well for many years. We have a high level of income. Income is evenly distributed. We have good public welfare arrangements. At the same time, we have surpluses in the state budget and a considerable wealth at the hands of the state. The high level of income is because we get a lot left for every hour of work. We work effectively. We have been paid well for what we produce. The even distribution we have is related to keeping employment high and low unemployment. Few countries have fewer people in their working age out of employment than we have. We're supposed to be proud of that. Participation in the labour market gives individual security and financial autonomy. It contributes to social inclusion. Nothing means more to counteract poverty and differences than that people have jobs. A decent and inclusive working life is important for production and competitiveness. Strong social protection with equal access to important welfare services contributes to a smoother distribution of income. Equal access to education and health and a good social safety network facilitate productivity and adaptability. Tripartite cooperation, as I have already mentioned, invites the business community and social organisations to take joint responsibility for social development. This cooperation has contributed to low unemployment, to cohesion and to trust among people. Trust is an essential part of our social capital and is important to society. Trust makes society better to live in for all of us. Trust – that we trust each other – means a lot for the results we achieve. So it's that our situation doesn't come of itself. We're affected by what's happening around us, and in the countries we're dealing with. When the countries around us are struggling and the demand for Norwegian exports is falling, Norwegian companies are hit. A high level of costs in Norway makes the situation for business even more demanding. A responsible and credible economic policy is the foundation for good economic development. The last thing we need now is uncertainty about the governance of the economy. In times of distress, we must stand firm. We have previously seen how wrong it is when the management fails. It is more important than ever to know what kind of common economic policy the opposition will lead. People deserve it, and they need to know before 9 September. Policy is also about choosing. We choose the proper use of the oil money. We choose well-being over tax havens. We choose to bet on work, on knowledge, on welfare. We choose the basis for the whole thing: keeping the economy in order. And we choose to bet on our ability to cooperate and the willingness to meet challenges together.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1080	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1083	I am pleased that the Minister of Finance addresses some of the concerns that the Progress Party also raised in its contribution. It shows that we agree on the reality as it is. I note that the Minister of Finance is still unable to launch actions in the revised budget that would actually do something about it, unlike the opposition, which has a number of measures. I want to go back to the question of oil taxes, which the government will increase, as they say is an instrument to avoid bi-dividing the Norwegian economy. But when we had the round in Stortinget on Monday, the Minister of Finance couldn't say if the oil tax would actually lead to you having fewer oil projects. It did not respond to the Minister of Finance, either when he had the word for the first time, or in his small closing post, where he would only state that he was not ‘fig.’ I now give the Minister of Finance the opportunity to answer: will the oil tax mean that there will be fewer projects? Or is it just a way to increase the state's income? Yes or no.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1090	First, I have to make a little reservation for the fact that we have the same reality. At least we don't have the same reality of how much oil money Norwegian economy can bear. There is a great distance between the Workers' Party and the Advance Party, and there is also a great distance between the Advance Party and the potential government partner as they see it, namely the Right. In the case of the oil tax, I have given an answer to that question. This shall contribute to strengthening the cost awareness of Norwegian pedestal. This means that over time you will have a better cost development not just on the pedestal. It will also contribute to the Norwegian economy, helping to reduce the pressure in the Norwegian economy. That's the main point of the change that's now happening in the oil tax. Then I realize that the representative Solvik-Olsen doesn't like that answer, but that's actually the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1097	But that's not an answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1102	Of course, the Minister of Finance is right in saying that the crisis affecting parts of Europe also has consequences for our export businesses. However, it is soon time that the Workers' Party also recognises that the red-green policy reinforces the negative consequences of the falling demand from Europe. This also underlined Chief Economist Steinar Juel in Today's Business February 28th, where he said: «Stoltenberg should be far more concerned about the problems we have caused ourselves». The warning lights we are now seeing are not just coming from Europe. They are also a consequence of the policy pursued. When warning is as strong as the Prime Minister has been in recent days, it is a paradox that the measures announced will come in 2014 and not now in the revised national budget. Why does the government in the research cut in pieces when it could contribute to the impact of the growth package already now?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1114	Firstly, it is important to look at the results of the Norwegian economy. We have a growth that most other countries around us will envy us. We have an unemployment rate that is the lowest in Europe. There are 340,000 new jobs created since 2005. But we have never hidden that there are challenges in the Norwegian economy. The main challenge in the Norwegian economy is related to the level of costs. Therefore, it is so important to make sure that the cooperation of the parties works. Therefore, it is so important that we are aware of what this cooperation is primarily about. It rests on a decent working life. It is based on the absence of social dumping. It is based on collective agreements. And it rests on a strong work environment law. So together with the parties, we're going to be able to deal with that question. There is no doubt that, at the bottom of the whole, there is a responsible economic policy, and we are still waiting for the answer from the Right in relation to the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1123	The LO has asked the government to have a crisis package in return because they see significant danger signals for the Norwegian economy. The Minister of Finance's answer was: We have a reasonable use of oil money. That was the big and the whole answer. Some of us get the feeling that there might be more to a crisis package like that. August 15th or around September 1st. Is there any government now considering? That's the first question. The second question is, when the head of the Finance Committee says that the Workers' Party has a pragmatic relationship with taxation, is the pragmatic relationship with taxation both tax levels and tax rates?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1133	We have always said that we are following closely what is happening in Europe, what is happening in the Norwegian economy, and what is happening around us. We have said that for a long time, and it is important that there is also an economic policy at the bottom that provides confidence, and where there is no doubt about the framework conditions that are around the governance of the Norwegian economy. So we're ready. But I want to say to the representative of the Syversen that the revised budget, which is now here, and which is adopted in the Stortinget later today, is one answer, but the government is also working with the budget for 2014, and I guess I won't reveal a big secret when I say that the budget for 2014 will also bear the mark of the situation that is around us, and the situation in the Norwegian economy. The budget for 2014 will be presented by the undersigned on 14 October for the Stortinget, and hopefully there will be some new good answers to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1140	Norway is doing well, and we have a great deal of freedom of action, but nevertheless there are challenges in some areas, which I pointed out in my post: lack of teachers, more poor children, little left for money in terms of rail and little innovation in Norwegian business. Is the Council of State very satisfied with these areas, or does he realize that there could have been a little more targeted action in these particular areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1147	In fact, I think that I share the view that the representative Tenden has, that it is important – even if you have good money – that you get the most out of the money you put in. I think it's something that all parties should have far ahead in consciousness. And if that's allowed – that's of course, if it's in parliamentary language – I would say that what's often in politics, and I've been in this room for a while, is to say, I'm offering more than you. You have a very strong focus on the size of the appropriations. I am a strong supporter of having the search light at least as much on how the appropriations work. What do you get from the heads you insert in different areas? Yes, we will continue to work with efficiency in the public sector. Yes, we will continue to work to get the best possible way, care and services for the crowns we insert. It's actually the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1156	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1159	This is the last major debate in this period, and that is the last possibility that the Storing has to discuss our alternative policy solutions. And we can establish that the government has delivered good results after eight years of responsibility. There are 340,000 new jobs created, unemployment is low, employment is highly compared to the rest of Europe, and welfare is concentrated over tax cuts. We have a starting point for the next few years that most other countries would wish they had, but we have no guarantee that it will continue like this. Almost ten years ago, I was the county rapporteur in Finnmark, when about the entire fishing industry went over. Many hundreds of jobs disappeared, and many communities had to struggle with high levels of unemployment for many years. That is why I am very concerned when we now see danger signals such as increasing unemployment, lower investment in industry and falling exports to Europe. Forestry is one of the industries facing challenges, and it also has the fishing industry. Municipalities like Vadsø and Båtsfjord now have a vacancy of 7.8 pst. Today, we are going to adopt a revised budget adapted to the situation we are in. The growth package and the forest package are targeted measures. And over the last few weeks, we've here at the Stortinget adopted future policies for education and research, and we've adopted a historical commitment to transportation. These are heavy and forward-looking investments, which will strengthen Norwegian society and not least the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. This shall be done within the framework of the rules of action. On 9 September Norway will be the leader. The ambition of the working party is to mobilise a new red-green majority. The Red-Green parties have a clear, common economic policy based on the rule of action. Choices involve the choice of alternatives. So the question is: what is the alternative to today's government, in a country where things are going well, but where the situation can turn very quickly due to the crisis in Europe? There are 79 days left for the election, and we can establish that the alternative to today's government is a government made up of the Right Party and the Advance Party, because of the power ratio between the parties and the more sunny attitude of the Advance Party that they will not support a government in which they do not sit. So the question is, what would the Right Party and the Advance Party use the government power for if they were to win the election? In some areas, we have received very clear answers: they are united on massive tax cuts, more market thinking and the weakening of workers' rights. However, in a number of other key areas, the two parties have still not clarified common policies after eight years of opposition. I believe that Norwegian voters have a legitimate right to know what they get if they give their vote to the Right or the Advance Party – especially in view of what is related to the economic situation. What kind of economic policy will the two parties pursue? Will the rule of action continue to be firm, or will it be replaced by the rule of memory of the Progress Party? It is a pity that the review of the revision and the debate today — the last chance you have here in Stortinget — has so far not clarified these very fundamental issues. Norway needs safe economic governance and work for all – not economic uncertainty. The Progress Party, with its experimental view of economic policy, will bring uncertainty into financial policy, primarily for Norwegian workers. In uncertain times, there is no room for experimentation. We are faced with a historic choice of direction. For the first time, the Right will cooperate with the Advance Party of the Government. For the first time, the election will be between a government headed by the Workers' Party and a Right-wing Party government. Norway is one of the world's best countries to live in. We have a society with little differences and great opportunities. We're doing the biggest problems in common. This is how the Workers' Party will continue to build on the Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1189	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1192	I think it's a little eye-catching when a representative calls it wanting to invest more in the Norwegian economy, streamlining the public sector and stimulating people to work for experimental policies. I think that should actually be common sense. However, the point is the false security provided by the Workers' Party. The representative said the three-processing package was targeted. It's a 750-million package. SEK, of which 500 million. kr is granted outside the rule of action. It goes to a company, Investinor, who already has $2.6 billion. kr, which they are unable to use. That's 70 pst. of the total capital of the company. The question is, what does the government think they're going to achieve by giving 500 million? SEK to a company with 2600 million. kr unused? This is really just about blowing up a package that looks good, without really going into the economy, and without any effect. What can Investinor do with 500 million? kr, which they cannot do with the 2.6 billion. kr they have?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1203	Also in 2008, when the financial crisis first hit, we heard from the opposition parties that the government's actions were too small and too late. It has subsequently been shown that there were just appropriate measures dosed for the situation. This is also how we are going to meet the economic situation when we see that Norway can be remedied by the international economic crisis. What is at least the bottom plan of the red-green government is the view of the rule of action and that it should be firm. In the last few days, we've heard that the Progress Party is going to dump the rule of action, they're going to give tax cuts of 100 billion. kr, and they overwhelm all the other parties on the Stortinget in every matter. This is a policy that is not related, although the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen expounds it in a slightly more technical way than other representatives of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1210	If the representative doesn't know the answer, she can either.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1215	I think there's something a little sad about a situation where the Labour Party's parliamentary leader, after the party has been in government for eight years, has to use almost all his intervention in drawing scares of others. I don't think such scare pictures are enough that the representative Helga Pedersen himself believes in. At least the selectors have seen through the red-green rhetoric. And if there's one thing that's certain, it's that scare pictures usually go back on the one that's issuing them. I registered one thing in the representative's posts in addition to this, and it is that Helga Pedersen has now begun to worry about the situation in the Norwegian economy. I would then like to ask a specific question, which I have asked both to Mr Micasen's representative and to the Minister for Finance. None of them answered that, but maybe Helga Pedersen can. It is: Why is the Workers' Party in the revised national budget for research more than 100 million? When you think that research is an important tool for creating growth in the economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1222	The Labour Party and I have explained and told what we want to do with the Norwegian community day after day, and the case-by-case approach has been put forward to support it. This is about economic policy. This week we have dealt with the national transport plan, with great ambitions for Norway in the next few years. The municipal economy for next year has been adopted. The same is the agricultural policy, etc. As far as research is concerned, this government has increased research appropriations by 32 pst. compared to the government of the Right was part of almost eight years ago. With regard to the economy, we can state that Norway is doing well, but we have to be aware of the danger signals, and it has also underlined the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister time and time again. When I challenge the Right Party and the Advance Party on what will be the sum of their economic policies, it is not to scare anyone, but because there is a question that Norwegian voters are entitled to clarify before 9 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1234	The representative, Helga Pedersen, does not say surprisingly that the government has delivered. Then I want to bring forward a sector that the Labour Party and the Christian People's Party have been united about, that is, the non-profit sector. What are the results after eight years of red-green rule? Well, dozens of institutions have been laid down – not in the period, but so to speak, every year. We experience the paradox that while thousands are waiting in line for a provision of care for drug users, in the non-profit sector, they lay down a place of care for drug users. The last thing we've seen is that the work of the Salvation Army is in jeopardy. So my question is: does the representative Helga Pedersen mean that the red-green government has provided good for the non-profit sector? And is that the direction where tens of institutions have been laid down every year is the right direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1241	The Labour Party fully agrees with the Christian People's Party that the non-profit sector has a very important role to play in providing welfare services to the Norwegian population. That is why the ideal organisations and the non-profit sector have a very important role today in what we call welfare production, and that is how we want it to be in the years to come. That is why there is reason to warn against the commercialisation and market thinking of health and care represented by the Right and the Advance Party, and also to strongly warn against the tax cuts represented by the two parties, because it would weaken our ability to finance well-being, whether by the public or by organisations such as the Red Cross, Norwegian People's Aid and others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1246	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1249	Norway is an open economy, and an export-oriented sector depends on the economic development of our trading partners. Norwegian competitiveness compared to the competitiveness of a narrowing Europe is getting worse. And now there are dark clouds on the horizon. We see here at home a development that goes in the wrong direction. Sometimes you get the impression, when you listen to the political change of words, that the only thing between Norway and Greece is the red-green government. The truth is, rather, that this is a government that has, over the last eight years, pushed huge bills in front of it – bills that, through that shift, are becoming more expensive, more and more demanding to pay the longer time that goes on – and it is a government that has prioritised errors. There are over 600 000 people in pre-age employment on the outside of the labour market. Many thousands of disabled people want jobs. The government has cut off the resources that can help them get into work. Very few understand why the government has prioritised this way. We've seen a bureaucracy growing on a scale, and crazy use of resources. The police analysis that came a few days ago was crushing and clearly shows the wrong use of resources, which is about more bureaucracy and less police force. This is a wild policy by the Red-Green politicians. Another example is Norwegian hospital doctors, who use over 50 pst. of its time not to treat patients. I think it's frustrating for doctors with long-term education, who want to treat patients, want to operate patients, that they've got a working day that's about a lot more than just doing that. We are also in a situation where there are now signs of increasing unemployment. The Minister of Finance said that Norway’s biggest challenge was the level of costs. I am very much in agreement with that. But the question is, what has the government done to curb such a trend — a trend that has gone all the way in the wrong direction and has not helped to reduce the difference in costs and costs between Norway and other countries? It is then important that a responsible economic policy be pursued – an economic policy that prioritises the most important things first, where investments are made in future value creation, red tapes, efficiencies and changes the economy, and provides for a more targeted use of public expenditure over time. It's good to invest in infrastructure. It is smart to invest in a competitive tax regime. It's smart to invest in R & D and ICT. Yeah, it makes sense to invest in such a way that you run society better. Therefore, it is also reasonable to distinguish between operation and investment. When you hear red-green politicians talk, they say essentially: the answer is the rule of action, what is the question? What if you started to ask yourself some questions about how to use the money, whether it would make sense to promote a stronger distinction between consumption and investment, or whether that is how the money works differently in the economy as they are granted over or below the line? The truth is that an incredible number of techniques have been developed to placate around an action rule that is the answer to wealth and safe and responsible economic governance in Norway. That's not the situation. On the contrary, a responsible economic policy is about having an anchor fast that looks at the balance between the growth of public expenditure and our ability to create values. There's going to be a new government to do. Although this is a revised national budget, the Progress Party has found room for prioritising some areas of activity. One of them is health. Many municipalities report challenges in meeting all the requirements of the Cooperation Reform. That's why the Progress Party has granted almost 0.5 billion. kr extra, just to gauge the trends we see in psychiatry, alcohol, health and care for the elderly. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to wish Stortinget a really good summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1275	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1278	I noticed that the representative Jensen used the term ‘responsible economic policy’ in his statement. In today's Business yesterday we could read that the Advance Party is ready to take up the Ministry of Finance. At the same time, Siv Jensen will dump the rule of action, and she stressed that public expenditure should be reduced. We have recorded in this room that the Progress Party always has a few billion more than the other parties. Today – in the context of the revision – they have 3 billion. NOK more, on Tuesday, when we dealt with the transport plan, they had 455 billion. kr more than the government. In addition, 100 billion shall be granted. kr in tax cuts. It shall even be cut in the public sector, without cancelling civil servants. This is not a responsible economic policy, this is not an anchor for the Norwegian economy. This is a policy that cannot really be implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1289	I'm not sure if I saw any question here. But that's probably closer to what I tried to say in my post, that every time a red-green politician opens his mouth, the answer is the rule of action, while you wonder what the question is. So it is not that a responsible economic policy goes through the rule of action. It's rather the opposite that you have to start looking at how we spend the money on behalf of the taxpayers. It may be that private, ideal, individual family, can manage their money better than Helga Pedersen can on their behalf. Because each of us might want to make other and wiser choices if we keep more of our own income to manage ourselves, rather than having red-green politicians who do it for us. Then you have to choose what to criticize the Progress Party for. On the one hand, we are criticized for always having more money than the others. But when we cut – as we do – we are accused that the cuts are irresponsible. The truth is that the answer lies somewhere in the middle: a responsible economic policy that cuts where it is right to cut, and that invests where it makes sense to invest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1298	Let me first return the wish for a good summer. But I would like to send the representative Jensen a challenge on the way: we have recently seen some interesting illustrations of what kind of role Norway will have in the world if the Progress Party gets a hand on the wheel. While Per Sandberg will build a new European wall on the Greek border, the Progress Party actively calls for Norway to contribute to peace settlements in the war from which many of those who come to Greece flee. On the World Environment Day, the Progress Party Group decided to oppose Norway’s participation in the Kyoto 2 agreement, following a long-standing internal seminar on whether or not man-made climate change exists. Will the Progress Party in government – if it goes so wrong that they get there in the autumn – undertake to work for a new international climate agreement in the next four-year period?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1309	There were a lot of claims here. The Progress Party is committed to pursuing a foreign policy that also ensures Norwegian interests in the world of which we are part. Then we need to have a look at how we can improve already existing agreements that Norway is part of. It concerns Schengen, and it concerns, for example: to look at the external protection of Frontex cooperation. Of course, it is also important to ask some critical questions about already existing international agreements, which were perhaps negotiated at a time when the world challenges were different than they are today. Then the Progress Party has been quite clear with regard to Kyoto 2. An international agreement cannot be called when so few countries have chosen to join it. But what we have been very clear about is that we want to be involved in negotiating an agreement that is international, to which several of the large emitters will join, and which has a targeted plan, with instruments that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1316	I want to go back to the revised national budget. The appropriations made available through the county councils for regional development and innovation are an important part of the government's regional policy commitment. We see there that the Progress Party and the Right have a common proposal to cut 0.5 billion. kr – one third of the total allocation for 2013. The reason for the cut is that the parties want to remove the county municipality in the long term. They also refer to their priorities of commitment to transport and the improvement of business framework conditions. Innovation Norway is the performer, who uses the money on behalf of the government to create development, and the evaluation shows that it produces good results in creating new jobs. Many new jobs have been created in recent years. The first question for the Progress Party is: Can the representative Jensen explain in more detail how the party's actions in the revised 2013 national budget will benefit districts in the field of transport and nutrition? The second question is: Does the Party believe that it needs its own regional and regional policy instruments through the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1325	I understand that this is a sore point for the Center Party, because in the last eight years there has been a completely different development than the Central Party. There has been a rather strong deportation from large parts of the districts and more concentration in and around the big cities. When I'm out talking to the business community located around the districts, there are especially three things they're asking for. They are asking for offensive investment in infrastructure – and not just on the road – for more goods on the keel, and they are asking for coherence in the infrastructure, because it will reduce transport distances and increase competitiveness. The second thing they ask for is the elimination of unnecessary high taxes and taxes, which are obstacles and disadvantages for reinvesting, and the increase in the number of jobs. Then mentioned is the inheritance tax, then mentioned are the depreciation rates, and then mentioned is the property tax. The third point they address is that we need to eliminate distortions of competition, for Norway, in comparison with competing countries, has special rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1339	The chord shift has been completed. This is this president's last watch before he hands over the club to the next president. Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I would like to thank the College for having been elected to trust. I hope I have delivered – I have done this to the best of my ability. Then I wish you good summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1346	I would like to thank the President for the good management of Stortinget's treatments during this four-year period, for pleasant meetings and for good cooperation during this period. I want to see this period a little bit in a four-year perspective. It started with the aftermath of a crisis that we were uncertain about how long would be and how quickly we might get out of it. That crisis remains entirely present in European countries. We have been, and are still, in a unique economic position in Europe for a long time. Severe cuts and unemployment have marked many of the countries further south of Europe. We've had growth and progress, but we've had it in a time epoch that's special to Norway. We've had a high oil price, we've had a high oil activity throughout this period. What should have been our project in many ways was to ensure the balance of the generation accounts for the future by ensuring that in this generation of politicians we gave an inheritance to future politicians and citizens in this country – a more robust and less oil-dependent economy. We haven't made that clear in this four-year period. We've managed well through the crisis, but we haven't made it through the long-term perspective. Therefore, Norway is particularly vulnerable if the crisis continues. Many arrows point the wrong way today. It's not sure this is going to be fulfilled: but right where we are today, we see increasing unemployment, a clearly falling employment rate, we see that the number of young people with disabilities is rising and the proportion of people with disabilities in the labour market is falling. That leads to the question: have we used well in the last four years to prepare for possible future declines? So the answer is, we're more oil-dependent. Over the course of these four years, we have established an economy that is becoming increasingly clear and heavier on one leg, and that is the oil price. Growth in gross domestic product in Norway in recent years has mainly reflected oil price developments. So I'm a little concerned that we're taking care of -- that we're not going to be so retiring because we're in such a special situation with the country's economy, that we're not going to look at what else is the foundation wall. Then I notice that in this debate it sounds as if the core wall of the Norwegian economy is the rule of action. I am a hot follower of the rule of action. I think that's reason put in system. If we're going to spend more oil money, we need a frame for how much oil money we have. But that is not what is most important in economic policy. What is most important in economic policy is that we provide for high productivity, that we provide for investment, that we ensure that new ideas grow and face capital that will contribute to investment, and that new ideas become jobs that are safe for the future of our society. This is what is at the core of economic policy – a stable framework that makes this possible, but also that incentives for growth from below actually happen. But unfortunately, the signs aren't so clear on it. We have some heavy industries that carry a lot of innovation and innovation, but in other areas we see that good ideas do not meet capital markets that are willing to invest in them. The Labour Party has used many debates to boast of the World Bank’s ‘Doing Business’ survey. After all, there is a good survey of regulatory frameworks mainly around business activities in different countries. But it has an interesting point. One of the points on which we are involved in this year's survey is the availability of capital. So that's where we have space number. 70. It should really be a bigger topic for us to discuss. If there's something I meet when I'm traveling around now, it's that all those with new ideas experience that the access to capital and the ability to get funded new projects become smaller and smaller. They also feel, of course, that we have a tax system that is negative for private Norwegian owners and thus contributes to even less access to capital for new ideas that want to grow. We have many large and important potential growth industries. In these four years, the right has had a strong focus on actions to contribute to innovation, innovation and productivity. We have invested heavily in research and development in our budgets, and we have invested heavily in nutrient-oriented research and development, because we believe that this is the way to raise the Norwegian economy on a lasting basis. It should not be the case that the good ideas of our universities become primarily jobs in other countries. In fact, we have to make them become future jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1372	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1375	In 2005, Erna Solberg refused to cooperate with the Progress Party and justified it in ten points, including that the Progress Party is failing in stability and governance, that the party is constantly changing the line of important issues, the release of oil money, low liability, winging, endangering jobs, and that the Progress Party is jumping around in the political landscape. The interview that Siv Jensen did with Today's Business yesterday shows, in itself, the debate here today, that the Progress Party has changed little since 2005. What is new in today's situation is that the Right will cooperate with the Advance Party. I also record that Solberg's contribution today reduces the importance of oil money spending in economic policy. I find it quite alarming, and also the fact that the Right will not today, on the last day of the Grand Duchy, clarify common economic policy with the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1384	I remember our first line change after the 2009 election. Then I got about the same line of action from Helga Pedersen. That's the line you've had for four years. It says a lot about the Labour Party's development of politics. There are no new ideas, there are no better solutions – there is a continuous focus on one thing, namely the disagreement between the Right and the Advance Party. So let me first clarify a history misunderstanding. I did not say what was mentioned about the Advance Party in 2005, I wrote it in a letter to Carl I. Hagen after he sent me a letter in March 2004, and I had said that I would not go to be part of a government alternative by sitting with the Advance Party in government. Do I believe that the Progress Party has changed? Yes, I actually said that already in 2006. I believe that the Progress Party is a party that is more predictable and easier to cooperate with today than it was at the time. I think that's because of today's leadership. It has provided a better basis for policy solutions. I know now more easily where the Advance Party comes and where our disagreement is than I did at the time. That's a good basis for finding solutions, even if we disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1395	Yesterday it was announced that the Education Directorate believes that a number of private schools have paid a total of 18 million. kr in illegal dividends to its owners. It is a well-known case that the Right when they were in the last government, opened up an extensive establishment of new private school places – and Erna Solberg has promised to do it again. Today's case shows that unfortunately there is a great will among some of these owners to circumvent the dividend ban that both Erna Solberg and the red-green majority are in favour of. How many more bureaucrats have Erna Solberg planned to employ to supervise and control the thousands of new private school places she will set up?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1402	I don't intend to establish any private schools. In that case, there must be people who have good ideas and want to contribute — but with the clear assumption that they cannot benefit from those schools in the years to come. That there's a discussion between the property company and those who run the school building about how much the rental price of a school building should be, is something we actually have multiple places. We have a discussion between municipalities about setting the framework conditions for private kindergartens, and we have a discussion about the public, for example. underprices their costs, so that private kindergartens are not treated in a non-discriminatory manner. I'm concerned that parents are going to be allowed to choose which school their children are going to, and I think a good society can need diversity in many areas that can challenge us. But my biggest school policy project is actually raising the school that most kids go to. It's to make sure that people don't choose a private school because they think it's so much better than their local public school, but because it might have some other alternatives. We need to be able to control and have a system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1413	Crisis in EU countries is becoming increasingly serious and will have major consequences for Norway. But Right Jan Tore Sanner said in his main post: not scare the EU. No, the Center Party doesn't have to scare. The facts are coming every day: Youth unemployment is greater than in the mid-war period, there are severe cuts that give increasing burdens to people most. This creates social and political unrest. It's very serious. Developments are like dynamite towards the whole Union. Then we read in the context of the Right Major elections for the next period: ‘As long as Norway is not a member, the Right will give priority to a more active European policy.’ My question is: What can we learn from the EU to make Norway safer for people?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1422	We can, for example: learn that we are completely dependent on Europe for the sale of many of our goods and services. Therefore, it is important that we influence the framework conditions that should apply to Norwegian business in the years to come. I believe that an active European policy means that, after all, when we are a member of the EEA, when we are going to provide for the framework conditions adopted, we are going to take care of the needs of Norwegian business and be early on in matters. Unfortunately, I have registered that central government departments in particular do not have the same need to be active custodians of the framework conditions imposed by EU legislation and legislation. You're more in the mode of vetoing most things. I think we have an opportunity to influence early in these processes. Then we have to have a very active policy. I know that it is possible to make changes in policy. I was the Council of State and had to work to change social legislation, i.e. equalisation rules, to ensure that the employer’s fee could be reduced in Norway. I traveled around and had active contact both with other countries and with the European Commission to get it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1433	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1436	What are the key values on which we are going to build the Norway of the future? They can be summed up in two words: environment and justice. These are the two main challenges of our time: solving climate problems and creating a society that provides good opportunities for everyone. No challenge is greater for our generation of people than climate change. No responsibility is greater for us who are selected in this room, and no tasks will be more important for those who are selected for the harvest. We see global warming increasing, and Norway needs to use its wealth, competence and ability to contribute to global solutions. Good society is a society with little differences. Small differences create trust between people. It creates cohesion and provides the basis for solidarity, while great differences are married to a society. Large differences break down the community. We want to build society on a strong community, because it is within a strong community that each human being is given the opportunity to live out his dreams, and that each human being is given the greatest possible freedom. Environment and justice are the main challenges for the future and have also been the two leading values for the eight-year effort put in the red-green government. What's the situation today, at the end of this pouring period? Economic differences in Norway have decreased, greenhouse gas emissions are now falling, school results are rising, and unemployment is low. These are results that the majority in this Chamber can be proud of, but that must inspire us to change more – to change Norway in a more reddish and greener direction. If we're going to bet on the environment and justice, we have to make sure that the big money is spent on the big problems. The budget we are discussing today, or the revision of the budget, which is the theme of this debate, shows that the majority is willing to invest in what is most important for the future. Not least, the major investment in knowledge: new knowledge building at the University of Southern Trøndelag, Campus Ås, the School of Art and Design in Bergen and the new master’s room in the Westland, the auditorium at the University Museum in Bergen, are part of the scheme presented by the majority. In addition, we are overfulfilling the obligations we have assumed in the case of student housing. I have with some wonder witnessed the tax debate that has taken place here today. The growth package presented by the government is anything but a confession that the right-hand side has been right when they've been talking about tax havens. On the contrary, it is an example of a tax policy that goes in a completely different direction; a tax exchange that shifts resources towards industries that need it, and that moves them away from parts of our economy where the pace is moving too fast – from speculation to production, from those who have the most, to those who have little, from industries that pollute, to industries that are more involved in building the future. These are the keywords of the tax policy SV wants more from the future. However, tax exchange must take place within a level of tax that can finance the welfare of the future, for the recognition we are building on is that it is not just that we create to share – we also need to share to create, because the Norwegian welfare model and the strong community are profitable and provide the basis for a good and flexible business. This debate shows that Norway is facing a choice of roads. That choice is about distribution – whether differences should increase or continue to decrease. It's about what kind of welfare model we're going to have – whether we're going to build stronger communities or drop commercial forces within school, health, and other important sectors of our society. It's about the big money going to solve the big problems – care for the elderly, school, kindergarten, road and rail, or tax havens for those who have the most of them. And it's about whether Norway will be a country that takes climate responsibility for the next four years, or a country that escapes climate denial into government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1461	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1464	Listening to the representative Lysbakken is like listening to a preacher. There are many slogans and many views and visions about the future. This accumulation session ends in the same way as it began eight years ago, with SV in the lawn outside the Stortinget. Eight years ago, there was a protest against participation in Afghanistan, and for a few days, the asylum policy was opposed. And who knows, there may be protests against child poverty or school food or -- I don't know what to protest against in the future. Where does the representative Lysbakken feel best at home, in the lawn, together with other SVs, or in the government offices and here in the staging room?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1473	For eight years SV has done an exercise that the Progress Party has never tried, namely to take responsibility for this country and be part of a majority that has not only talked about politics but has practiced policies for the best of our voters. It's given us a lot of results. It's given a society where the differences go down, where we're in the process of taking a heavier responsibility for the climate – in contravention of that direction, the Progress Party wants to use power to move Norway. That's what the contradictions are about. Then you should listen carefully when the Progress Party is talking about disagreement within a block. It's absolutely true that there are distances on the red-green side. But the distances between the Advance Party and the other bourgeois parties are at a level that cannot be compared to what is in our possession. I think it's an honest thing. It's an honest thing that the bourgeois parties disagree so much that there's a 10-minute look-up on the Dayrevy just because they can agree on one line of tricks between Oslo west and Bærum. But it's a little strange, in that perspective, to come and attack others for disunity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1482	One year ago, the red-greens agreed that hospitals should give priority to care and mental health protection. After that, we have seen the Right Warning against the increase in red-green cows, including those who need detoxification and drug treatment. There are between 3,000 and 4,000 addicts – depending on how you rain – who are in line. These are people who are motivated, they're almost as low as you can get, they're worried about the future, they're scared, they have family they're supposed to be, and their families are worried about them. However, the SV model is that health companies should not give priority to care. We know that there is free capacity in voluntary and private offers, but they are not used. Is SV, after eight years of red-green government, proud that the queues of those who need the state most, have actually become bigger?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1491	The representative gives an incorrect picture. It is true that, in the past, one had a measure of the percentage distribution of growth between the different parts of the health care system, but it is not true that the percentage growth has broken down in a worse way for care after this change. That's the result of the actual use of money that counts. We believe that in the years to come, there will be a need for a new escalation plan in the field of care, because we have major challenges. But the right has the wrong answer. Right wants to introduce a new way of prioritizing health care, which will lead to those with the most ‘wage’ diagnosis, not those with the greatest needs, which come first in line. It won't serve the spaces. It will serve those who can be treated quickly in a commercial clinic. It's not the ones that have the greatest needs in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1498	The representative Lightbakken, SV's party leader, is lifting up the environment as one of the big issues. When the government presented the big news about the petroleum business in our company, many of us were surprised at how close the ice edge SV was willing to drop the oil business in the Barents Sea. When the matter was discussed in Stortinget last Wednesday, the oil and energy minister showed that it was not just about the ice edge, but that as long as it was about underwater installations, one could even operate under the ice. This came clearly from the Minister of Oil and Energy. Now I'm not going to reflect on the relationship between oil activities in and below the ice edges in relation to the location of individual lots at or below the barrier limit, but the question of SV has to be: Is SV proud of how to manage the vulnerable natural areas at the edge of the Barents Sea and the environmental risk there?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1505	SV is very proud that we have kept the oil industry away from the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja, that we have protected the Mora banks, and that there is no agreement on oil operations at Jan Mayen during this period. The disagreement about oil and many of the environmental issues goes across the blocks of Norwegian policy. There is no secret that there has been disagreement in oil matters on the red-green side, just as it is well known that it is also civil. Based on the muscles the voters equipped with SV in the 2009 elections, I believe that our party has done a very good job for the environmental interests and has been in – to a greater extent than in previous periods of ageing in Norway – putting brakes on the oil industry. The challenge that all environmental parties should now face is not to attack each other, but to put the environment higher on the agenda, challenge the other batches, challenge the media, and challenge the voters to take an environmental choice on 9 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1512	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1515	Developments in Europe and the two-wayness of the Norwegian economy form the backbone of the revised national budget. There is a great deal of concern about, in particular, the export-oriented part of the mainland economy. Failures in European markets coincide with the fact that over time the petroleum-related industries have driven up the temperature of the economy here at home. The situation calls for our attention and a significant need for policy action. In this way, the value chain for forests is completely unique. Here everything is at the heart of making use of raw materials, technology and knowledge in a way that offers great opportunities. Everything currently produced from oil — from clothing to fuel — can be made from renewable forest raw materials, but it will require a fundamental transformation of the wood processing industry if these possibilities are to be realised. The centre party believes there is a need for a strong public commitment to meet this transition, precisely because the forest industry has a unique advantage in climate change. Measures must be designed to reduce costs, increase access to capital and facilitate increased logging of timber. That is why we warmly welcome the measures proposed by the government in the context of the revised national budget. 750 million. kr is not enough to turn the wood processing industry into the future industry that it has the potential to become, but it is a step on the way and signals a significant political will to contribute to conversion. We follow the forest industry closely and are ready to take more measures to secure the Norwegian timber processing industry. I record that the Labour Party, the Right and the Centre have adopted offensive opinions at their respective national meetings on the need to resolve the crisis. It is of national importance that we continue to process the timber in Norway, thus exploiting both the climate potential of the forest and the value creation that gives jobs and growth. The two-way distribution of the Norwegian economy requires action both against individual industries, such as the woodworking industry, and on a general basis. That is why the government has presented the growth package. It shall increase profitability and strengthen investment in mainland enterprises, thereby ensuring continued value creation in the competitive sector for a demanding period and in the years ahead. I am pleased that improvements in food taxes totaling 3.5 billion are proposed. kr by reducing the tax rate for companies from 28 pst. until 27 pst. and that a start write of 10 pst is introduced. for balancing category d operating equipment, machinery, etc. The depreciation will be at this 30 pst. the first year. The tax FUNN scheme is also improved to trigger more innovation in business and to strengthen research environments. In the case of the Centre Party, it is essential to stress that the tax on the entrepreneurial income of the self-employed is to be reduced as in the case of companies. The activity of the self-employed also represents significant employment and is important for the creation of value added. I notice that the opposition characterises the growth package as ‘too little, too late’. After eight years we have almost learned that this means that they really believe that the government hits the flash. The tax relief is financed by what I want to characterise as very important tax reinforcements in line with the Central Party's policy of more active use of taxation to promote desired development. Reduced access to interest rebates in group conditions limits undesirable adjustments and increases tax revenue. A slight reduction in the favour of industrial property and secondary housing in the taxes on wealth can help channel capital into new industrial activities and also mitigate the price developments in the housing market. I also believe that it is right to stimulate higher cost awareness – as I have mentioned several times – in the petroleum sector through the rate adjustment in the petroleum tax system, which puts some of the risk of possible exceedances on companies. The Government’s proposal for a revised national budget underlines the importance of having a political willingness to take action when the needs are present.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1532	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1536	I'm going to try the same question at the Center Party that I tried at the Workers' Party, because I think the Centre Party – unlike the Workers' Party – actually has a heart for the woodworking industry. The government boasts of a three-speed package that the Progress Party fully agrees that should be in place, or that should be in place, but we disagree with the device. The government boasts that the package is 750 million. kr. The Progress Party wants to spend all the money on depreciation rules, tax improvements and infrastructure investments that benefit the industry. The government, on the other hand, chooses to use two thirds of the package as capital into a state-owned company that already has two and a half billion. kr that it does not use. Why is it reasonable to introduce a three-stage package primarily to a company that is already running out of money, instead of doing what the Progress Party proposes: actually improving the framework conditions for all operators in the industry – far better than the government has proposed with its small, remaining resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1545	The representative of Solvik-Olsen knows that the government has already committed 100 million in the revised national budget last year. to action by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to improve the situation. This year – in addition to 500 million. SEK to Investinor – 250 million. to measures taken by the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Industry and Trade respectively. The measures taken by the Ministry of Transport are to reduce bottlenecks and improve accessibility, etc., while the measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food are to improve forest accessibility – a lot of good measures. We're busy with the conversion. The investment funds shall be used to drive new developments in the woodworking industry. That's what's needed. We cannot decide that the market for paper and for Norwegian Forest should improve. That's the starting point. I am very pleased that we can also use funds for this in the framework of Investinor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1552	In yesterday's debate on the municipal proposition, the Centre Party sent up all its people to tell about the value of the small municipalities, and we agree that it has great value – at least the inhabitants who live there. We may not agree on the size of the municipality, but it's a different discussion. But what I haven't heard of, and I would like to challenge Breck, is this so-called counting time for new residents to be registered and to be exposed to the income system. This time is now a year and a half after new residents have actually moved to the municipality. This means that growth municipalities lose tens of millions of dollars and cannot offer good services to their inhabitants. Before – i.e. under Bondevik II – the time of the census was 1 January. Sandne's municipality is losing 100 million. kr. in the year and is therefore struggling to provide good services to its inhabitants, because the ministry has changed this. Will the Central Party help people throughout the country to benefit from transfers from the state through the income system?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1561	We didn't send up all the cannons to defend the small municipalities. We sent up all the cannons to defend democracy by saying that instead of coercion, for which the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left, we want people in the municipalities to decide for themselves their future – not that the elite here in the Stortinget should decide where the municipal boundaries should be. The question we can put back to the Right is: why don't you draw the municipal boundaries? Why don't you clarify how you want this picture to be? With regard to the municipal economy and the framework of the municipalities that have grown, many small municipalities also face the same challenges as the municipality that the representative of Greece mentioned here. I just want to point out that the existing income system takes care of both small and large municipalities. We are opposed to the redistribution system in the Right, which will mean that more than 300 municipalities are losing on the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1568	The centre party has had its closing press conference – but a little before we've finished, but still. There was a big point that we went into a destiny choice, that there were experiments that had to be rejected, etc. And then the Center Party spent an incredible amount of time telling me that a voice to the Christian People's Party was really a voice to the Advance Party, as far as I knew. So my question to Breck must be, is it based on the experience of the Center Party with a collaboration, that you have that logic? So is it that a voice to the Central Party is actually a voice to SV?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1575	The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have many common challenges, many common views and many common ideological points of view. Let's say first of all. That is why, of course, we are extremely concerned about what will happen if, in the face of suspicion, there is a cooperation between the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left; if one then has the opportunity to move forward in the direction that is the common starting point for these two parties – in the non-profit sector, in the district policy, etc. That is the challenge that the Christian People's Party must face, and that is the challenge that the Christian People's Party must answer: How should the Christian People's Party influence in a situation where it appears that the Advance Party and the Right are becoming dominant? To what extent do they have the opportunity to bring politics in the direction desired by the Christian People's Party and the Central Party? In what direction does one want agricultural policy to go? We fear this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1582	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1585	The representative Breck seemed concerned in his reply in his closing line. In fact, it's now up to the voters to change what they want, and they have the possibility to say that they want a center-right shift. I was born in the 1970s. In fact, the Norwegian economy has had a strong period since the 1970s – without a connection between these two things. No, I think it's more of the business structure that we have, that we've got women into the labour market, and a favourable population attitude with many employees per pensioner. Many of us are more concerned about the prospects we now see. In particular, there are three factors that are crucial to ensuring a sustainable welfare state in the long term: we need to work more, we need to increase employment, and we need to work better, we need to increase productivity, and thirdly we need a good family policy – mainly because the family has an important value in itself, but also in order to ensure an increase in birth rates and more workers per pensioner in the future. An important premise for a viable economy is thus family policy. It costs both society and individuals dearly when government fire extinguishes, but forgets the preventive family work. We can't as a society settle for that 5 pst. of our children need help from mental health protection. Nor can we rest assured that there has been an increase of 77 pst. in the number of children in child protection in the last 15 years. A good childhood lasts life out. It is much cheaper for society and better for children — and adults — to prevent family problems than to repair them. Then we must invest in family life, family protection, and a life course — an area where the government has unfortunately chosen to cut. That the government has neglected family policy is discouraging, but perhaps not very surprising. It is more surprising that the government has failed in its employment policy. The government is right enough that the number of jobs is record high, but LO and others point out that this has largely caused labour immigration from Sweden and Eastern Europe, and not that we have improved to include those who work at home. The proportion of the working population is lower than when the government took over, despite the fact that we have reached the peak of the petroleum age and have experienced strong demand for labour. The working path seems to be 3.7 pst. That means that 100,000 people are available. There have been several early retirements and many other disadvantages. Occupational participation among young people with reduced working capacity has gone from 44 pst. for less than 40 pst. from 2011 to 2012. The Christian People's Party shares the concerns of LO for the weak inclusion in the labour market and the rising unemployment rate. For this reason, the Christian People's Party proposes 1 000 new places of action for people with reduced working capacity. Another challenge is the doubling of the Norwegian economy. The petroleum-based part of the economy is going well, while other competitive enterprises are wearing down. The government has the right medicine, but the wrong timing. We need a better TaxFUNN scheme and better depreciation rules now – and not later. The Christian People's Party and the rest of the opposition are proposing this precisely in the budget we are discussing today. The Christian People's Party will not watch the problem grow; we will descend from the Tribune and into the path to solve it. That is why the Christian People's Party will have a new government and a new course for the country. We will return to family policy, increase the inclusion of groups that are currently out of work, and introduce a more entrepreneurial policy to ensure welfare in the future. This government, which now has its seat for eight years, has had an adventurous economic space. Nevertheless, we see that the results are more poor children. Yes, we see that there has been more money for transportation, but we also see that with another organization, greater innovation, we could have saved up to 30 pst. of the costs. We don't solve all the more money problems for all the areas. We want a new direction, a new direction, and that's why we need a shift on 9 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1611	The time is ripe to think about the needs of society for infrastructure investment. Investment in vital infrastructure cannot always be the loser. That's capital and not consumption. The country is not getting poorer by such investments, but is getting richer. Infrastructure shall be used to build the country and to increase its production income. The railway station and the State Road Service should be given greater freedom of action to perform their tasks, as is the case with Avinor for aviation and Entra for state building needs. This can be done by transforming these institutions into state undertakings or wholly owned public limited liability companies. No, these are not quotes from the party program of the Progress Party, but excerpts from a chronicle written by County Johnsen in 2008 – but that was before he got the power to let words follow action. But I'll leave it. Only every three kroner paid by drivers today in car-related taxes are going to strengthen the transport sector. Not even the old road tax goes to work. It has therefore changed its name to an annual fee. Like County President Johnsen, the Advance Party wishes to organise the transport operation through two state enterprises: the Riksvei SF and the Railway SF. These companies will be given equity and given the mandate to prioritise socio-economical projects. That means that the expansion of road and track will make it possible to transport goods and people from A to B faster. What about this little calculation connected to the E18 westwards, with an engineer living in Asker who works at Fornebu? Today, the engineer is in line for almost two hours every day, morning and afternoon. The price of an engineer can be estimated at 800 kroner an hour. If you multiply it by two, you get $1,600 a day. The time of five days is $8,000 a week. If the engineer works for 40 weeks, he has NOK 320,000 a year. If we say that there are 25 000 workers – not all engineers, of course – you can take 320,000 kroner times 25 000 working people, and then you get 8 billion. kr in cooling, or in lost productivity, each year only on one section, E18 westwards. In the same calculation, of course, thousands of hours can be added in reduced transport of goods and benefits for the environment. In the government's perspective report, it says: ‘We cannot continue over time a welfare system where more and more receive more than they contribute.’ This is no longer the case in the communication on causality. Nor in the State budget does the government mention the greatest economic challenge facing it. No one mentions the economic elephant in space, namely the costs of immigration. A perspective message that does not mention the greatest sovereign challenge for the welfare society is pointless. However, the SSB has stopped acting politically correctly. We've now got the real costs on the table, and honour being the Financial Newspaper to publish the numbers that the government is trying to hide. Where are the national media on this issue that is becoming the most important and demanding of our time? The commitments made by the Norwegian State through non-Western immigration are about 42 billion. kr annually, or around 4 pst. by the State budget. 4.1 million. kr per non-Western average, 42 billion. kr in annual commitments and SEK 4 100 billion. kr in total commitments up to 2100 are the best estimates available for the state financial consequences of immigration. But even these estimates are cautious, because they assume that the next generation will be fully integrated and have the same tax and social security cuts as the Nordics most. The fasite after eight years with Jens Stoltenberg at the rudder is: net immigration has increased by 246,000 people. These have received 71 billion. kr in government benefits. Furthermore, these have had a right to future public goods that will cost 376 billion. kr more than they will pay in taxes and taxes, given that the welfare and tax system does not change. The Minister of Finance is constantly stressing the financial challenges that the so-called older wave will face. These are people who have built up Norwegian society and are most liable to pay their taxes and taxes. Expenditure related to their pensions and care for the elderly is called a financial challenge by the Minister of Finance. But the far higher expenditures due to the government's own immigration policy, which are politically governed, the government chooses to ignore. It's a shame for all pensioners, who now hear after a long life in which they have worked and paid taxes, that they are a burden to society. The time is running out, and fortunately, the government has to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1642	Now this four-year anniversary of the Storting is over in just a few hours, and there's no secret that these four years have shown that the bourgeois parties have become more and more intertwined, while the red-green parties seem to be more tired and tired and are soon ready for a long summer vacation. I think they need that. In the Right's alternative revised budget, we use, and fill some content in, new ideas and better solutions. We take into account what the SSB is now reporting that since March last year unemployment has increased – probably not alarmingly – but it is rising. It's a break in the Norwegian line relative to the rest of the world. We are still getting enquiries from business that banks are not financing new, profitable projects. In a few years' time, there will be consequences for employment, because the employment rate will not rise, it will fall, compared to unemployment rates. We're looking for eight years of red-green government that bureaucracy's coming out. Whether it's in state departments, under supervision, in state officials or in others, it's esserating. Earlier this month, there have been debates on the Railway Agency, and it was seen in the last week's notice of 22,000 new state employees – who are not teachers, nurses or road workers. We see that there is a government that simply lacks implementation, the ability to lead every day in its departments and in its committees. It's a government that rules by headlines and statements, and they forget that once the Storing or Government has decided something, it's actually going to happen. In the right's alternative revised budget, we put a large-scale effort on knowledge at school. 1,750 teachers who are in a red-green queue today are motivated and have said yes to a marginality in order to become better teachers. Their municipalities are struggling to finance it, and the state's share is too low today. It does something for the Right to strengthen teaching in classrooms, because the Right believes it is the teachers who are the most important element in getting successful education in Norwegian school. In the Court's revised budget, we take the first steps to eliminate the property tax in the long term. In this magnification session, the right has opened up an alternative way of thinking about property taxes, i.e. halving the rate and introducing a minimum deduction of between 20 and 25 million. kr larger. It is a model of economic development that better matches the developments we see now, with increasing unemployment — possibly not reducing unemployment — while at the same time business needs more equity. Together with most civil parties, we also start the job of removing the inheritance fee. For the right hand side, we're going to do that now by removing step 1 and halving the sentences in step 2. For some reason: in the package of measures that the government has for business, which is supposedly urgent, there was something about the fact that the depreciation rules in the balance group d – I think it was – would apply from 1 January 2014. In the Right’s alternative budget, this has already been implemented six months earlier. Now we're repeating that it's going to apply from 1 July 2013. We have a lot of things to work with. The bourgeois parties have come together in very many comments and proposals for appropriations to a much greater extent than the red-greens did at the same time eight years ago. It is quite motivating for those of us who represent the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. For my own part, I also have to say that it is fun to contribute to the fact that the Right's net pay model is now almost identical to the red-green ones. There's only one difference of 74 million. kr. While the red-greens in the revised budget add 1.6 billion. kr, insert right approx. 1520 B.C.E. kr. I'm personally happy about that, and I think a lot of people are happy about that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1665	It is the field of knowledge that really gets the big promise in the revised national budget. You should always see the total bets over a year, in a whole, because the revised national budget is not a new budget. But I'm very pleased with the way the government and now the Storting is lifting up knowledge. The revised national budget, together with that previously adopted by the Stortinget, for 2013, will start building in the field of knowledge, higher education and research of a total of 9 billion. kr. It's an amazingly important bet. It's about Campus Ås, which is going to be an amazing university. It's about the auditorium at the University of Bergen and the School of Art and Design in Bergen, and it's about the new technology building at the University of Southern Trøndelag. This is all long-awaited construction and incredibly important infrastructure for Norwegian higher education and research. There are also many other things happening in the research and education sector. I am very pleased that we are already working on a ten-year long-term plan for research and higher education, so that we can see the effort on research together with infrastructure, together with fellow students, together with study places, to get better and more focused environments and to ensure that the education and teaching part of the mission of the higher institutions is further lifted. In addition, Norway is now also in place to be a full-fledged member of Horizon 2020, which is the EU's major new research and innovation programme. It is very important that we facilitate the cooperation of Norwegian research communities with their friends internationally, and that they can get the maximum out of that cooperation. This comes at the top of the very good progress that we see in Norwegian school, which we have seen in recent years, and which is in stark contrast to what is the development of school results in Sweden. Now I'm going to say that it's never like that results from international tests tell the whole and full truth about Norwegian school. This doesn't apply when the arrows go up, or when they go down. But we have spectacular good progress. Norwegian students are the ones who have the greatest success in the international mathematics study TIMMS. The fourth grade beats all out of 63 countries. Norwegian teenagers are now best in the Nordic countries in mathematics. The Norwegian fourth grade has resumed almost a full year in literacy, and the proportion of fourth graders who achieved below the lowest limit in reading has fallen from 12 pst. to 5 pst. It's incredibly important – there are 4,000 real fourths every year. This means that we can thank Norwegian teachers and students for the efforts they have made. They have worked systematically, it is a marked change of attitude – with early efforts, follow-up and feedback to students, continuing training of teachers, clearer attention on learning goals and that we have called for an inclusive common school. The main difference in road choices between Sweden and Norway is that we have called about the common school, rejected and called back privatisation permits in Norwegian school. The Swedes have gone the other way. Everyone should be aware of the way the results are going. It is also interesting for this debate that the Education Directorate yesterday published the results of its supervision of six of the Akademie schools and the Bergen Private Gymnas. The claim is that they repay 18.5 million. kr, because overpriced services from related companies have been paid. There has been a way of circumventing the dividend ban. So there's no reason for School Norway to go up to the privatisation experiment that the right-hand side wants to start. Neither are any of those I meet in Norwegian school who believe that introducing numbers for children in high school is required – on the contrary. Now it's about holding on to what we know works. We are now launching a comprehensive programme to strengthen youth. 250 schools shall participate in three semesters of recurrent training programmes to improve classroom management, reading and writing. Together with the increased efforts we are now making for the professions, we have many forward-looking approaches to how we will continue to progress in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1685	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1688	Let me start by thanking the Council of State for the cooperation over the last four years. I congratulate the Council of State on finally finding money for the technology building on HiST. It is also the case that the Council of State leaves behind a university and higher education sector with alarming needs for new infrastructure, an infrastructure that can strengthen research and education throughout Norway. Nevertheless, the government chooses to use the funds for the transfer of the Veterinary College and the Veterinary Institute, from Adamstuen to Ås, a project that has cost 2.5 billion, 3.5 billion, 5.2 billion. and now $6.3 billion. kr, without equipment being included in that price, and without professional justification. Had it not been possible to find better measures to use what is likely to be 8 billion. kr on, than moving something no one will move, and getting a very uncertain professional effect?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1697	I would like to return and thank Tord Lien for a very good cooperation on education policy over the four years that have gone by. I have absolute intention of continuing, although Tord Lien unfortunately leaves us for other tasks. I really want to invite Tord Lien on a trip to Ås. That's because we're going to have a great university at Ås, and because we're going through the process that's now been, that's about the co-location of the Veterinary College, the University of Ås and the Veterinary Institute, we've seen that requirements in terms of infectious diseases, laboratories and how to handle large livestock, would hardly have been particularly sustainable in the long run to have such a demanding facility in the center of Oslo. I believe that we now have a facility that has its own future. It's going to have the most modern infrastructure in Europe, yes, worldwide. It's going to be attractive for researchers from many countries. This is going to be real fun, and Tord Lien is invited.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1704	The teacher's competence is the key to continuing the progress that the Council of State and we're all finding going on in Norwegian school. But after eight years of red-green government, we are still as far away from the system of continuing education as Norwegian teachers want – a system that could create predictability and give Norwegian teachers the skills they need. At the pace of today, it would take 30-40 years for Norwegian teachers to receive further training in the subjects in which they actually teach. This week the cat actually left the bag again, because now there was an annual counting of 1.7 billion. kr for school food, while the government in this period has spent 400 million. kr in the year of continuing training of Norwegian teachers. Is this government's future priority to spend four times as much on food as you use for the further training of Norwegian teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1711	We have a lot of money to spend at school, because we're not going to spend any of the money that the Right is going to distribute to tax dollars, to tax dollars. So we have the opportunity to set new goals for how to develop Norwegian school. I'm absolutely sure that if we had got to a more comprehensive school day, with physical activity, healthy food, more opportunities to finish homework, greater teacher density, inspired teachers and other employees who can support the teaching that teachers have, we'll get to a school that's more up-to-date given the needs of the future. In the case of continuing training, all those for whom the municipalities are applying are granted follow-up training from our government. The difference between the Right and the Government's training scheme is that the price tag of the Right is 20 pst. share of the municipalities, while our price label is 25 pst. share of the municipalities. I am glad to see what calculations the right has made, which means that it would trigger so many more further training courses for the teachers. Show me them!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1718	There's a lot of evidence that, in any case, Kristin Halvorsen and I are not going to meet in a line changer again. So I want to look back a little bit. It was the current state councilman Anniken Huitfeldt and then State Councilman Øystein Djupedal who negotiated with me today's private school law. I have to say that I have very much appreciated the way that Kristin Halvorsen has handled this, as she eventually entered the government apparatus. She has shown a willingness to find good solutions, except in terms of economics, but in terms of legislation and approval. But then we stumble a little bit at the end – and that's Kongshaug school. It now has the government parts here in the hall ready to fix again. So my little question is, Is Kongshaug now stuck inside, or are they going to experience that they have to go by train? Then I can promise the Council of State that Eriksen will go on that train.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1725	Let me say it like this: I'm very happy that Kongshaug is inside, it didn't come as a surprise to me. I think it is nice that Stortinget has made sure that the good offer can continue in the same range. I am also pleased that Dagrun Eriksen appreciates the fact that we have been able to find good solutions in small and large areas that are concerned with providing good framework conditions for private schools, because we are going to have an element of private schools, but we are not going to facilitate a comprehensive privatisation and commercialisation of Norwegian school. I would also like to thank the representative of Dagrun Eriksen. She's not going to be a staging representative for the next period, and that's why we're not going to be taken in this form again. I'm going to be here, of course, until Dovre falls. I also want to say that I think we have had a lot of points about getting to a more practical, varied and motivating school, and the commitment to high school, where an incredible number of students are asking for a more motivating school and a more inclusive school. I've really appreciated that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1736	I would also like to thank you for many funny debates, which I think have contributed to the fact that school policy has come up higher on the agenda. Sick if the council doesn't make choices, the undersigned does it – it takes a lot before you get rid of me here. My question goes in an area that I know that I and the Council of State have a common commitment to, and that is for the poor children, who often fall outside in recreational activities, but within the school. I see that the Council of State has an engagement today in terms of SFOs, or activity schools, as it is called in Oslo, to reach precisely those groups that benefit from participating in such offers as activity schools and SFOs, and that it seems to be a good initiative. However, in Norway today, we see that it is approx. 10 municipalities, including the left-hand management of Oslo, which have income differentiation in order to ensure that families are able to use activity schools with the worst advice. Why does the Council of State not want to support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1747	There's always a dilemma how much to control the local authorities' offerings, and we're in the middle of it when we discuss what is going to be the price of the SFO. I submitted yesterday a guide on quality in the SFO and the activity school, because a lot of municipalities have to work to get quality up, and it is my wish that we should tighten it up further. What is my goal – and we are approaching the discussion about parental pay in the SFO – is to give a greater share of the offer that many children today receive at the SFO, as a free offer in connection with the school day. Cultural school hours are such an offer, homework is also such an offer. It's very interesting to see what we can get out of this trial plan we're now going to have on Mortensrud. There's a huge increase in how many children would like to attend. There are many children with a minority background who do not have Norwegian language as their mother tongue, who attend this school, and who will benefit very much from being in a Norwegian-speaking environment more of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1754	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1757	This ageing period goes inexorably towards the end – people thank each other, and it's nice to look at. But I had a weak hope that this very last debate would bring us closer to some of the questions that remain open about what alternative economic policy the opposition sees itself leading it. We haven't gotten that yet. I have to say that it makes me worried. The crisis in Europe is breaking down. We're going to notice that in Norway too. We've been warning you about that for a long time. As several of the speakers before me have been involved, we are beginning to see some rather worrying signs. I would like to repeat the chairman of the committee who started by saying that there is no crisis in the Norwegian economy now, but it is important that we have control of our main contribution to low interest rates and exchange rates, namely a responsible financial policy and a responsible use of oil money. In this situation, Siv Jensen announces that the Progress Party is ready to take up the Ministry of Finance. Just to have said it right away: I have faith in the Progress Party in government. I have faith that they will there to implement something, and that they are actually going to get through. That is why we must also take seriously what is the entry of the Progress Party into economic policy, even if it may be difficult. Just too briefly to remember what kind of history this party has in terms of the attitude to oil money use: first, oil money should be earmarked for pensions. So they would have foreign accounts. Then the designation came to transport, and now they will have two rules of action – one for operation and one for investment. The batch of advances shall have for the effort during the last year in order to try to give the increased use of oil money a better wrap than before. I have to say – Solvik-Olsen should have on his last day as a representative – that he has dedicated a great deal of time to point out the obvious, that the rule of action does not represent any millimetre of science. It must be combined with reason, of course, one must take into account the economic situation, and that the rule of action does not embrace everything that happens in the Norwegian economy. It's a rule to discipline the use of money over the state budget. The alarming fact is that it is possible to spend so much time pointing out that there are gaps in the rule of action, while at the same time putting so much effort into arguing to expand the gaps. In the setting of the revision, we are shown some of what this is about. There, the Progress Party writes – among other things: ‘These members regard the rule of action as an important reminder that we should use the money carefully and in the long term.’ A remembering rule, actually. Then we talk quickly about a yellow post IT note over the office desk where it says: Remember not to spend too much money. I believe we can certainly say that the history of Norwegian oil money use would look completely different without the common disciplinary framework that everyone who has been close to having responsibility for economic policy has largely respected. The action rule has not been a reminder. The new thing is that a party leader who mentions the fight against the rules of action as one of his most important issues in a possible government debate, has actually set the course against the Ministry of Finance and warned that there is a place where she could expect to settle down. So finally, it's quite striking how representatives from it, as long as the largest opposition party, are allowed to stand here and raddle over the Norwegian economy framework without the right representatives lifting as much as one eyebrow – not one word to defend that framework and the foundation on which the Right has now stood. The right guarantees that economic policy is responsible and tries to signal in every possible way that we should not worry too much about the shrinkage of the Progress Party. But I want to remind you, President – and it is true that this President is sitting here – that when the Right sat in government last, when they sat without the Advance Party, the party was unable to resist the pressure for an ever more expansive use of money. During the Bondevik period, nearly 100 billion were spent. kr more than the rule of action was added, and shift more and more bills to the next generation. This means that I have limited faith in the Right's ability and willingness to limit the Progress Party in the Ministry of Finance – and today's debate unfortunately has not made that belief stronger. Finally, I can assure the representative Kambe that there is no one here who is tired – too much is at stake for a long vacation on some of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1795	The President shall not take a line. However, as the rapporteur at the time for the vote on the rules of action, I would like to thank all the praises that have emerged directly and indirectly through many years of debate. – The next speaker is the representative of Kenneth Svendsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1800	As others have said before me, the revised budget is not a new budgetary procedure, and the Progress Party does not add up to a rebudget in the budget adopted in December. I see that several other parties are proposing proposals that were voted down in December. There are therefore several of the proposals that are being put forward today, which we agree on, but which we are voting against, given that this is a review of the adopted budget. The inheritance fee is such an example. We see signs of a cooling-down of the Norwegian economy today, and there are signs of increased unemployment. That's why we're doing a lot of grips, as Solvik-Olsen has explained. The revised budget shall include: some changes in car charges. These are changes we support, but this is probably evidence of an immature and poorly adapted charging system for passenger cars. There has almost been no budgetary procedure in recent years, where there has been no faltering of the current car tax system. It shows that the components of the system are removed and that it does not capture the technical changes that occur. For this reason, the Progress Party has promoted its own proposal for a representative based on only two things: emissions and a single fee. This system is based on well-developed parameters such as CO2 emissions, which are one of today's parameters, and a low unit fee. It is a forward-looking charging system that does not need changes as car engines are modernised. A switch to such a charging system, with a low rate of excise duty and a CO2 rate, will result in a much faster replacement of the car fleet, which will benefit the environment, and dynamic effects will result in a substantial maintenance of the revenue of the state fund. I started by saying that we see signs of increased unemployment. One of the areas where a person sees clearly the loss of jobs, including: to Sweden, is the border trade. Trade in goods has increased over the year. Competition between enterprises, whether in Norway or between Norwegian and foreign enterprises, is now not negative — rather the opposite, but the problem arises when it is not competitive on equal terms. Many enterprises in border regions are losing turnover and jobs due to Norwegian policies and excise duties. One can go right across the border and buy Norwegian meat products at a lower price than in Norway, for example. because of subsidies on exports. Nordics can travel to Sweden and buy cheap chocolate and shower, cheap cakes and cheap sugars and ‘goodies’, as it is called in Swedish. They can do so because in Norway there is a sugar charge on these products and in Sweden there is no sugar charge. This is an area where Norwegian companies lose in competition with Sweden, not because they are less competitive, but because they are subject to a sugar levy on their products. In other words, the Norwegian red-greens are the ones that make them lose in the competition. Here we are dealing with an interesting topic: sugar tax, another of the many wonderful fees in Norway. But not enough with that, in Norway the red-greens manage the piece of art to charge Pepsi Max and Cola Zero, both without sugar, a sugar charge. And not enough, Dent and other sugar-free pastilles are also charged sugar. This is high-level logic, and you obviously have to belong to a red-green party to understand it. The whole system has been implemented bureaucratically and creates major problems for companies that import, produce and sell goods. If you import a bag of biscuits and one of the pieces has been drawn with chocolate, you will have to pay a sugar charge for all the biscuits, even if all the biscuits have a sugar content lower than the sugar levy limit. After studying the rules and bureaucracy around the sugar charge, I think it could have been a very good review of it – unfortunately it is not funny for the many affected by this. We have debated the inheritance tax in this Chamber on many occasions in the past, and I would like to show that the Progress Party on several occasions, most recently at the time of the 2013 state budget, has proposed that it be removed. I'm sure there aren't many of those who have worked hard to set off values for their survivors, who had a search warrant state in mind. At least I don't have the state in mind when I think about those who will inherit me, and I don't think there are many others who have it either. The Progress Party will also propose to remove this fee in the future. Norway has a variety of charges for everything between heaven and earth. Common to all is that they are high, and common to most is that they contain a strong progression. Unfortunately, many Norwegian excise duties are not available in other countries. All these charges help to ensure that Norway is at its peak in terms of cost levels. It helps to drive wage costs, which in turn makes us increasingly in a more difficult competitive situation with non-residents, regardless of whether it is border trade or competition with non-residents. One way to reduce this wage pressure would have been to lower taxes as part of wage negotiations. There are suggestions here in the Chamber, but unfortunately the majority of the population are going to vote it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1826	Then we round a new bend in politics: the last revision of the budget before the voters go to elections. It is a debate that deserves a little more attention; it is, after all, an important document. It's in many ways, too many of us, one last chance. I understand that the opposition reacts somewhat painfully to the fact that clarifications are requested. I would like to remind you that we do not call for clarifications in budget lines here and there, small, but – perhaps for some – important amounts in difficult budgets, there is a sugar levy on Dent, forest roads, Inn-on-tunet projects or, for that matter, allocation to the conflict councils, even if one might wish to strengthen the latter, when we hear the opposition. That's not what we want. One calls for what may in many ways be the greatest political challenge today in the Europe we live in, in the economy that we are going to deal with in the years to come. And we are, after all, in a budget debate. What are we going to do to meet the enormous challenges Europe and its surroundings pose? Yes, we had believed and expected that we would have clarifications about important tools to resist, and also to be able to build on, from those who have ambitions to become a government coalition to the harvest – signals that in some important areas one had managed to create consensus. This is not just about describing opposition policy, it is also about describing to the greatest extent what kind of policy the red-greens stand for – because that is the opposite. However, there are still no clarifications, whether about coverage, tax levels, or how much oil money is to be used. Yes, after the debate this morning I have almost become even more uncertain, and especially from how calmly I hear the Right sitting in the hall. I react and think that many people have reason to respond. I believe that a central theme for voters to go to the urns must be that there is a significant gap between the Right and the Advance Party, for example. how much oil money this society will spend. It must be interesting and important for the voters, before they vote, to have a certain clarification of what should govern such a total use. It must be interesting to know whether to jointly invest in many of the challenges we face in the welfare community or whether to actually give between 25 billion. kr and 100 brd. kr in tax bill. Most of us believe that these are vital sizes to prevent the economy from running wild with us, ensuring both low interest rates, competitiveness and sustainability. It's central to those of us who believe that how we distribute resources in society is one of the most central questions. The society that distributes resources best, and has the most even distribution, is also the society that manages to withstand economic times that we live in and that produce the best. Finally, I would like to express great pleasure at the fact that the government, through this revised budget, is meeting the absolutely necessary needs of the continental economy – especially the forest package that is now about to be voted on. Only in my own county, Hedmark, 14 000 jobs are linked to agriculture and forestry, and I still register with dismay the fury that the Progress Party, with good help from the Right, really suggests, with such drastic cuts among others. in agricultural aid. From this point of view, we need all sorts of impulses to travel this industry in the time we live in. The three-process package that is currently on the table provides a long-term boost for this activity. With a volume of 750 million. kr is a very good follow-up to the package last year. It contributes significantly to the lifting of both research and innovation in an area that needs it more than ever, it helps to raise transport and reduced transport costs and, not least, it contributes very well to providing more investment. Keeping the economy in a good way and keeping track of the main sizes gives us the opportunity to take exactly the steps that the government is now taking.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1837	We live at a time when Norway’s competitiveness needs to be more focused. I would assume that it is also Norway's competitiveness internationally that is some of the reasons why the government suddenly, after eight years, realizes that something needs to be done with, for example. corporation tax, i.e. lower it. That's why I want to spend my kicks for 5 minutes on just how Norway's competitiveness is today. I am very pleased that Højres Erna Solberg mentioned in his post and was concerned about how miserable Norway is doing it in the World Bank's corps and analysis, based on their «Doing Business». According to our own NHO's competitiveness survey, Norway is the worst among the Nordic countries. Not in any of the areas compared, Norway is the best place to live. The NHO competitiveness barometer compares Norway’s competitiveness with our main trading partners in the OECD and is based on international statistics and a survey of business leaders. While Finland receives three first places, Denmark two and Sweden one, Norway does not get one. The Nordic countries in general do well, but Norway is the country in the Nordic countries that does the worst, despite large natural resources and great freedom of action. We have the opportunity -- the red-greens have had the opportunity to do something about this for eight years. Worst is Norway in the transport sector, only Poland and the Czech Republic are behind us, but also in research, innovation and taxation Norway is cutting low. Another analysis, from The World Economic Forum, concludes that Norway has the worst roads in the entire Western world. We come to 83rd place of 140 countries that are included in this relatively fresh report. According to this analysis, France has the best roads, but also other ‘winter countries’ come out of this international comparison — Finland in 9th place, Canada in 16th place and Sweden in 25th place. So Norway is going to be in position. 83, behind Jamaica and so far in front of Ghana. The national transport plan for 2014-2023 appears to provide for an increase in road investment. But when the planning period ends, even after eleven years, Norway will still have the worst road network in the entire Western world. I think it is sad that we are not now using the chance to bet massively on road development to improve the country's competitiveness. In particular, we will need it when oil and gas activities in Norway are decreasing significantly. In fact, very many road projects not prioritised in the national transport plan will yield a much higher return than the State pension fund abroad has currently achieved or is likely to be able to cope with in the future. The World Economic Forum also has an annual ranking of the world's most competitive economies, where Switzerland's top list, with Singapore as no. 2nd@item: inlistbox Norway is No. 15, i.e. worse than our neighbouring countries and trading partners – Finland no. 3, Sweden No 4, Netherlands No 5, Germany No 6, United Kingdom No. 8 and Denmark No 12th@item: inlistbox Why are we not numbers? 1? But it's a slight light point. The International Chamber of Commerce IMD in Switzerland also has an annual ranking of the most competitive countries in the world. Here we climb up a little bit and fortunately end up in a sixth place. But once again we have to see ourselves turned off by the Swedes, who get a fourth place, and Singapore a fifth place. On the pole, we have the United States, Switzerland and Hong Kong. We also have choirs that take on competitive cities. Here we don't have any Norwegian cities on top either. Oslo's going to be at the bottom of a 33rd place. In eight years, the government has increased the use of oil money, but very much has gone to increased bureaucracy and resulted in higher costs. We have to think new. The Progress Party has presented an offensive and forward-looking approach to the national transport plan. We have already started with the follow-up to this in the context of the revised national budget for 2013. A strong commitment to transport, tax relief, research and knowledge will ensure that Norway becomes no. 1 in the world of competitiveness and economic freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1856	Previous speeches — despite nitite studies of rankings — must have missed important information. Since 2005, there have been 340 000 new jobs in this country. Two thirds of them are in the private sector. We went to the elections in 2005 for an active industrial policy. We've been betting where we're good. We have strengthened the instrument every year. We have delivered a yard package and a forest package. We have delivered in terms of simplification. Examples are the removal of the audit obligation for small enterprises and a high level of efforts in the field of digitisation. Many have talked about it, but the red-green government has implemented it. It is a turbulent time in Europe. Millions of people are out of work, and it's serious. Many young people take education and go straight to unemployment. More than half of Spanish youth are out of work. Even in our neighbouring country, Sweden, every fourth youth is out of work. Sweden’s young people cross the border with Norway to get a job. Growth in the eurozone for 2013 is going to be negative, while we have good growth in Norway. However, we have always said — and it is repeated several times today — that Norway too can be affected by crises. We see that the export-oriented industry has challenges. Then it is good that we have opportunities to take action. That is why, in the revised national budget, we have announced a growth package for business. We're going to reduce the corporate tax from 28 pst. until 27 pst. We're going to expand the tax FUNN scheme by 100 million. kr, and we're going to increase the rate of initial write-down on machines. This is an important contribution to Norwegian business, which has been very well received throughout the country. We take the deposits for heads by closing the tax gaps for multinational corporations and tightening up the taxes on wealth for those who own more than one dwelling. As I said, this has been very well received in business. Welcome after, says Right and Advance Party. I think that's strange, all the time they've never suggested to lower the corporate tax. Instead, they have talked about the wealth tax and the owners. Here we're doing a grip that goes directly on the profits of the companies. In addition, we have set up a separate sample to look at corporate taxation from an international perspective. This is how we ensure that Norway will continue to be competitive. This week we have delivered many good political things – a new national transport plan with 508 billion. kr to be used for transport during the next 10 years, an agricultural agreement giving agriculture new opportunities, and the municipal proposition, which was dealt with in the hall yesterday. Through these issues, we also see what we can face if there were to be a civil majority after the election. In the field of transport, there is total disagreement about tolls, the total envelope and OPS. And the Progress Party is voting against the entire agricultural agreement. With regard to the financing of services in the municipal sector, the Progress Party is in its own world – with unit price financing and detailed management of municipalities, which will greatly increase the state bureaucracy. So the most important thing, and as Marianne Marthinsen described very well: there is no consensus on how much money it is going to spend in total. Siv Jensen said to DN on Thursday that she would not follow the rule of action – but she would like to be Minister of Finance. Erna Solberg says she will follow the rule of action. So the use of money is in blue. Something else that has created uncertainty in business is the proposals of the Progress Party in the preparation of wages and salaries. Both last year and this year, they proposed that the government intervene in the settlement through tax havens. One of the pillars of the Norwegian model is that the social partners take responsibility for keeping wage increases over time within the framework of the companies exporting. This responsibility is undermined if the State intervenes in the settlement. Past experience with similar measures shows that this leads to a sharp deterioration in government finances and the Norwegian economy. A number of issues in economic policy are unsolved on the civil side, primarily with regard to the Progress Party, which is just aiming to be the leader of economic policy in a new bourgeois government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1882	We have high employment in Norway, and unemployment is low. We have low leave compared to other countries, and most are available in a short time. But we are also not unaffected by the crisis in Europe. The government expects unemployment to remain somewhat stable in the future, but closely monitor the situation and developments. High demand for labour over many years leads many more people to choose to come to Norway to work. It is important, but at the same time this is vulnerable labour. When youth unemployment in Spain is up to 50pst, many young people come here and many are also under pressure in the workplace. That is why we are presenting a third action plan on social dumping. Poor working conditions do not apply only to migrant workers. Experience has shown that some industries are characterised by very unprofessional activities. Therefore, we have had to clean up the clean-up sector through a separate industry programme with employers and employees in order to ensure better control and compliance with laws and regulations. Now we're going to start with two new industries: the outdoor industry and the transport industry. We are told that it is partly unprofessional actors, and that makes it harder for the serious to survive. The new action plan contains a lot of measures, and it is much more about more control for the Labour Inspectorate, but also about giving new tools to the Labour Inspectorate, such as: the possibility of charging. Today, LO's summer patrol opens, and at the time they've been holding, they're discovering fewer and fewer violations of the rules regarding youth in summer jobs. It shows that presence is effective. In the revised national budget, we also propose strengthening the Labour Inspectorate so that they can provide more information to young workers from Norway and from other countries. We want to spend $6 million. kr on this bet. The government is emphasising active labour market policies and, therefore, strengthening measures for people with disabilities. 600 new places are important to provide more opportunities for action, and we will also intensify efforts to improve the quality of those measures so that people can return to work more quickly. Interpreting services include, inter alia: interpreting, interpreting to deaf people and interpreting and accompanying help for deaf people. There is a growing need for interpreting services in the fields of education, work and other social participation. We see that both the deaf and the deaf become more active – it is very positive. But there is also a need for increased interpretation services, and that is why we are proposing to increase the budgets here by 8.3 million. kr. A few years ago, it was 20 pst. of the orders ordered, which were refused. Now there's 10 pst. But there's still a lot of deaf and deaf blind people who need more use of interpreters. In the last few years, sick leave has fallen, and when sick leave goes down, we also see that there is a reduction in redundancy pay and there is a decrease in the number of people who are moving on to disability pension. That's why we're going to cut a budget, and that's 5 billion. kr on the expenses of the public interest. That's because sick leave goes down. Then there will be fewer redundancy payments, fewer disability benefits, fewer daily allowances. As far as retirement age is concerned, much more people are postponing retirement. That's why the cost of retirement is also reduced in relation to what we thought. It shows that the working line is working, and it shows that the agreement on inclusive working life is working, where we have come a long way in cooperation with the parties. In the autumn we start negotiations on a new agreement to increase the effort to get more people working.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1897	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1900	I noticed that the Council of State commented on the situation of the deaf blind in its article, and that it has now proposed 8.3 million. kr more for interpreting. One of the major problems, and the challenges, is to be able to have an active, participating life. The question to the Council of State is, how much of the 8.3 million have been earmarked specifically for accompanying? The next question I have is that we have a high level of employment and a low level of unemployment in Norway – as the Council of State was about. We are still in a situation where 700,000 people in working life are out of work. Only 16 pst. by those who are in the qualification programme, after 12 months of work, and have a job and income without any benefit. 26 pst. of the 24 pst. who have a job, also have benefits from Nav. Are the government councils satisfied with the results of the qualification programme in terms of getting immigrants and others into the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1907	There were two questions. I'm going to answer the first one, which is about the deaf blind. As I said in the Storting a few days ago, this money is not earmarked. Now we have a dialogue with the deaf organisations and the deaf blind organisations, and the record of the last meeting says that we should give some of this money to the deaf. They have also prioritised – very many of them – the short assignments that concern their daily lives, following weddings, family events, and participating and living an active life. The concrete use of money, we will come back after a dialogue with the organisations. We have helped to increase these budgets in recent years. In 2009 it was 102 million. kr for deaf interpretation and interpretation for deaf blind people, now it is 140 million. kr. Most of the increase has been to the deaf blind, who live a more active life – that’s good – so they need more help to interpret everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1914	I was very happy when I saw that Huitfeldt's councillor was coming here today, because I hoped that I would hear that she was carrying a "July press", either to deaf blind children or to poor children. I guess I'm really disappointed. At least there was nothing for the children, and that was the same thing we've heard before, for the deaf blind. I understand that the government will nevertheless vote down the opposition's package of measures for precise and short measures to remedy the situation of poor children. Then my question is, what will the government do in the short term as an alternative for the social integration of poor children?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1922	The most important thing we can do for poor children is to get parents to participate in the working life. If one of the parents is out of work, it is very likely that you will end up on the statistics on poor children. Work is the most important thing. We need to do more to get active participation from children and young people. That's why I've been involved in a free cultural school, because it's also part of the Cultural Promise that everyone should be able to participate in leisure activities regardless of their economy. That's why we're adding this to school. It's been right all along. I believe that poverty today is less about not having butter on a bread roll or not having clothes that are warm, but it is about not participating in common arenas. Holiday and leisure services, I believe, are one of the most important things we can do to help children living in low-income families get a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1929	The council says that the deaf and deaf blind have got more money for interpretation. That's right. However, the changes made in 2012 have led users who need deaf interpreters to lose their leisure activities. The council said from this pulpit on Tuesday that no one who had an offer before 2012 would lose it afterwards. Then my question is as follows: There is more money, and no one should lose it. Will the Council of State soon reverse the changes that occurred in 2012 in recreational activity for deaf blind people, a group of 350 people, who really need someone to accompany them so that they can be part of the society that others take as a matter of course also in our leisure time?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1934	Some deaf-blind people do not receive the interpreting services they need, nor do they receive recreational services. This was the case before, and therefore, in recent years, we have helped to strengthen supply through increased budgets. There are new guidelines in place, but they were not done in a good way. I have regretted that with the organisations of the deaf blind. I believe that this kind of change must be made in collaboration with the organisations. We have a dialogue with the deaf-blind organisations, and we will ensure that new guidelines are practised slowly until guidance is given to those who are deaf. We want to strengthen the budgets of the years to come, so that deaf and deaf people can live a more active life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1943	Studies show that a total of 28 pst. of the disabled who are not employed, want to be able to work intensively. There are more than 80,000 people who would have liked to have participated in the labour market, but the labour market is not organized for them. It's not a new issue, but I'm disappointed that the government doesn't do any more to get these groups into work. Today, in our alternative revised budget, the Left has presented a number of proposals for more organised jobs that would have had more of these 80,000 out in work. It would have been good for the individual, but it is also good for the Norwegian economy. Yesterday in the Chamber, Minister of Health Gahr called on the big government parties to vote for some of the Left's proposals when we dealt with the public health report. Can we expect an equally clear-sighted Minister of Labour on the proposals we have put forward in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1952	With regard to the agreement on inclusive working life, we have come a long way in terms of sick leave and retirement, but we have not come very far in terms of people with disabilities in the workplace. Yesterday I was at a company in the Sola and met representatives of the employers' and employees' organisations, who gave me very clear advice. When it comes to different schemes to increase the number of people with disabilities in the workplace, we didn't have to come up with a lot of new things. For here, a plan has been presented with many new instruments, and businesses have problems getting involved in all the new schemes that we have put in place. We're going to continue with salary subsidies, because I think that'll help, but we're going to make the tools we have more available. Now we're going to start an agreement on an inclusive working life and negotiations with the parties about it for the autumn. Then, of course, this will be one of the themes. I do not ignore the fact that the Left’s proposals are good, but I will listen to the parties – employers and employees – and see if we can get more and better action, but that does not lead to more bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1961	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1964	The financial crisis is Europe's. It is not just banks and states that are hit, but ordinary people. Mass unemployment has returned. Twenty-five million are available. Where you're hoping to see growth, you'll see a flare and a drop. This is due to a decline in GDP in the euro area this year. The value creation has now fallen six quarters in a row. The problems are not just in the east and south. Our neighbouring countries, and bearing euro countries such as Germany and France, also have problems. Norway is hit. We're not an isolated island. Our business life depends on the rest of the world. When demand fails in Europe, smaller fish are purchased from North Norway, smaller metals from the West and smaller paper from the East. We've done well now. There is no crisis, but the signs of danger become clearer: unemployment is rising, industrial investment is falling, and the export value of traditional goods is falling. The Government has promoted a revised national budget meeting this situation. We have presented a growth package for Norwegian companies: We strengthen business. The company tax is reduced. We're stimulating investment. Depreciation rates are increased. We stimulate research and development. TAX FUNN is being strengthened. In addition, we present a separate package to strengthen the forest industry. Every penny is funded. We close tax gaps and make it less profitable for international groups to conduct tax planning. In addition, we improve the tax system for the petroleum industry. In total, these changes will significantly strengthen Norwegian enterprises in the mainland. We are ready to renegotiate if needed – with new efforts and new actions. However, the large picture remains that the situation in the Norwegian economy is in stark contrast with the countries around us. We have growth in the economy and employment is still high. The availability is less than one third of the average in the euro zone. Yes, unemployment is lower with this government during the financial crisis than it was every year during the last government without the financial crisis. This has not come about by itself. Oil revenues have helped us, but there are enough examples that natural resource revenues are not a guarantee against decline, unemployment and economic chaos. So it's about something more. We have put in place powerful measures when necessary. We have strengthened the quality of education and increased efforts in research. We have put in a historic effort to develop roads, railways and ports. However, it is vital that we have kept the economy in order. We have managed our large revenues well and resisted the temptation to spend more money than we should – even though we have all noticed the pressure. The lists of good purposes are many and long. We know so well that if we set interest rates and interest rates, we all get hit. The industry will notice it first, but it does strike the whole community. The jobs can disappear and the mortgages can be more expensive. When there are unsafe times, and other countries are struggling heavily, it is especially important to keep order in your own house. That is why we have repeatedly asked the opposition to clarify the foundation of the economic policy that they want to pursue, without it having helped. We know a good deal about what a possible Right Party government will do. More of the money will go to tax havens, where we'd rather bet on schools and hospitals. There will be more private schools where we'd rather bet on quality in common school. There will be more temporary jobs where we would rather strengthen the rights of workers. There will be dramatic cuts in agricultural aid, where we would rather bet on living areas. But we know nothing about their economic policies. No one requires parties who want to rule together to clarify all policies before a choice. But the rule of action and financial accountability stand in a special position, because it is the foundation of everything else we want to do. Citizens do not have the power to find a common answer to this absolutely crucial question. On the contrary, the image is more confusing than ever. The Prime Minister's candidate is financially responsible. The Minister of Finance candidate has as a Memorandum of Understanding the removal of the rule of action. It is those who have the ambition to become the leading party and take the Prime Minister's post, who are responsible for giving answers. It has not yet come. We're still waiting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1996	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e1999	The world's richest country, is a statement we hear more and more often. It's a statement I'm very skeptical of, not because the hold in it is not close to the truth, but that it should do something to us – that we should lean back and believe that we are so rich that we can behave differently, different from everyone else. We can't, and we can't. Compared with the situation in most other countries, both the state of public finances and the prospects for the coming years are very good in Norway. However, there is no greater room for action than the need for priority. The increased space for action in the state budget that we are now revising has not come about by itself. Oil revenues have given us great opportunities, but it is primarily taxes from the mainland economy that have financed the increased costs or construction of Velferds-Norway. Since 2005, the use of oil revenues has increased by 56 billion. 2013-kronor. Over time, the scope of action in budgetary policy is about responsible economic policy or safe economic governance. We have prioritised work, value creation and well-being. We also have to do that in the years to come. Not all good purposes can be satisfied. Then we have to pursue an economic policy that does not hit our competitive businesses. Then we have to think long-term and keep order in our own house. Then we have to prepare ourselves for the fact that the Norwegian economy too will be able to face difficult times. It has not been given that the good development of the Norwegian economy will last indefinitely. I want to look back at some major issues that have meant too many. We have full babysitting, and not least we have kept the price low. In this context, it is worth remembering that the right time and time again, also now revised, proposes to increase the price of space in kindergarten. We got to stop Right privatisation of the school. Thank you – when we see what happens in the private school in Sweden. There we see bankruptcies and students losing their schools. We now have free high school, and if we ask the students about this, they think it's always been like that. No, it hasn't always been like that. The red-green government has introduced it. We've built over 1,000 student homes a year. We have a much better community economy today than when I was rapporteur in 2005. I can promise you that it was a hard drive. On the political agenda then stood cut, cut, cut, and not where it was important to bet. There was a fairly common discussion in the municipality about how to avoid getting on the ROBEK list. Today, the number of ROBEK municipalities is more than halved. The national budget provides estimates of the growth of income in the municipal sector, and since 2005 the total income of the local government sector has increased by 68 billion. 2013-kronor. The industry, as I have mentioned, has been very busy getting into an industrial power regime, and it is now in place. What they want most of everything now is safe economic governance. The red-green government has shown – and will show in the future – that this is important to get to everything else that builds a fair Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2020	According to the EU's poverty measurement method, in 2011 106 000 persons aged 0-17 years could be described as poor in Norway. So the number and proportion of poor children have grown. This is the accounts after eight years with a government that said they could eliminate poverty with a pen stroke, and that it was just about political will. The right has never thought that this is a simple problem. The most important measure to combat child poverty is that mothers and fathers have a job and income to live on. Then comes a good, socially equalising school, that people are being treated in health care — for example: if they have mental disorders — and that people are helped to master drug problems and to ensure that people do not experience social marginalisation. However, there will always be someone outside, permanently or temporarily, and children will be affected innocently. The community should therefore assume an additional responsibility to ensure that this group is included in as many arenas as possible in an equivalent manner. Therefore, it is quite incomprehensible to me that the government parties cannot support these measures proposed by the Right and the entire opposition today. They would not solve the poverty problem once and for all, but they would be an important step towards a better poverty policy. Not least this summer they would be some sort of July press, which I challenged the Council of State at this very moment. So we're going to add 70 million to this year's budget. kr, so the suggestions are more than just fine words. These are the small, simple measures, which do not have the huge ambitions, but which have a very simple aim: to ensure that those who are in the situation that they grow up in a poor family get a little easier everyday life. It is the small, important steps that can alleviate the effects of poverty for some in the short term, while in the big community we continue to work along the long lines to get people out of work, to equip people for the labour market, to put in place a better integration policy and to improve the provision of psychiatry – just to mention something. But it takes time! And my question to the Council of State now was just what she would do in the short term. And then she answered again with long-term policy. That is precisely why these proposals that we are promoting today are so important. What you can do right away is to ensure that all children in Norway – regardless of the municipality in which they live – have a minimum of meaningful leisure time. I believe that the opposition's proposals for poverty measures that we are promoting today would have immediate and real consequences for the lives of vulnerable children and young people. It's a shame the government puts it down! And it's a shame that in the round of questions I got the answer I feared, from the Council of State, working to everyone's answer no. one. Yes, I agree. But it doesn't help those over 1,000 children who can't afford to go on vacation this summer, who are afraid not to be able to answer the question when they get back to school: what did you do this summer, then?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2033	Over 25 million unemployed experience the consequences of Europe's worst economic crisis in the post-war period. Contrasts are strong. Norway came out of the financial crisis with Europe’s lowest unemployment. We have good economic growth, high employment and low unemployment. Norway is lucky. We're rich in resources. But we've also done a lot right. We saved in good times, so we had something to use during the financial crisis. Now we're back well under the four-percent oil money line. But the crisis in Europe also affects us. The consideration of interest rates and exchange rates must be fundamental to fiscal policy in the future. A responsible economic policy is needed, where we follow the rules of action for the use of oil money. The business growth package is a contribution to the competitive sector. Fair economic distribution is important both because it is morally correct and because it is good economic policy. Over eight years in Oslo, I have been working for additional appropriations for health companies, a new health research law, a fair financial distribution between health regions, cancer screening, a change in car charges in a more environmentally friendly way and customs freedom for industrial products for several developing countries. Today, too, we are dealing with a good attitude. In a comment on the EEA funds, the Committee mentions the need for increased efforts by the space people. It is agreed that Kongshaug Music Schools will retain the grant for a number of years. What has the most important government done for eight years? The change that has brought the greatest positive change in most people's lives is the increased support for vaccines that reduce child mortality and save lives. Several sheep grow up, belief in the future improves, and new dreams become reality. Eradicating poverty, distributing justice and taking care of the environment is the most important thing we can do. I was born in Norway in an amazing family. Everybody's not as lucky. Politics is about them: to help more people get it as well as someone does.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2043	There is broad consensus throughout the Norwegian political environment that the organisation of the economy is crucial for the development of society and the welfare of the population. The normal thing is that the debate on the revised national budget is an adjustment to the adopted state budget, and that it is, in a sense, slipping through the mainstreaming process. Having heard the debate today, I believe that this debate does not fit into that tradition. The reason for that is, as I hear it, that it is now very uncertain what the opposition's views on what should now be the basis of the whole economic foundation, which has been widely agreed for decades. I hear the representatives of the opposition – including the prominent, including the Right-wing parliamentary leader – say that we are frightening with the economic policies of the citizens. We're not doing that, but we're highlighting something that's very special, that it's not possible to get right representatives to say clearly that they're also on the rule of action in a coalition with the Progress Party. Sanner doesn't say it, no one else says it. They keep it open, and that, of course, calls for attention in the economic environment. For is it really the case that an alternative government should pursue a fundamental alternative economic policy? I believe that during the hour or two that remain, the Stortinget and the population – before we go into a new choice – must be able to explain this. The representative, who is the Right parliamentary leader, said here earlier that this was just an expression of the Workers' Party's inability to renew. That's not true. It could be argued in the East and West. But why aren't they answering? No, it's because they know they can't answer that, and it creates an insecurity that there's every reason for us to point out. That's why we're doing it, we're not doing it because we're going to scare, but because this is really going to create a different basis for Norway's economic policy, and it's very scary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2056	Norwegian roads are among the most poorly maintained in Europe, and the large maintenance run means reduced road safety, more and more expensive damage to cars and reduced accessibility. State Road Administration's own report No. 75 from February 2012 demonstrates a maintenance seat towing of about 100 billion. kr. In view of the fact that there is now a greater need for means of maintenance than previously assumed, it is necessary to provide additional appropriations for revision. Unfortunately, the government does not grant additional funds to start collecting the maturity of the road network and thereby accepts that the road standard is getting worse and that operating and maintenance costs will have a significant increase in the coming years as well. I find it disappointing that the government does not see the benefit of maintaining expensive investments. There is a poor social economy, and there is poor public resource management. Failure to maintain properly existing road networks means that losses will escalate, investment needs will increase faster than necessary, uptime on the road network will decrease and road users will have to expect to remain in longer queues in the future. The Progress Party therefore proposes to increase the funding for operation and maintenance on the national road by 350 million. kr, and we also propose a total of 400 million. kr to start the collection of the maintenance seat draw on the county roads. This will provide better safety for road users, better accessibility, and it will benefit all those travelling on Norwegian roads. There have been some natural disasters in 2012 and 2013 that I want to highlight a little bit more. Many steps, breeds and floods have destroyed infrastructure for both the road and the network. I want to point to recent events on the E16 Bergen–Voss, where the tribal road was closed for eleven days, and where, after the opening again, a new breed went on a section that was racially secure earlier. The progress team wants to earmark 200 million. kr for racial protection, where E16 Bergen–Voss is prioritised. The money must be transferable to ensure that the money will be used. In May 2013, there was a flood disaster in the East that caused major destruction. In Pentecost 2011, there was a similar disaster, and in the election campaign Jens Stoltenberg went out and promised to pay the bill. It was a breach of promise. The government didn't pay the entire bill. The municipalities and county councils concerned had to cover significant parts of the costs themselves, and this is, of course, at the expense of other important social tasks of the municipality and the county. The progress party therefore wants a own earmarked money pot of 250 million. related to the destruction of land-based infrastructure caused by the flood disaster in May. I expect the Stortinget to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2071	Foreign and trade policies are very important for the design of Norway. We continue to experience that the inspiration of the Right Ideologists is drawn from the idea that Norway will become a part of the European Union, a Union in crisis far more than an economic crisis, and indeed a social crisis that is increasingly becoming a political crisis. In this situation, the Right Programme is for the next majority period: ‘As long as Norway is not a member, the Right will give priority to a more active European policy.’ So, Norway is going to be more like the European Union. This is the main reason why the Right Party is the main opponent of the forthcoming enlargement because the position is an overriding position with implications for all areas of society. It is a position to turn Norway from the Cohesion Norway where the Senterpartiet stands guard to an even more market Norway. It's very demanding to have a break-up on Cohesion Norway today. It is very difficult to achieve the promotion of jealous relations between decent people in the labour market, to gain tax-free coverage by ability, to gain support for the decentralisation of labour, power and capital, to increase respect and bet on the small units in a social and business life, to direct labour immigration to Norway and to recognise that the climate crisis requires the use of renewable carbon, trees and plants, and to dampen the use of non-renewable carbon from oil, gas and coal — that is, to gain access to cords such as photosynthesis and ecology. The main challenge of economic policy in the future is how we can ensure competitiveness in our manufacturing business, which is squeezed between two bubbles, squeezed between a real estate bubble and an oil and gas bubble. Indeed, the measures are to vent air into these bubbles, thus reducing profitability and promoting the profitability of mainland production. Wood processing and forestry are outstanding examples. Two measures are needed: there are profitability improvements without increasing the timber price of the factories; the key is to transfer carbon dioxide tax to pay the forest tax; and the ownership of the Norwegian head office is also needed. The government's action package is good, but more is required. Finally, the central part is the green part of the red-green government. The Government Strategy of the Centre Party is based on a strategic assessment of the best basis for our programme. The centrelot shall retain its green mark, the clover – the clover which has the nitrogen factory in the root. It is also a ground anchor to understand and promote measures to mitigate the climate crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2091	The good school gives all students opportunities. That's why the good teacher is so important. There are many challenges in Norwegian school, but unfortunately, the government is unresponsive to the most important challenge: how do Norwegian school provide enough qualified teachers? It is incomprehensible that the government fails to do the most important thing first, to bet on the teachers. Instead, this week the Minister of Knowledge has repeated SV's election vow about a free meal for all primary school students, at a price tag of at least 1.7 billion. kr per year. For comparison, the government spends 400 million. kr annually for continuing training of all teachers in the country. The SV proposal is nothing less than a provocation against Norwegian students, parents and teachers. Norwegian school deserves better than a knowledge minister who spends a lot of money on the least important tasks at school. On the right, it is striking that neither the largest government party has taken over the serious teaching shortage that threatens Norwegian school. If the SSB gets right, hundreds of thousands of students in 2020 can stand without qualified teachers. It's unacceptable. In the light of a threatening teaching shortage, the government's proposal for a standard of teacher's density is even more incomprehensible. Such a norm can never be anything but a mere paper determination, when the government does not at the same time come up with credible suggestions on how to avoid learning shortages, and how to recruit the large number of teachers to fill this norm. After eight years of red-green government, Right wants more new ideas and better solutions for Norwegian school. We must have higher ambitions and speed in implementing the necessary changes. The right has clear ambitions that the learning profession in Norway in 2030 will be so sought after that of the most good students from higher education. We want to upgrade teacher training, so that staff have up-to-date competence and good insight into school everyday life. We want to upgrade the continuing training capacity so that all Norwegian teachers can gain a higher level of competence in their teaching subjects. We want to upgrade the initial training for Norwegian students, for a good school start is the best starting point we can give our kids. We will develop new career paths for teachers, so that skilled teachers can continue to teach and not have to seek new challenges by leaving the classroom. That bill is to be taken by the State, for good, capable teachers, an important investment for the knowledge nation of Norway. Through all our alternative budgets in this period, the right has invested heavily in the school. We're going to keep prioritizing this when we get into government. I hope Norwegian voters have noticed that, and will notice. Good choice!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2112	The representative Aspaker criticises SV for being so important for school food, which is so important for learning, while shaking her head over that SV is the only party that wants more teachers – and that's what she calls ambitions for the Right. But what I'm going to talk about is the oil tax, which the government has changed, so that the tax on oil investments increases by 3 billion. kr, which is used to provide tax relief in the continental economy. This helps to dampen the two-part economy in Norway. Another effect is that it also contributes to the need for the oil industry to take greater risks with regard to its investments, which means that projects with marginal profitability can be jeopardized. The proposal contributes to lower cost pressures from the socket into the mainland economy. It will make the Norwegian economy stronger and more versatile, and SV is pleased with that proposal. SV and Left were the two biggest parties that became the most important for their climate policy when Climate Change elections in 2013, in which 76 organisations, including the Norwegian Church, are involved, recently launched their review of the parties' climate policy. The progress party came in last place, closely followed by the Right and then the Workers' Party. What decided on the location was the policy of the batches to reduce the emissions of the petroleum industry. Earlier this week, SSB researchers launched figures showing that oil cuts are effective climate policies. For each percentage of oil production, global CO2 emissions are reduced by 1 million tonnes, or equivalent, if 233 000 Norwegians halved their CO2 emissions. Norwegian oil is worse than tar sands, said Professor Knut Einar Rosendahl. The average emissions from Norwegian oil and gas production are below the international average, he pointed out that mainly due to the fact that the two largest gas fields are operated by pure force, from land. Field constructions that are not electrified will reduce climate emissions because the energy comes from highly polluting gas power plants. The SSB recently provided figures for Norway’s climate emissions in 2011. They show two major challenges: road traffic, where emissions are 30 pst. higher than in 1990, and continues to grow slightly, as well as oil and gas extraction, which has grown by a total of 76 pst, and is growing. The government has presented a national transport plan which, for the first time, distorts environmentally friendly transport with a potential for significant climate change. In the future, it will also be crucial if we are able to achieve a reduction from the petroleum industry, as SV will.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2133	The right will point out that the forest industry is an important industry for Norway. Many people have had a safe and good job in the industry, and the potential for value creation is great. Norwegian forest owners have long and good traditions for sustainable forest resource management. It's built up a large wooden capital, and the growth is as much as two and a half times what is harvested for industrial purposes. This is thus a renewable resource with a high potential for creating healthy and good activity. Right will point out that the forest industry is a complete and important processing chain, from root to advanced products sold in international markets, and last but not least, with long traditions in Norway. In addition, Norwegian forests catch up with a climate perspective. 50 pst. of the total emissions of Norway. Forests can carry us into a more climate-friendly future by absorbing greenhouse gases and delivering products based on a renewable resource. The government's own forecasts show that if the extraction and industrial exploitation of the resource is not increased, we are on the threshold that both growth and carbon capture will be lower than today, because the forest decays and rots on the roots. That would mean a lot of lost opportunities. On the right, it is noted that the situation now appears critical to the forest industry. Workplaces are no longer as safe. Norway’s competitiveness has deteriorated over time, and too little has been done to strengthen it. The government’s forest package, as presented in the revised national budget, can best be characterised as ‘too little, too late’ or as ‘Barkebille boogie’. I will briefly mention CEO Sven Ombudstvedt in Norske Skog, who stated on 25 April 2013: ‘Sergenous rules bottle us for 200 million a year’. He went on to say: «Norwegian Forest would be more competitive than its Swedish and Finnish competitors if politicians had given them the same framework conditions as competitors on the other side of the border.» The government has not lacked information on this alarming development in the competitiveness of traditional competitive jobs that have taken place in recent years. The right, forest industry and other actors have launched several new ideas and improved solutions that could strengthen the competitiveness of the industry. It's not until the industry has the knife on its throat that it's now becoming a reality. The government has shown that they are lacking in implementation. Finally, it is that the Right joins the government’s proposed actions, but significantly improves the commitment to a forest strategy through the following proposals: the Right will increase the funding for research and innovation, in particular the nutrient-oriented part through the BIA, but also the TaxFUNN. In our budgets, the right delivers increased TaxFUNN – we do not warn that there is an increase that might come. Starting depreciation by 10 pst. in balancing group d, it is inserted from 1 July 2013. We want to increase the overall turnover and the increase of 20 million. kr for monitoring/calculation of the resilience of the county road network, so that we have infrastructure suitable for the industry. Finally, we want to remove the diesel tax on biodiesel. Finally, the Right also promotes the importance of local ownership and private ownership for a vulnerable industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2156	It's very strange to listen to the Right who talks so much about the teacher, when we know that in their own budgets, the 600 teachers that SV got into and strengthened the school this year have been removed from their budgets. We're betting on the teacher, right-cutting positions. SV wants more and better teachers and a teacher standard. We're against Right privatisation, we're against grades in high school and several tests, because there's no research support for this being good. There is a lot of practice that shows that it is bad, and we don't have to go further than to Sweden, where the students have unfortunately got a much worse school after the right side has carried out their experiments there. Neither are parents, teachers, nor students who want to do this. Now the kids are doing better at school. Now we have to get on with it, and not start with such an experiment. Right will have a lot of privatisation. It will also have the Progress Party in welfare and care. It is at the heart of the question: is it the auxiliary caregiver who will receive a good and viable pension, or are there any shareholders who will get a good return? To cooperate with private non-profit organisations, we can do fine without dealing with tenders. That's right, it wants SV, but privatising is just about private companies getting the suction pipe into the common cash register. That money would rather be spent on the elderly and on pensions for those who do the job. So to poverty, yes, there's a lot that should have been done with poverty. I have criticized this government, I have criticized the previous one, and I am going to continue it as long as there are poor people in this country. But I get a little upset when parties that in their budgets take over 1 billion. kr from the poorest single-parent families with two and a half times the risk of suffering permanent poverty. kr back in this budgetary position. They're taking 1 billion. NOK and give back SEK 70 million. kr, and then they say that there is good poverty policy. The proposals put forward here are essentially municipal policy. The representative admitted Røe Isaksen from the Right in the debate earlier this week. SV has submitted the proposals to the local government in Tromsø, the right has voted them down. SV has submitted the proposals to the local government in Oslo, it remains to be seen whether the Right votes them down. It also remains to be seen whether the Right has intended to pursue good social poverty policies in the approximately 111 municipalities, which I think it is, they govern in this country. There is a long way to go, and there is a lack of responsibility under the Law of Social Services in Nav. There are few municipalities that take. There's a lot of poor kids should have, but when the parents of the poorest get cut in income by over 1 billion. kr, leads to more than 17 000 new poor children overnight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2169	That's about. 70,000 people today who have dementia. We know that in 2040 there could be a double of this, and we know something about what we can do. We know that day care is important for the individual who has been hit by dementia. We know that day care is important for the relatives. And we know that it's important to have a daily offer five days a week and not two–three, because it gives challenges for the other days. So we know that happiness is important for those who need it. When we had a consultation in the Health and Care Committee on 'Morning Day Care', one of the negroes, I would say, throughout the health care sector, that our biggest challenge in total is that we have to solve the dementia problem in terms of those who have this disease. That is why the Christian People's Party has, through the revised budget, as we are promoting it today, focused on research, by increasing the appropriations for dementia research. It's a start, but it's a start where we want to show a direction, because we want to be able to really give the big money within a few years to solve a big challenge for our society, for families and not least for the individual. But before we manage to research, we have to – now – make the good offer. Then a daily supply is crucial. It's important to have a good time for those who need it. It is important that employees in the health and care sector are given more competence. It is also important that the relatives receive through non-governmental organisations or other measures the support and assistance they need in a demanding situation. And we know that more and more young people are also being hit by dementia. It is then important to be able to have related measures for younger people than we have traditionally had in this area. So here we both have to think for the day tomorrow, and we have to think about research and development of good actions for a few years to come. And it has been suggested by the Christian People's Party through the setting we have delivered today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2178	Europe is in crisis. Here at home is the forest industry in crisis. This is serious. The forest industry employs about 25 000 people in Norway, representing 5.8 pst. of turnover in industry in Norway in 2010. At the same time, we have a renewable resource in the forest, where the potential is far from being exploited, either in business terms or in helping to meet our climate challenges. Of course, as a representative of Hedmark, I'm very concerned about what the forestry crisis will do to business and employment. There are many important jobs in the forest and in further processing, where one needs help out of this crisis, both in my county and in the country too. I am therefore very pleased that the government in the revised national budget has provided a package of measures for the forest sector, where three departments receive parts of 250 million. kr. This means money for Innovation Norway to the Wooded Innovation Programme for Timber Markets and Forest Roads and to better facilitate the transport of timber. In addition, Investinor will receive 500 million. kr extra as eartag for the forest and wood industries. I heard in the debate today some rustling about forest roads. Now I register that the Left is completely opposed to spending money on it. When I talk to representatives of the industry, better roads and infrastructure are what they highlight. This also applies to forest owners finding it profitable to extract timber in the situation in which the industry is located. Therefore, these discussed forest roads are also important. Many have tried to talk these measures down – the last representative of Bakke-Jensen, as we heard. I want to refer to what the industry itself says: ‘It gives cause for optimism when we know that there has never been such a large amount of research resources in new wood applications as it is just now. It will be an important task for us to follow these developments to see if this can provide opportunities for us." I also have another matter on my heart. The forest fins are one of five national minorities whose culture, through ratification to the Council of Europe Framework Convention, we have committed ourselves to care for. The forests have a population of 40 municipalities and seven counties – all the way to Buskerud. I am very pleased that the Norwegian Forest Finnish Museum in the revised national budget will receive 2 million. kr. That appropriation will enable them to move forward with the pre-project and planning of a new museum at the Finnetunet in Svollrya. This has the forest fins worked for a long time, and it is important that they now move on in their planning. They are a national minority who really need a place where they as a minority can maintain, make visible and disseminate their culture in a good way, so that future generations will have greater pride in view of their background.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2194	So far out in the debate, there's a lot of things you could want to deal with. I was actually going to talk about the forest and the forest industry, but that's what the representative Groetting talked about in an excellent way, so I think I have to talk about a little bit of other things. The rather prominent spectre that we have experienced on the blue-yellow-green side, not least during the major and quite significant debates of the last few days. It's natural that the position disagrees with the opposition, but it's more paradoxical how the opposition disagrees with it. I'm just going to give a few examples of some of the debates that I've been following lately. When, for example: concerns the research notification, the right-hander states itself completely. They do not even share overall strategic objectives, not the long-term plan, with their future partners. In the case of the Knowledge Promise: The Right Party and the Advance Party would like to have grades for 9-year-olds, while the Christian People's Party and the Left do not want it. The Christian People's Party wants a school that's more practical and takes the whole student seriously, while the Right only talks about the teachers. With regard to the national transport plan: the Progress Party spends twice as much money as all the others and creates considerable uncertainty about projects that are now partly financed by tolls – as they will eliminate all toll projects. The right will use OPS and send the bill to the next generation. In the case of agricultural production: the Right, the Advance Party and the Left will remove the negotiating institute. The Party of Progress and the Right will cut into already negotiated agreements. Future partner Christian People's Party believes they are the farmers' best friend and criticises the government, but does not say one negative word about agricultural policy to those with whom they intend to cooperate. So we know that these parties do not agree on the rule of action. Nor do they agree on how much or what is to be financed by the community or by the individual seas. They do not agree on what should be given priority or what should be given priority. These are just a few of the things that have been discussed in the hall in the last few days, and some simple considerations from me, but that's enough for more than me to be a little worried. The opposition wants to appear as agreed, but as said before, they're making a big number out of that they're agreeing on a path out to Fornebu. What about the road and the track in the districts? They want to appear as a new government that will only make small changes to the price that the government has, but when one looks at all the proposals that have been made during this four-year period, there will be not only slight changes in price, but big changes in a completely different direction. Just remember the 22 000 private school applications that were ready when we took over in 2005! – Perhaps unproblematic in densely populated areas, not unproblematic in the districts. The removal of customs protection for agriculture will not mean a slight change for a few farmers, but it will have major consequences – not just for farmers, but for the landscape, tourism and food industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2215	It sometimes surprises me that the Right says that they are going to talk about their own policies, when they use posts after posts to push down on the government – for example, where they argued in the debate that Norway is spending less on research than our neighbouring countries. To that there are two things to say. There has been a real increase in the research budget of 32 pst. since 2005. We have every reason to be proud of this. Norway is among the OECD countries with the highest publicly funded research per capita. Under the red-green government, the effort has increased from 0.8 pst. of GDP in 2005 to 0,92 pst. of GDP in 2013. We're on our way to achieving the goals we've set ourselves. The second is: what is the challenge is the research effort of industry. It's too low. This is because both efforts are really too low, but also because one in the statistics does not count with significant research efforts in important sectors, such as the petroleum sector. This is because we have many small and medium-sized enterprises in this country that have less opportunity for research intensity. In order to trigger more business research, incentives need to be implemented and done. It's set at 100 million. kr to SkattenFUNN in the revised state budget, to mention one measure. The size has just dealt with a research report. What's special about this is everything on the right is alone. There is a lack of cooperation on key research policy priorities. They questioned the importance of the long-term research plan. They have set their own objectives for research policy. They do not support cooperation and division of labour in the sector to create world-class higher education environments. The right is alone in all strategic goals and processes. So we don't know what's going to be future research policy with the Right in government. Alone, there is strong doubt as to what is the research policy of the right. This real doubt should be noted by the research communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2225	I take the floor to comment on a couple of right-hand attacks on SV and school policy. The representative, Arve Kambe, said that SV would not spend money on the teachers when it comes to continuing training, and he referred to the Right's suggestion. In the case of Norwegian schools, the actual situation is that the municipalities run primary schools and the county council operates secondary schools. The framework is defined for both pupils and teachers and school activities in Norway. It is proposed to cut the county councils by 500 million in the 2013 budget of the Right-wing Alternative Budget. kr – half a billion. It is a cut that will directly affect secondary school, not least as regards the possibilities of continuing education of teachers. It's clear that the first cuts are tightening up in that area. 500 million. SEK is of the order of 500 classes in secondary school. It's a significant cut. The money that the right has earmarked for the further training of teachers is a share of funding that the county authorities, among others, have earmarked. shall be financed. When the county councils have to cut in high school, they also have no money to spend on the earmarked funds. So what the right is really doing is weakening the offer for teachers and weakening the secondary school. So there's no connection in the criticism that the Right came up with, and what they actually do in the budget. So in several articles today, the Right has highlighted that this government has made Norway oil dependent. I have to ask when the Right has put forward proposals that help to reduce the rate of development of Norwegian oil extraction in the oil and gas sector. Right has never done that. On the contrary, the Right has been a driver to increase the rate of extraction. But not enough of that, in District Norway – in North Norway where I come from – we have earmarked money for business, for start-ups, for entrepreneurial activities and to support, among other things. the tourism industry, which is an important district industry. The food money has been cut in full in its alternative budget. They take away that money, and what they've come back with has been earmarked money for the delivery industry, for the industry that's just delivering to the oil sector. So they've taken money from what we're going to spend building a diverse business in Norway, and they've earmarked it for the oil-dependent industry. So also in that area, the Right has a double rhetoric -- they say one thing from the Great Britain pulpit and in the media, and they do something completely different in the real budgets. This has also been the Right characteristic. There's no correlation between what you say and what you do in your budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2238	16 years ago I came quite trembling and saved my life in the doors here. Today it is a bit with thanks and also a bit of resentment I should say goodbye to this hall. But fortunately, it's not a goodbye to politics, because then I don't think I had managed to stand here right now. I can get to look back in quite rich and demanding years. I've been given a case rapporteur for a big child protection message, I was working on the design of our international peace operations and our forces, I've been involved in negotiating private school agreements, and perhaps the biggest of all was that I was involved in ensuring a Christian value anchoring in the Constitution through the famous state-church agreement, which the president has also mentioned on many occasions in the past year. Revised national budget is an opportunity for a government and a big deal to go back with such reflections that I have made on my political life, and adjust the course mid-year. It's a trick, and there's no doubt that you should make some adjustments. The Christian People's Party wants adjustments in many more areas than the government has planned. Now we're going into a election, and it's time for our people to review the Storting. Then the Christian People's Party wants revisions to be made in several areas of policy. We want a revision of family policy. We want a revision of how we look at people – the value of man, human dignity. We want a revision of the voluntary and non-profit sector. We in the Christian People's Party are going to go out in the elections with a very clear message that you and yours are important and means a lot to the society that we're going to build together. This hall has such an infinite impact on human life. Many times we make good decisions, many times we agree on decisions, and many times we disagree. But now is the time for the people to make their revisions through the elections. I wish the new big deal of luck with the work. We're going to follow and maybe also stand in the lawn if they don't do what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2251	The President wishes us luck!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2254	If the voters put in a right party government at the election on 9 September, government employees with loans in the State Pension Fund will have to assume that the borrowing rate will increase sharply. A government employee with a housing loan of 1.5 million. SEK with a 20-year term in the State Pension Fund, in this case, risks additional annual expenditure of the order of NOK 22 800. The interest rate on housing in the State Pension Fund is 2,23 p.m. today. According to the DNB interest rate calculator, the market rate is 4.1 pst. for the same loan. The Progress Party and the Left are exemplary when they say that today's favourable loan terms in the Pension Fund are neither necessary nor fair. The right-hand parties have long wanted market interest rates, and since government employees do not have any particular income from the tax policies of the right-hand parties, a change in government will be a complete loss for them. An interest rate adjustment in the State Pension Fund will, of course, only be a parentheses in relation to the risks faced by employees at the moment the Progress Party gets on the steering wheel of Norwegian financial management. I understand that the leader of the Progress Party has already been looking for a long time after the Minister of Finance. The greater the reason for this, there is a warning against a more liberal economic policy with a strong increase in the use of money. This prescription has been tried before. Some of us still remember the Willoch government's release in the mid-1980s, when the credit fixations were lifted. It led us into a strange financial crisis, with collapse in the housing market and a strong increase in unemployment. However, by means of a solidarity agreement with the social partners, it took us ten years to regain the balance of the Norwegian economy. Yes, this is a scare image – an experienced scare image for many of us. We've seen how fast the Norwegian economy can take over. Today, we hear Siv Jensen talk about everything that goes wrong, and has gone wrong, in society for eight years – in the world's richest country, with Europe's highest employment and lowest unemployment. Siv Jensen will set a new course, away from the rule of action and limited use of money, for tax relief in the hundreds of billionaires class and more money for all good purposes. I repeat, this is really a scare image.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2265	First, I'll just briefly make the Borghild Tende aware that I was going to do, that is, give a brief justification for our proposal distributed in the Chamber today, to ratify the last part of the Children's Convention. It was a common suggestion from the entire opposition, and then many in the opposition chose to resign, because it was to be investigated by the government. Now it's determined by the government, so now there's no reason not to vote for a ratification. That is why we have chosen to present the proposal here. I would also like to inform you that the Left will vote in favour of the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which have been distributed in the Chamber, concerning the children of asylum. Then to the scare pictures. The government parties have decided that the strategy of this election is to frighten against a Right Party government, and to frighten by the 1980s. Just to that I can calm down – we in the Left, along with the Christian People's Party, go to elections to get a blue-green government. It is the most preferred government option among Norwegian citizens. Nor do I think Norwegian citizens are as stupid as the government parties claim to be. I think they're going to choose a blue-green government and not a dark-blue government. A blue-green government never has to deal with the important economic indicators in a society, they never customs with the use of oil money, no one has had to clean up after a blue-green government ever. On the other hand, many times we have been given the job of cleaning up after others. For the Left, standing on the rule of action is very important. For us, it's important to have a long-term economy. But we stand for the whole rule of action, not just the first sentences of the rule of action. We stand for a rule of action that reads all the sentences, that of spending the money you get from extra room for action from the oil sector, on investing in long-term things like transportation – that is, getting a well-functioning train system in Norway – and research, innovation and knowledge, which will create the ideas we're going to live on in the future. We see that we have a government that makes us more and more oil dependent, more and more dependent on the commodity price of oil, and I believe that a challenge to a government with such a large space of action is to invest in research, knowledge and all the things that are going to take us on and create a new business. That's what the Left is going for. We go to the elections to take the big environmental measures that allow us to create a business that is also rusted for the future, and that means that a slight fluctuation in the oil or gas price should not pull away the carpet below us. We're going to choose that we want changes within the environment and within knowledge, which allows us to have an alternative. Then it's like sometimes the red-green are very similar to the blue-blue. If you want a distinction, you have to make sure that the next government turns blue-green.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2279	Rehabilitation is essential for the quality of life of many people. It's about an opportunity to master everyday life and cope with your own strength. For society, rehabilitation is a good investment, but the most important value in rehabilitation is the ability it provides for each patient to recover or re-learn lost functions due to illness or injury. Therefore, rehabilitation is one of the most important healthcare services, but unfortunately an area that has been neglected. The trade unions and patient organisations, 45 in the figure, say that this is the ‘clearest lifting break’ from the red-green government. It is positive that the professional communities are drivers in the development of this offer, but we politicians must ensure that the area is really prioritised, and that Right will contribute to it. In its alternative budgets, the right has earmarked 400 to 500 million from 2007 until now. SEK for the rehabilitation field each year, for several treatment services, for quality development, for research and for the purchase of private services. Now, in the revision, we've increased by nearly 100 million. kr. We have been proposing a stepping-up plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation every year since 2007, and have received support from the other bourgeois parties, but have been repeatedly downgraded by the government parties. On the right, the changes in the funding mechanisms for outpatient physiotherapy voted against because it has had the consequences we feared, namely reduced capacity and longer waiting times. Together with the other opposition parties, the Right proposed a strong commitment to habilitation and rehabilitation in the handling of the Cooperation Reform, and in 2012 we promoted proposals for free rehabilitating options and improved quality and accessibility in the rehabilitation field. On the right, the programme has confirmed that the next major reform of health policy must come about in the area of rehabilitation, and we will ensure that it is implemented, in cooperation with the other political parties. Finally, this is my last post in Stortinget. I thank you after 16 years, and I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the good colleagues for their fruitful, constructive and good cooperation, for their friendship and for the community across the party boundaries. It's been a privilege to be part of this environment, and I look back on amazing years, demanding years and educational years. Now new health and culture tasks await. I wish all my good colleagues a splendid summer and good luck with the important work on building the country!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2290	Last night I was at the graduation of 10th grade at the Brumunddal high school. There were 140 young people who had passed an important milestone along the way. It reminds me that it is in our children that we see our own future, and it also reminds us that the journey of life is about you being good enough for yourself, and that you are a good person for others. Politics is about people's needs today, but it's also about people's needs in the future, about work, dignity, justice, about using their abilities. Millions of young people in Europe do not have that opportunity. For them, it's about broken hope, broken dreams and little hope, and it's about land that undermines its future production base. The generation contract is the most important glue in the well-being of our country, where we stand for each other, where we have different needs through the life cycle, but still present each other through the strong community, what gives people freedom and security. This generation contract is about not sending extra bills to the next generation. This is why the rule of action is slightly more than a 'home-rule' that someone writes in the setting today. It's a lifeline in the generation contract. Policies are short-sighted in nature in many respects, because they aim for the next elections. But the major challenges are long-term: the climate challenge and a sustainable economy. Many in the next generation do not yet have voting rights. They need a voice, and they need our voice. That's why we're not going to send extra calculations to that generation. That is why security is so important around big economic governance. The policy in this area will also provide clarity, but it is still unclear which rests after the debate today, if we do not get clarity during the rest of the debate. It's about developing and developing the workforce, giving people knowledge and competence, and it's about taking care of and developing the production base, which gives the individual and the community huge income. The labour force of today and the future is our main capital. To return to this school graduation: When junior asks me about how it went with the generation contract, I will answer that on our watch we kept the generation promise. We took care of the lifeline of the generation contract. And our guard will also continue after 9 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2305	This is where the big word passes, and the council is the one that uses the very greatest words. I have a 10th grade daughter. I'm not going to use the big words about the ending I was at, but I understand that it was a big event for the Council of State. The representative of Kolberg, who is not in the room now, feels insecure – he is very, very frightened. He is not quite able to explain what he is frightened of, but he is hesitant that he is frightened of all those who do not keep the rule of action. One can imagine: what was involved in the policy before it was the rule of action? Then you had to think for yourself, then given. Then you thought, and you had to borrow money, and you spent a little too much money or a little less money. You had to make it within the frame. But the rule of action – what should I say? Kolberg has become the Stalinist of the rule of action. He is so busy keeping the rule of action that he hardly knows what it contains. And what does it actually contain? Well, you have to use approx. – “comme ci comme ça” – money, in year 123 billion. kr, i.e. 3.2 pst. of the yield. It could have been 3.4, 3.7 – it would also have been within the rule of action. But not enough: you spend money below and above the line, so in total you spend more than 4 pst. And you actually use the principal, or the capital itself, of the State pension fund, if you're honest about what the rule of action is about. In Kolberg's world, all money counts equally. If you use 123 billion. DKK on social security or spends 123 billion. infrastructural matters, do not play a role in the world of the rules of action and of Kolberg. I wonder what's going on with his own private finances. Is it true that if he invests in a car, it doesn't matter whether he buys a car or candy for the kids, that's exactly the same thing – the money counts exactly the same? But they don't. In the real world, we know that investment is more important than consumption. Consumption disappears, while investment is investment in the future and investment in ‘young people’, which is so popular to say. Clearly, it's important to invest for the future, so that we create future growth. The Norwegian state budget is over 1 000 billion. kr. That's $200,000 per Norwegian. It's twice as much as in Sweden, and the Danes use 70 pst. We have the absolute largest state budget per capita in the whole of the Nordic region. Nevertheless, there are shortcomings in many sectors. It is clear that we are spending too much on operating the budget and on the consumption side of the Norwegian government budget. It's investments we're going to make for the future – investments in our children, investments in the son of Sigbjørn Johnsen and investments in my daughter. We're going to do that. We're going to build the country and create new growth. Then we actually have to distinguish consumption from investment, so that we get that power out. Be honest here in the hall! Be honest with yourself and say, Do we follow the rule of action? What is the rule of action? Aren't we going to create growth? Or is it just a line? And then we put two lines below that answer. That's not how it is. And frankly, we've got the answer now. We don't have to ask any more questions about the rule of action. Talk about economic policy and the content of politics instead of talking about just one rule!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2324	I can't do that: if it were to be a blue-blue multiple, it would be right to be high temperature about the control base. I would like to reject Mrs Solberg's criticism of the Central Party when it applies to the different EU directives. I think she said the Central Party's councils were passive. That's wrong. So I was almost blamed by Solvik-Olsen for not having read all of their comments. It's not always I do, but whoever's dealing with the space people, I've read, and I don't think there's any stronger note that says. So they couldn't be on a common comment from all the other parties, but they're saying, ‘The situation of the space people in Central and Eastern Europe has remained virtually unchanged for decades. The population has a low level of school and professional participation and their situation has not changed significantly despite increasing assistance through EEA funds’. – Not particularly encouraging that they could not participate in any action. In my article I referred to several fields where there is total dissatisfaction in the so-called government option. I would say that today's debate has confirmed this inequality. So it's also the way for me that this is my last debate. I sat here and thought: I got into the Stortinget in 1993. At that time, it was equipped to fight for the European Union. Then there was no way how crazy everything was going to go for our country. The Norwegian people nevertheless said no to membership. Today, we're not going to move. We must address the greatest crisis in Europe. We're going to take our relationship rules in relation to it. But the slogan ‘government, environment and solidarity’ stands. A society of small differences is a good society. We still need a government to raise Cohesion Norway in front of Meir-Marknads-Noreg.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2342	First of all, this isn't my last post in the hall. It's good to get it into the Minutes, if there's any doubt about it! In the Municipal and Administrative Committee, we have many debates on the relationship of power and responsibility between state and county councils and municipalities. There are often debates of the type: Should we have more state and smaller municipality, or should we have smaller state and more municipality. I think, unfortunately, that the debate should be focused on the fact that we can get a development in which we get both a smaller state and a smaller municipality. This is due to the fact that a large number of municipalities have prepared to go from a situation where they are engaged in the self-production of services to being more of an order for services. This is not least problematic local democracy. What does it help a municipality to gain more power, authority and responsibility from the state, if one takes all of this and by ordering it out to private? It is difficult enough for a local politician to conduct good political governance of self-activity. However, if local political governance is to be primarily linked to the design of tender documents, to the choice of a supplier, and then for 20–30–40–50 years to read reports from the same supplier, this will significantly weaken local democracy, both political democracy and the democracy we have in Norway in the field of working life. The line of the right-wing parties in the state-municipal debate is therefore both democratic and political to weaken both our main levels of government. It's the market that's the winner. The emerging order-executive bureaucracy is the winner of power, and the democratic institutions are the losers. We discussed this yesterday in the processing of the municipal bill, and we discussed it indirectly in connection with the housing bill. In the case of the housing message, not least the right hand parts are hot figures for the owner line. It's ownership that really makes you do good management. But when we go to the municipal debate, it's all of a sudden the rental line that's the great ideal. A minimum of one shall be owned and one shall purchase services and rent as much as possible. Here one must be the good orderer, but one must not own his service. One shall hire, and one shall purchase his service. This accused the Right Advance Party of yesterday, and I was right. But then I started thinking about it, and no, this is not the correct criticism of the Progress Party. Because they will go even further in eradicating the municipality as a level of government. It was very well confirmed in the line change yesterday. Then it is no longer the local politician who is to rule over the service. No, this should be a dialogue between the user and the state. The user comes with a need, it is notified to the state and then pays the state. It is the state that will have to have more money in the future if the Progress Party decides – not the local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2358	Let me first put the representative Tybring-Gjedde a visit, which with that sound level was impossible to avoid. He said in his post: ‘Kolberg has become the Stalinist of the Code of Action.’ It would have been interesting to get a clarification from Tybring-Gjedde on whether he believes that this statement is also representative of his potential partners in a government constellation on the civil side. As far as we know, and as we have heard repeatedly in speeches during this debate, both the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left are followers of the rule of action, while Tybring-Gjedde reveals to all the world how great it is. I would like to hear Tybring-Gjedde cancel or confirm whether he believes this statement and that description is also representative of e.g. Erna Solberg and Jan Tore Sanner. On aid topical.no on 27 August 2009, we read that the depositor of Right Peter Skovholt Gitmark said: ‘We do not want to maintain the link between one per cent of gross national income and the aid budget. We're more concerned with making sure that what we're doing actually works than focusing on a certain level." This remains the official position of the Right. In the batch programme, they will not undertake to maintain 1 pst. of GNI to the poorest in the world. The right will also follow up here today in the examination of the revised national budget, where they once again tickle the appropriations for assistance. By doing this to the right, along with the Progress Party that will cut 21.7 pst. of everything we spend on both aid and foreign policy, we see a dangerous strategy, in a world where the distinctions between foreign policy and domestic policy are actually erased. There are considerable differences in key areas of foreign policy. Last week, Foreign Minister Barth Eide received criticism to facilitate talks in Afghanistan that include the Taliban. In the past, the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have also made it clear that they will follow the EU's terrorist list. That list includes organisations such as the Farc guerrillas, the Tamil Tigrens and Hamas. There are all organisations with which Norway negotiates or has negotiated peace because the parties to the conflicts want Norway to contribute to a peaceful solution. A blue-blue government would never take the initiative of the Convention against Class Weapons. A blue-blue government would never make decent work a major feature of foreign policy and tripled support for the ILO. A blue-blue government would never take the fight against conservative family values: the restriction of the right to abortion and the restriction of women's rights. It would hardly take the initiative to lift the work of a world free of nuclear weapons, and then never provided 1 pst. of GDP for aid. There are major differences in foreign policy. That is also what the autumn elections are about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2381	I found in many ways that this debate has developed into a traditional debate. Maybe there's a little bit more concern than otherwise. It's probably because it's an election year. The concerns have come from the red-green, and of course the rule of action and the Ministry of Finance. The Minister of Finance stated that the rule of action is no longer a rule that is chiseled in stone – it is also a lifeline. The distinction goes, according to the red-greens, between those who follow the rule of action and the Ministry of Finance, and the irresponsible, on the other hand – they almost lost their way. When the SSB disagrees with the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance, they are also irresponsible. The rule of action and the Ministry of Finance have almost become a religion for the red-green ones, I feel. That's why I thought that one of them would have a truvend recognition and would present an oath when new clusters from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party came, which is about the rule of action and the Ministry of Finance. I therefore have a draft of such a trust recognition, which not the Progress Party has written, but Kjetil B. Alstadheim. I'm reading it, but this trust recognition is not something that the Progress Party joins, but it's a proposal for the red-green parties: "I believe in the Ministry of Finance, the guardians of the Almighty Heaven and Earth. I believe in the rule of action, the son-in-law of the Finance Department, our master, who was caught by Jens Stoltenberg and Øystein Olsen Born by Karl Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen Pint and stretched under Per-Kristian Foss Surrounded by Kristin Halvorsen Practised by Sigbjørn Johnsen Sitter at the right hand of the Minister of Finance Shall judge from there responsible and irresponsible I believe in the State pension fund – abroad On four percent expected real returns On structural, oil-corrected budget deficits On the Treasury forecasts On income policy cooperation At the Holy Norwegian model The condemnation of the surrenders Keynes resurrection and the eternal inflation target Mammon’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2434	What the representative Tybring-Gjedde said and Hagesetter now says, speaks in and for themselves, but it really does not represent a problem for me. Except that we've said how very concerned we are that this way of thinking and arguing might be to guide parts of a government coalition. It's a serious matter. The person who should be concerned, who is not being attacked here, but who sits still, is the representative, Sanner. He's the one with this problem. It's the Right who's sitting with this problem. The Norwegian Labour Party has never said in this debate or in previous debates, absolutely not, that the Right has not been in charge of the rule of action. They've been doing that for years. It has been the basis of economic policy and the organisation of Norwegian economic policies over several decades. What is the big and serious and that is now actually taken up again, not by us, but in these two posts I've referred to, is the fundamental doubt that they themselves create. And it's not too much to ask that Erna Solberg now get out of his office and into the room and say what she thinks about these posts, which is a strong emphasis on what we've been saying all day, namely that the Progress Party is not to be trusted in terms of the rule of action. It was also confirmed by Siv Jensen's posts and what she said yesterday. That's okay. But this is thus underlined in the harpsichord of this pulpit, the last by the representative Hagesetter. As I said, why does the Progress Party believe that the Right does not defend them? What are they thinking about that? The representative, Siv Jensen, should also get out of his office and into the hall. - There she is. Then she has all the opportunity to actually put the matter in place. She has two possibilities: either to say that the last two posts we put a line over, or to say that they're right, and then we know that. That's what's at the root of the whole situation, and that's why we've had this debate all day. It's not an attempt to scare, it's not an expression that the Norwegian Labour Party does not have an expansive thinking about economic policy, but it's an indication of a very serious situation that we are now going into if we were to have an alternative government. And it's legitimate for the position to underline this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2447	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2450	The Stalinist of the rule of action had just said the word, and I hold fast to it. I do not want to characterise Jan Tore Sanner or Erna Solberg in the same way, simply because they have understood that the rule of action has several elements, namely what the rule of action should contain – that is, the distinction between what the rule of action and the 4 pst. must be. In addition, it is the case with the representative Kolberg that he does not understand that the government itself does not comply with the rule of action. So he's a rhetorical Stalinist. But he's not a Stalinist in terms of the content of the rule itself – and that doesn't help being a rule. 3.2 pst. is not 4 pst. It's also under the line-money and over the line-money, which is counted both several times and unnecessarily often. I will read what the code of action of the Progress Party is – very quickly: An action rule defines different effects on the Norwegian economy over time and must distinguish between current expenditure and investment. We're going to have an upper limit on annual growth in public consumption limited by the growth of the Norwegian economy. I can't go any further, but the whole point is to distinguish consumption from investment. That makes sense, and then you can think for yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2461	In important areas, there is considerable uncertainty about what the Right and the Advance Party really think. It's about climate – one party denies the climate noise, and the other says they believe it. This is about oil dependence – they warn us against becoming too oil addicts, while both parties ‘cool’ and make us more and more oil dependent by being totally uncritical of any oil extraction. This applies to area by area. Then it's the use of money. I don't have to come back to it, but it's all about everything from the most eleven-ville use of money to say that we're going to tighten in. But you can't get both of them at the same time. That is this clarification we are asking for today. In one area, they are frighteningly united, and those changes they want are perhaps some of the most important things in Norway in terms of the distribution of money and power, namely what is happening in the labour market. There, these parties agree to remove the main measures against social dumping. What we know, we're reading the statistics, is that there are even some people in Norway who have wage levels that are so low that if you have a young person or two, you're below the poverty line. It's in this labour market that these parties will remove the rules to ensure that people at least get the pay they're going to have, which is to ensure that we don't get a working life where it's possible to underpay people very much and have an unsafe working life. They want a labour market where there should be no rules for this. Then we know that it's going to explode even more than it does today. Main rules wish to remove the Progress Party, Left and Right. I see that the representative Höie shakes his head, but he is wrong, because I have the list. These are the most important measures they intend to remove, such as: protects the temporary workers. In the past, the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Left were honest when they mentioned these measures. They said, "We're against them because they're preventing competition for pay." That's at least to say it right out, because that's what it's all about. It's about people who are struggling in the labour market having to subdue themselves on wages to get a job, in competition with the spread of work immigrants who are, of course, desperate to get a job, and who take anything, poorly paid. It's going to tear away the most important basis for the distribution of money in this country, and also of power, because it's tearing away the basis of the trade movement, which has made ordinary people in this country have also had an influence on political decisions that have been of benefit to most people in this country. Yeah, I'm worried. SV believes that we need to protect Norwegian pay and working conditions better because it is so very important for well-being – for the help nurse, for the cleaner, for the bus driver and for the construction worker, and for all those who work in the trade and office and who have quite common jobs. That's who we're for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2474	I think the previous articles illustrate that there has been a lot of mistakes in today's economic policy. So despite the fact that we have record good factors outside the Norwegian economy, in terms of high oil prices and low interest rates, fewer people today are able to live on their own income. There are several people who need housing support, there are several students who need help from the state. It should be the opposite. I fully agree with the perspective of generation, which the Minister of Finance addresses. But what the government is doing is they're looking blind on the oil fund. It's not the oil fund that represents the generational perspective, it's our workforce. Our labour force represents 81 pst. of our common wealth. The oil fund is 4 pst. The Progress Party will have an action rule that looks at how to increase the growth of the 81 pst. of our wealth, while the government has doubts about that part of the policy to maximise the value of 4 pst. of our wealth. For me, it makes sense to see how you can increase what's larger, not what's smaller. What the red-greens call an economic experiment is that the Progress Party will invest more in socio-economic profitable assets, that we will do more to make the public sector more efficient, and that we will do more to stimulate employment and economic development. It's not an economic experiment, it's common sense to think like that. And this is the agreement of the Statistical Central Bureau. They have themselves assessed that it will increase GDP, lower inflation and lower interest rates. I love to discuss economic policy with the red-green, but they have to deal with what the Progress Party proposes, not a vulgar version. How much oil money does the Advance Party spend? In our alternative budget, we are within the framework of the rule of action. We're within the 4 pst rule. It doesn't seem like any red-green politicians have brought it with them. But what we're saying is that even though we're within 4 pst, it makes sense to change the rule of action to distinguish consumption from investment, and to make sure that we invest more in future value creation and less in over-the-counter measures that have short-term utility. I'm still waiting to hear red-green politicians say: exactly how much will you spend in the next four years? Then I ask, how much does the Soria Moria II statement cost to implement? The Ministry of Finance is unable to give a price tag on it. It is then unreasonable to demand such answers from the opposition – when one does not know for himself what his own policy will cost. The current situation in the Norwegian economy is good, but it is due to many reasons beyond our control, such as a record high oil price that has led to record high oil investments and record low interest rates. What is worrying is that, at the same time, there is a halve of mainland investment and record debt in the local and private sectors, an increase in the number of disabled people, and that labour immigration has been explosive, with new, large commitments for the welfare state. These are the factors that might turn out bad on the day that the external factors no longer stand on our side. On the day oil prices and oil investments go down, this government has become bad in relation to the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2491	I don't need to continue a clip, clip-debate, which we're obviously in right now. I would like to give an explanation of vote relating to the proposal from the Left. We have great sympathy for that proposal. The relationship is that the legal investigation into the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child came a week ago, I think, and is now at the hearing. On our side, we want to wait for the hearing and what recommendation comes after it from the government. That doesn't mean we don't agree that it's a goal to ratify this supplementary protocol as well. That was the explanation of vote. I have to say that it was kind of nice to hear the representative Hagesetter and the creed he referred to. One can at least determine that if he has no other ideas about what he wants to use life for, I see some alternative career options. It's quite obvious!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2500	This has evolved into a very interesting, concluding debate on one of the themes that I think will shape the election campaign until September. The reason for that is not that there's any electoral considerations behind it, it's despite all the serious things we're talking about here. We talk about who – which people and which parties – are best able to lead the country and control economic policy over the next four years. Then it is not immaterial to discuss and get to grips with where the real dividing lines go, and who should sit in the office together and negotiate from day to day on the most serious economic issues affecting the country. I know this isn't comfortable for Sanner and Solberg and the people of the Right, but what we've achieved is that we've refocused on how extremely different the two largest parties that say they're going to form government together, is that we've come to see what they really mean in the Progress Party. We have repeatedly heard – a little more eloquently said by Solvik-Olsen, drooling, I would say, by the representative Tybring-Gjedde and even more so by the representative Hageseter – a frame-salt ridicule of, and I would say a relatively extreme rhetoric about, the whole core wall of economic policy. It is – once again – interesting to ask the representatives of the Progress Party whether it is such that this criticism – for Sanner, who comes right after me, is likely to say that he stands by what he has previously said about the rule of action, and the Right is like the guarantor of economic policy – and the characteristic that Kolberg got, also applies to their future partners? It is so serious that I think we should be able to get a proper answer. Much could have been said about part of the content of the discussions in this debate. Not least, it would have been interesting to go more into the report as, among other things, Mr Solvik-Olsen referred to where the SSB allegedly endorsed the economic policy of the Progress Party. That's a lot to say about. Many of the latest reports show, for example: the SSB warns against increased use of oil money and against over-resources in a particular area — for example: road and rail – in a short time. It can put pressure on interest, wages and anything else. But I get to come back to that, either later today or in another forum.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2511	I believe that the word that has been most echoed by the red-green politicians in this debate – with the exception of the ‘rule of action’ – is ‘anxiety’. There has been no concern for those addicts who do not receive treatment, there has not been a concern for mentally ill people who do not get the help they need, there has been no concern for entrepreneurs and others who are struggling because of red-green requirements and red-green taxes. No, there is a concern about what might happen if others, other than the Workers' Party, are to govern Norway. I just record that that concern is not shared by the voters, because the voters clearly say that you have greater confidence in a government led by Erna Solberg, with the Right, than in a government led by Jens Stoltenberg and the Red-Greens. This concern is also not shared by the analysts and economists who, a few days ago at the latest, said that with the Right in Government, it is certain that a responsible economic policy will be pursued. Everyone knows – including Torgeir Mikalsen, in the innermost, innermost, I think – that in a government with the Right, we keep order in the Norwegian economy. The rule of action is and has been a good anchor for economic policy, but the rule of action involves much more than just a discussion of how much money is to be spent. It's also about how to use the money. The Labour Party should be more concerned that over eight years the Red-Green Government has broken the foundation of the rule of action, namely that the new oil crowns should be invested in knowledge, infrastructure and growth-enhancing tax reliefs. At that point, the bourgeois parties agree. And then I have to add: you keep talking about a blue-blue government. The right is in favour of broad civil cooperation which includes the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party. If the Red-Greens had had ambitions to also government beyond 9 September, perhaps more time should be spent discussing how to relieve the burdens on small and medium-sized enterprises and Norwegian jobs than just walking around and worrying about what will happen if the Workers' Party does not control Norway. Finally, to Karin Andersen, who was concerned about labour market policy. She should listen to the LO leader. The leader of the LO has said that the Right conducts a responsible labour market policy. I think that was well said.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2526	The representative Martin Kolberg has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2530	The representative Siv Jensen was in the room, but she withdrew – she went out again – the representative Solberg has heard this, but she did not come in and would not participate in the change of words, the representative Syversen had the chance to say something about the current debate, but found reason to spend time saying that Hagesetter might have a career in religious Norway, and Sanner went up to the pulpit and talked about everything else than what we were asking about. It's been like this all along. This is not a trivial matter, it is a question of the foundation of economic policy. What we can say at the end of this debate is that there is a great deal of disagreement between the Progress Party and the Right. Right does not defend the Advance Party – they do not take a stand. That is why the uncertainty is centered through this political debate. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2537	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2540	Uncertainty is great, and it is great for those who depend on our well-being. The representative Tybring-Gjedde was just up here and said that there are too many well-being goods in this country, so we had to cut them, because it was too expensive. Then we want to know which. I read the Daily Newspaper a few days ago, and it said that the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, told them to get rid of sick leave in Norway and save 35-40 billion. kr. If it's with these accounting skills that you're going to rule Norway in the future, we have reason to be startled, because we don't spend 35-40 billion. So I'm going to spend 33 billion dollars. kr on sick leave. So here they're going to save more than we actually use, and no one's going to be sick. There's been a little bit of harelation with other things here before. I guess I could call this a cure by alternative state budget and creative bookkeeping. I had expected more of the Right – that they had been serious in these matters and answered properly on how calculations can govern the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2553	It is interesting to experience the inner life of the Workers' Party, where the representative Kolberg expects that when he gives a message, everyone – even those outside his party – should live up to it. I'm glad I'm in a democratic party where people have their own opinions and do what they want. The Progress Party has a fiscal spokesman, a financial fraction, and we are the ones holding the debate. What we're saying here is also on behalf of Siv Jensen. It is unfortunately little substance in what we get here from the Workers' Party. It reminds me a little of when Councillor Schjøtt-Pedersen was Minister of Finance. Then, in 2002, DnB economist Furunes recommended that we increase the use of oil by 3 billion. kr in the year of the next 10 years. It was said that Minister of Finance Schjøtt-Pedersen would create turbulence in the Norwegian economy – just as we have heard now. The fasitator was that when the Workers' Party crashed in 2010, the oil money consumption was increased by 85 billion. kr – i.e. three times more than what Schjött-Pedersen said would create apocalypse. That is why I take today's warning from the red-greens with very great calm, because it has no substance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2562	The next speaker is the representative, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, who has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. At this stage of the debate, it is a long speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2565	Although it is very tempting to repeat to some of Laila Gustavsen's more creative and quite unsubstantiated statements, that's not what I spoke for. I took the floor to give a little explanation of vote. That is for proposal No. 47 from the Left, which is going to be supported by the Right, where the government is asked to present ‘a case on ratification of the Additional Protocol on the Law of Individual Appeals to the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child’. This is based on a joint proposal from the four bourgeois parties a little earlier. The investigation we then asked about the benefits and disadvantages of ratifying the complaint mechanism has now come. It was handed over to U.D. on June 3rd this year. It's a pretty strong publication. The natural follow-up then will be that the government will present a case to the Storting for consent to the ratification of this complaint mechanism, where these benefits, disadvantages and assessments will also be made visible to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2574	The president realized that the warning from the Christian People's Party was that they did not support the proposal, and that there was also no notified support from other parties. Is that right? If not, the representatives will have to sign and come back to it. But the president is just trying to get the order for voting. That's how it's perceived, until we might get another message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2579	I notice that right-wing representatives have taken the discussion as if they have already won the election, distributed state council posts and settled down two months before the election, also into the main hall – and instead of answering concrete questions, you show that polls show you, and polls show that. With all due respect – we’re going to have an intensive campaign for a while ahead, and that’s right, and it’s good to get these differences out and discuss them openly. This is an excellent occasion in that way. What is my assessment, as it now sounds, is that the right parties, the Right and the Advance Party, are trying to ride two horses. With all due respect, I hear there's someone still talking about a four-party government, or maybe four-party government on the civil side. But I think we can establish – at least if you're going to use polls and the kind of thing that leads – that it's not a very topical issue. What is the alternative to the present government, led by Jens Stoltenberg, is a government with the Right Party and the Advance Party. We hear the frame of criticism from the Progress Party, ridicule the basis of economic policy from a number of representatives, while representatives from the Right are trying to calm down the muddles, not answer the questions, lean back and say everything is going to be so very good, we have control. But it's not that if you stick one arm into the oven and another one into the refrigerator, the compromise is that it's going to be a very nice place to be. If I had been a party representative, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, or someone who has strong opinions in the Progress Party, I would have interpreted what Jan Tore Sanner says, as very alarming. What he's really saying is that we can discuss what we're going to spend the money on, but we're the ones who control how much oil money is going to be spent. It means a massive cancellation of many of the very expensive election vows that all the party representatives around the country are now flying around and promising. We can just start with that they promised 100 billion. kr in lower taxes and taxes over the next four years – 25 bn. kr a year – and then we add the promises of the transfers from the transport debate earlier this week. And then you could add 40, maybe 50 billion. Add kr. If you put it on top of today's oil money usage, a proper way to control the country, it won't work. Jan Tore Sanner knows that. So what he's really trying to say in a nice way, to Tybring-Gjedde, Siv Jensen, Solvik-Olsen, is: Sorry, you can forget those election vows. But what we're left with is vaguely misconception from the very Right; they won't say clearly from what will really be the consequences. And it's serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2592	The representative Hans Olav Syversen gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2595	I thought it was interesting that Torgeir Micaelsen now suddenly gave the polls the basis for what it would look like after the election. Then it looks dark to those who sit now, to say it carefully. But there may well be some other opinion polls you use when you debate. So to proposal No. 47. In the name of good non-socialist cooperation, we can vote in favour of the proposal, but then with the assumption that the government will hold a hearing before they bring the matter before the Stortinget. With that assumption, we don't have a problem voting for it. I guess I'd really think the whole hall would agree. But I'm sure the Foreign Minister can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2602	The representative Jan Tore Sanner gets the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2606	In the past, it was the opposition who asked questions, and the government parties who were going to answer them. I record that the Workers' Party in particular is now starting to prepare for new roles. The questions asked have been answered, and the answer is that a government with the Right keeps order in the Norwegian economy – sentence finals. That's it. We did so last time we sat in the government – then we made budgetary settlements with the Progress Party – and that would certainly be the case with a new possible bourgeois government: the right keeps order in the Norwegian economy. So Karin Andersen, who's still worried about people who depend on well-being. If the representative is concerned, SV may vote in favour of the proposals promoted by the bourgeois parties in this position, which raise poor children, and which raise weak patient groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2615	It concerns proposal No. 47, from the Left, on the ‘ratification of the Additional Protocol on the right of appeal for the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child’, which has been distributed in the Chamber. With the same assumptions as the Christian People's Party has made, I would recommend that the Red-Green parties – i.e. the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre – also vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2620	The President then perceives that there was a recommendation that was representative of three parties – it will be noted. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 20 and 21.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2637	This is the position of the Foreign and Defence Committee. It is a unanimous stance, and it is – only briefly – a change to the WTO Public Procurement Agreement and the provision of an effective multilateral framework for public procurement. Public acquisitions are already part of the EEA Agreement. That's why it's also important that we mention this one right over here. The goal has been to improve and simplify the text of the agreement itself, and we have made it more user-friendly. There is now a framework for greater transparency, predictability and procedural rules. The agreement has now also been extended as regards the coverage areas. It is also important to note that there have now been stronger formulations on corruption in the WTO, and that is, of course, joyous. Since this additional protocol – which is an amendment to the GPA agreement – is considered to be of particular importance, it is necessary to have the consent of the Storting for approval, necessary under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. It is with pleasure I have the last day of my period and my stay here in Stortinget, through 20 years, can present a unanimous setting for Stortinget. It's a great pleasure for me to do. I thank everyone for this 20-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2654	The next speaker is the representative, Ine M. Eriksen Soreide, who has a speaking time of up to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2657	Of course, I intend to take full advantage of that. This is not really to take the word for the vote itself – there the committee is unanimous. But I think it's a good opportunity to say to the Nordtun representative, on behalf of the committee – which I would like to thank for a good and unanimous attitude – that I would like to thank him for a strong commitment to this matter and in all other matters we have worked closely together in four years. It was particularly nice that it was the representative Nordtun who got the pleasure and honour to present the last case on the last day of the last year of this session. Thank you from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2666	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2672	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map. There is already a vote on case No. 1-19.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e2679	A total of 47 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 3-9, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and on behalf of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 11-39, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals Nos. 40 to 43, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 44 and 46, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 45 and 47, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1–45 has been included in the vote, while proposals Nos. 46 and 47 are distributed in the seats of representatives. There is a vote on proposal No. 45, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2013 is amended as follows: 20Statsminister’s office1Drivingexpenditure transferred 000 000 000 000 from NOK 91 450000 to NOK 94 450 00021State council1Operatingexpenditure increased by 4 000 000 from NOK 147 800000 to NOK 151 800 00043The Ombudsman of the Council of Ministers for Administrative Affairs, increased by 4 510 000 from NOK 54 350 000 to NOK 58 860 00061Highlighting1Driving expenditure, increased by 1 329 000 from NOK 85 084 000 to NOK 34 260 000100Expenditure expenditure, reduced by 1 450 000 from DKK 1 820 686 000 to NOK 1 819 236 00071Driving grants, increased by 10 000 000 from NOK 24 260 000 to NOK 34 2 660 000 from the total from the development of society, democracy and human rights, can be transferred, reduced by 700 000 from NOK 58 000 to NOK 28 000 from NOK 28 000 to NOK 10 000from NOK 10 000 to NOK 10 000 from EUR from from EUR 24 6 6 6 60 000 from NOK 1000 to NOK [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] 441 item 1, increased by 67 450 000 from DKK 10 455 236 000 to NOK 10 522 686 00021Special operating expenditure, increased by 5 200 000 from NOK 205 170 000 to NOK 210 370 00070Additional expenditure, increased by 10 000 000 from NOK 26 641 000 to NOK 36 641 000441Oslo police district1Operating expenditure, can be used under Chapter. 400000from 2 000 000from 2 000 000from 2 000 000from 3 000 000from 3 000 000from 2 075 6 6 000 442from operational expenditure from 2 500 000from 5 48 688 000 to NOK 551 188 000445from the higher public service operating expenditure from 2 100 000 from NOK 150 130 000 to NOK 152 23 000 451 from the directorate of social security and care costs70from private donations, increased from 3 4 30 000 from NOK 5 56 000 to NOK 3 99 1 00045 from the operating service1from 2 000 from NOK 8 64 143 000 to NOK 8 66 143 00045from the increased from the end of the year, from the end of the year to the end of the year, from the end of the year to the end of the year, from the end of the year to the end of the year, from the end of the year to the end of the year, from the end of the year to the end of the year, from the end of the year to the end of the year, from the end of the year from the end of the year to the end of the end of the year to the end of the end of the year to the end of the end of the year from the year from the year from the year from the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the year of the year until the year until the year of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the year of the end of the year of the year of the year of the year of the year to the year of the year of the year until 30 of the year of the year of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the year of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the year until of the year until of the year until of the year until the year until the year until the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the end of the year until the year until the year until [[NY]] 821 entry 60, increased by 3 400 000 from 2 500 000 from 2 500 000 from 2 000 000 from 2 000 000 from 2 000 000 from 2 000 000 from 2 000 000 from 2 000 000 from 2 500 000 from 2 500 000 from 2 500 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] 858 Item 1, reduced by 2 400 000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €400,000from €16 403 000from €18 803 000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €30 from €30 from €300,000 from €30 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €30 to €300,000 from €300,000 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €300,000 from € worth from €300,000 from €30 from €30 to €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from €30 from € worth from € worth from € worth spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent from € worth from € worth from €30 from € worth spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent spent from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] 1760, item 45, increased by 122 579 000 from NOK 881 538 000 to NOK 1 004 117 00044Co-financed works, nationally financed, may be transferred, increased by 6 000 000 from NOK 31 923 000 to NOK 37 923 00045Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, may be transferred under Chapter. [[NY]] 1761, item 45, is reduced by 101 039 000 from NOK 6 998 359 000 to NOK 6 897 320 00075. 1760, entry 44,decreased at NOK 25000000from NOK 29000000from NOK 29000000from NOK 35000000from NOK 82 135 0001761New fighting aircraft with base solution45Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance,can be transferred,delayed at NOK 100000000from NOK 1 781000000from kr 1 681 000000from NOK 100000000from kr 41000000from kr 41000000from kr 540000001790from kr 573 382 000from kr 573 382 000from kr 847 100 000from kr 813 000from kr 1 830 000from kr 1 981 000from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr 1 831 000 from kr from from kr from kr from from NOK 303 000 from from NOK 303 000 from from NOK 303 to NOK from from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from from NOK 303 to NOK 830 from from NOK 830 from from NOK 830 from from from from from NOK 830 from from NOK 830 from from NOK 830 000 from NOK from from from from from from from from from from from NOK 10 303 to 303 to NOK from from from from from NOK from NOK from from from from from from from from NOK from from from from 30 from NOK from from from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 303 from 30 from 30 from NOK from from from from from NOK from 30 from 30 from 303 to NOK from 30 from 303 to 303 to 303 to 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from from from from 30 from from from from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from from from from 30 from from from from from 30 from 30 from 30 from 1 to 30 from 1 to 30 from from from 30 from 1 to 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from from 30 from 30 from 30 from from from 30 from from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[NY]] [[New]] resided in Norway, granted at 3000000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e13157	There is a vote on proposal No. 47, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a case on ratification of the Additional Protocol on the right of appeal to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child’.» All parties have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e13172	There is a vote on proposal No. 44, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2013 is amended as follows: 20Statsminister’s office1Drivingexpenditure transferred500projects, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500b, 500budgets, 500budgets, 500b, 500b, 500b., 500b., 500b., 500b., 500b., 500b., 500b., 500b., 500b., 500b., 500b., 500b., 500b., 500b., 500b., 500b., 500b., 500b. [[New]] [[New]] 441 item 1, increased by 39 450 000 from DKK 10 455 236 000 to DKK 10 494 686 00021Special operating expenditure, increased by 5 200 000 from NOK 205 170 000 to NOK 210 370 00070Additional expenditure, increased by 20 000 000 from NOK 26 641 000 to NOK 46 641 000441Oslo police district1Operating expenditure, can be used under Chapter. Printed by 26 320000budgets from 13 30 000budgets from 3 tomorrow 30 000budgets from 2 085 6 6 000budgets from 2 500 000budgets from 548 688 000budgets from 5 58 000budgets from 2 100 000budgets from 150 130 000budgets from 2 500 000budgets from social security and care 70budgets from private donations from 3 430 000budgets from 5 5 56 000budgets from 8 991 000budgets from 1 500budgets from 2 000budgets from 864 143 000budgets from 866 143 000budgets from 2 3 304 000budgets from 7 58 000budgets from 7 58 000budgets from 758 80 000budgets from 1 100 000budgets from 6 100 000budgets from 7 100 000budgets from 2 000budgets from 2 000budgets [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 858.item 1, reduced by 2 400 000from 2 000 000 from 2 000 000 from 2 000 000 from 2 000 000 from 2 000 000 from 2 000 000 from 2 000 000 from 2 000 000 from 2 000 to 9 000 from 2 000 9 000 from 2 000 000 from NOK 16 403 000 to NOK 18 803 000 from EUR 55 000 from EUR 14 985 000 from EUR 14 40 000 from EUR 10 000 000 from EUR 15 040 000 from EUR 8 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 to 0 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 to 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from 2 000 from2 [[New]] 855 000from €50000000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €100,000from €100,000from €100,000from €100,000from €100,000from €100,000from €100,000from €100,000from €100,000from €100,000from €100,000from €100,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €210,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €300,000 from €30 from €300,000 from €30 from €300,000 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 to €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from € 30 to € 30 to €30 from €30 from €30 from € 30 to € 30 to €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from € 30 to € 30 from € 30 to € 30 from € 30 from € 30 from € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 from € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 from € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € 30 to € [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 1760, item 45, increased by 122 579 000 from NOK 881 538 000 to NOK 1 004 117 00044Co-financed works, nationally financed, may be transferred, increased by 6 000 000 from NOK 31 923 000 to NOK 37 923 00045Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, may be transferred under Chapter. 1761, item 45, is reduced by 101 039 000 from NOK 6 998 359 000 to NOK 6 897 320 00075. [[New]] 1760, entry 44, reduced by NOK 6000000, from NOK 3000000, from NOK 8000000 to NOK 82 135 000,1761New fighter aircraft with base resolution45Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred, reduced by NOK 100000000, from NOK 1 781000000 to NOK 1 681 000, from NOK 100000000 to NOK 41000000, from NOK 93000000 to NOK 573 382 000 from kr 573 382 000 to NOK 847 313 000, from NOK 313 000, from NOK 836 000 to NOK 830 000, from NOK 1 018 801 000, from NOK 1 162 524 000, from NOK 531 000, from NOK 573 382 000 to NOK 830, from NOK 313 000, from NOK 1000 to NOK 1000, from NOK 830 000 to NOK 1000, from NOK 830 000, from NOK 830 000 to NOK 830 000, from NOK 303 000, from NOK 303 000 to NOK 830 000, from NOK 1000, from NOK 1000 to NOK 1000, from NOK 3031000, from NOK 1000 to NOK 1000, from NOK 1000, from NOK 1000, from NOK 1000 to NOK 1000, from NOK 1000; from NOK 1000 from NOK 1061 58 to EUR; [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] resided in Norway, granted at 3000000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e22720	There is a vote on proposal No. 46, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks that matters relating to long-term asylum children be left in the hands of a regulation which ensures that the best emphasis is placed on children’s best interests in relation to immigration regulatory considerations.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e22737	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 40 to 43, from the right. Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2013 shall be amended as follows: Printed by the Minister of State’s office1Driving expenditure transferred to 500 000 from 2000 to 2000 000 from 2000 to 2000 000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from the 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 441 item 1, increased by 159 450 000 from DKK 10 455 236 000 to DKK 10 614 686 00021Special operating expenditure, increased by 5 200 000 from NOK 205 170 000 to NOK 210 370000441Oslo Police district1Operating expenditure, can be used under Chapter. Printed by 26 320000budgets from 13 30 000budgets from 31 30 000budgets from 31 30 000budgets from 31 30 000budgets from 31 30 000budgets from 31 30 000budgets from 2 085 66 000budgets from 1 100 000budgets from 150 000budgets from 152 230 000budgets from 2 500 000budgets from 548 688 000budgets from 31 30 30 000budgets from 2 58 000budgets from 7 56 000budgets from 2 100 000budgets from 150 000budgets from 8 30 30 000budgets from 2 3 3 30 000budgets from 2 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 338 000budgets from 7 58 000budgets from 7 58 000budgets from 7 58 000budgets from 1 100 000budgets from 2 100 000budgets from 7 99 000budgets from 7 99 000budgets from 2 to 30 30 30 30 30 40 000budgets from 2 to 30 30 30 30 000budgets from 2 to 30 30 30 30 30 30 39 000budgets from 2 3 3 3 38, from 2 3 38, 3 38 to 30 38, 3 30 30 30 308 to 30 30 30 30 30 38, from 2 3 38, 7 30 308 000budgets from 7 308 to 308 to 308 to 308 to 308 to 40 000budgets from 2 3 38, from 7 308 to 30 30 30 39, 7 30, from 7 309 000budgets from 7 30budgets from 2 3 38, from 7 30budgets from 7 30 39 from 7 30 39, and 7 30 39 to 30 39, and 7 30 39 from 7 30 39 to 30 39 to 7 30 39 to 30 39, from 7 30 39, from 7 30, from 7 30 39, from 7 30 39, from 7 30 39, from 7 30, from 7 30, from 7 30 39, from 7 30 39, from 7 30 39, from 7 30 49, from 7 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30, from 7 30 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 858 items 1, reduced by 2 400 000from €930000 from €930 000 from €330 000 from €330 000 from €330 000 from €240 000 from €16 403 000 to €18 803 000 from €330 000 from €330 000 from €349 000 from €878 000 from €878 000 to €21 205 400 000 from €830 000 from €830 000 from €50 from €330 000 from €330 000 from €330 000 from €335 000 from €318 000 from €398 000 from €398 000 from €2100 000 from €2100 000 from €2100 000 from €2100 000 from €2100 000 from €2100 000 from €330 000 from €3, €335 000 from €330 000 from €318000000 from €318000000 from €318000000 from €398 000 from €3108 000 from €3800 from €2100 000 from €2100 to €31000 from €3100 from €3100 from €3100 from €3100 from €3100 to €3100 from €3, €3300 from €3300 from €3300 from €3800 from €3300 from €3300 from €330 from €330 from €330 to €330 from €3000000 from €33030 from €330 from €330303030 from €30 from €30 to €30 from €330 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from € worth from € worth from €30 from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from € worth from € worth from €30 from €30 from €30 from € worth from €30 from €30 from €30 from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from €30 from € worth from € worth from € 3030 from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 1760, item 45, increased by 122 579 000 from NOK 881 538 000 to NOK 1 004 117 00044Co-financed works, nationally financed, may be transferred, increased by 6 000 000 from NOK 31 923 000 to NOK 37 923 00045Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, may be transferred under Chapter. 1761, item 45, is reduced by 101 039 000 from NOK 6 998 359 000 to NOK 6 897 320 00075. 1760, entry 44, to be reduced by 6 000 000 from NOK 2 000 to NOK 8 135 000 to NOK 82 135 0001761New fighter aircraft with base resolution45Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred, reduced by 100 000 000 from NOK 1 781 000 000 to NOK 1 681 000 00047Reconstruction and new facilities, may be transferred, increased by 100 000 000 from NOK 41 000 to NOK 41 0001790Coastal costs, usable costs, can be spent, used for EUR 847 31 0001792Norwegian forces in the rest of the world1 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] settled in Norway, granted by 3 000 0005800 Member States’ pension funds abroad50Transfer from the fund, reduced by 853 300 000from NOK 123 663 327 000 to NOK 122 810 027 000’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a comprehensive forest strategy for a long-term, sustainable and profitable industrial exploitation of Norwegian forest resources. The analysis must focus on cost reductions and efficiency in the ‘buckle-to-market’ chain.’» Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The government requests the investigation and appropriate promotion of a case in which it is assessed whether forest tax and, where appropriate, how capital in a forest tax account can be mobilised as a source of capital for industrial investment in industry.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The size consents to a saving of 350 million. SEK of operating expenditure of departments and agencies [[items 1 to 29, excluding entry 24]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e32896	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11–39, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2013 shall be amended as follows: Printed by the Minister of State Office1Driving expenditure transferred to 500 000 from 2000 to 2000 000 from 2000 to 2000 000 from 2000 to 2000 000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 to 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from the 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from 2000 from [[New]] [[New]] 441 item 1, increased by 164 450 000 from DKK 10 455 236 000 to NOK 10 619 686 00021Special operating expenditure, increased by 5 200 000 from NOK 205 170 000 to NOK 210 370000441Oslo police district1Operating expenditure, can be used under Chapter. Printed by 26 320000budgets from 13 30 000budgets from 31 30 000budgets from 31 30 000budgets from 31 30 000budgets from 31 30 000budgets from 31 30 000budgets from 31 30 000budgets from 2 085 66 000budgets from 1 100 000budgets from 150 000budgets from 15 500 000budgets from 548 688 000budgets from 10 40 000budgets from 10 000budgets from 10 000budgets from 150 000budgets from 15 000budgets from 8 48 000budgets from 70gbudgets from 307 000budgets from 307 000budgets from 307 000budgets from 308 to 308 38, 330 000budgets from 308 307 000budgets from 308 to 308 308 308 to 308 308 to 308 000budgets from 307 000budgets from 309 000budgets from 308 to 308 to 308 to 308 to 309 000budgets from 308 to 308 to 308 to 308 to 308 308 308 to 308 to 308 to 308 to 308 308 308 308 to 308 to 308 to 308 to 308 308 308 308 to 308 to 308 to 308 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 858 item 1, reduced by 2 400 000from €30000000 from €30000000 from €30000000 from €30000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 to €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €303000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €304000000 from €30335000000 from €303000000 from €302 335000000 from €304000000 from €303180,000 from €303000000 from €303000000 from €303 0308000000 from €308000000 from €303358000000 from €303 3353 billion from €303 3358000000 from €30, estimated from €308000000 from €308000000 from €308000000 from €308000000 to €308000000 from €308000000 from €308000000 from €308000000 from €308000000 from €303303 3358000000 from €308000000 from €308000000 from €308000000 from €30 to €308000000 from €303 3358000000 from €308000000 from €308000000 from €308000000 from €308000000 from €308000000 from €303303308000000 from €308000000 from €303303308000000 from € worth from €308000000 from €308000000 from €3030308000000 from €3030308000000 from €30308000000 from €303308000000 from € worth from € worth from € worth from €308000000 from €308000000 from € worth budget budget available budget available budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget budget available budget budget available budget available budget available budget available from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € worth from € [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 1760, item 45, increased by 122 579 000 from NOK 881 538 000 to NOK 1 004 117 00044Co-financed works, nationally financed, may be transferred, increased by 6 000 000 from NOK 31 923 000 to NOK 37 923 00045Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, may be transferred under Chapter. [[New]] [[New]] 1761, item 45, is reduced by 101 039 000 from NOK 6 998 359 000 to NOK 6 897 320 00075. [[New]] 1760, entry 44, to be reduced by 6000000, from 3000000, to €88 135000, to €82 135 000,1761New fighter aircraft with base resolution45Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred, reduced by 100000000, from NOK 1 781000000 to NOK 1 681 000, from NOK 100000000 to NOK 41000000, from NOK 93000000 to NOK 573 382 000, from NOK 847 to NOK 313 000, from NOK 313 000, from NOK 322 000 to NOK 352 000, from NOK 1000 to NOK 1 018 801 000, from NOK 162 524 000, from NOK 10 000, from NOK 573 382 000 to NOK 897 000, from NOK 313 000, from NOK 313 000 to NOK 1000, from NOK 1000 to NOK 1000, from NOK 818 000 to NOK 829 000, from NOK 879 000 to NOK 1 963 000, from NOK 1000 to NOK 1 963 000, from NOK 1 963 000, from NOK 585 000, from NOK 10 000 to NOK 1000; from NOK 50, from NOK 10 000 from NOK 1000 to EUR; from NOK 10 000; from NOK 1000; from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000, from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000; from NOK 1000; from NOK 1000; from NOK 1000, from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000; from NOK 1000; from NOK 1000; from NOK 1000; from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000; from NOK 1000 from NOK [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] resided in Norway, granted at 3000000’» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of an automatic work permit system for nationals from non-EEA countries after completion of a doctorate in Norway.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals in the context of the 2014 State Budget to start-up funding for new medical and health buildings in Tromsø.’ [[MHII]] Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The size request of the government to ensure that a sufficient number of rescue helicopters complying with today’s standard requirements are put in place as soon as possible.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought by the government to establish a statutory system for the continuous admission of kindergartens in Norway. The entitlement to kindergarten shall be exercised at the earliest from the time when the child reaches the age of one – 1 – year, or from the end of the parental leave if prolonged.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2014 with the necessary proposals to form the basis of a programme of consolidation for the municipalities in order to record the maintenance of municipal buildings and installations in order to ensure the health, environment and safety of the use of these facilities.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget in the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2014 with an overview of the extent to which the municipal sector has incurred unmet costs related to the implementation of the interaction reform.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting in connection with the treatment of the State budget for 2014 with an overview of the actual need for rehabilitation and rehabilitation of municipal schools and swimming facilities.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking for the Government to return to the Grand Duchy in the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2014 with the necessary proposals to form the basis of a programme of consolidation for the municipalities in order to record the maintenance of municipal buildings and installations in order to ensure the health, environment and safety of the use of these facilities.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a complete review of the resource area and a proposal for a new regulatory framework for allocation and financing based on the content of NOU 2010:5.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure capacity development and better coverage of the national air ambulance service, at the latest in the context of the State budget for 2014.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a mechanism to ensure that the right to dispose of the amount under the DRG credit code is granted to the individual patient as payment to a private hospital in Norway or a hospital abroad after the documented operation/treatment.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to come back to Stortinget with a strategy to recruit more people to take health education. Requests are made for the plan to include proposals for long-term and predictable financing of training.’;» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The government is asking, in the context of the State budget for 2014, for proposals to introduce an annual indexation of child rights.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for a statutory, fully-fledged net pay scheme applicable to those who meet the current criteria to be covered by the refund ceiling of DKK 198 000.» Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose an adjustment to the ceiling for the reimbursement of seafarers’ employment to take account of the increase in wages and prices from 1 July 2008 up to and including the spring of 2013.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asking for equal treatment of all wood processing establishments with regard to CO2 compensation in respect of both old and new contracts, in order to enable them to compete on equal terms.’ Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asking for regulatory review so that it does not impede the use of ash as a resource as is done in Sweden and, if necessary, promote the cause of the Stortinge.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government requests harmonisation of Norwegian legislation with regard to the transport of timber and timber in order to allow the use of modular trains.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: «The government asks the government to set up a state-owned company, Riksvei SF, to make socially viable road investments.» Proposal No. 31 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to set up a State-owned company, the Railway SF, to make socially viable railway investments.’ Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The government is asked to reconsider whether it is appropriate to subject services relating to public roads and railways to VAT.’ Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asking to return to Stortinget in connection with the treatment of the State budget for 2014 with proposals to strengthen the funding arrangements for the construction of student housing so that the construction of a minimum of 2000 new student housing can be started in 2014.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asked to return to Stortinget in the context of the treatment of the State budget for 2014 with an overview of the extent to which the municipal sector has incurred unmet costs related to the implementation of the interaction reform.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a return to the Storting in connection with the treatment of the government budget for 2014 with an overview of the costs incurred and expected for the rehabilitation and rehabilitation of the building stock, which was damaged in connection with the attack on the government quarter of 22 July 2011, including safeguard measures.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: ‘The government is requesting regulatory review with a view to ensuring State guarantees in all borrowings carried out by public institutions so that they can achieve the lowest interest rate possible.’ Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the TEK 10 regulation in order to make it more liberal in allowing rentals as long as health, fire and escape are duly taken into account.’ Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of the VAT system with a view to eliminating unnecessary cash flows and thereby preventing economic crime and VAT fraud. The case shall be brought before the Grand Duchy." Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government is asked to start work on abolishing withholding withholding taxes on Norwegian pensioners abroad and to ensure, as soon as possible, that the unfairness of the tax authorities against these people ceases.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e42656	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the government to return to the Grand Duchy in connection with the treatment of the State budget for 2014 with an overview of the actual need for rehabilitation and rehabilitation of the country’s church buildings.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e42671	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–9, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to take action to reduce the time period for processing asylum applications.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to intensify negotiations on readmission agreements with the countries of origin of asylum seekers most frequently arrested in drug and other criminal matters.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make greater use of the possibility of quickly returning criminal asylum seekers to their country of origin if they return quickly from another Dublin Member State and commit new crimes in Norway. The size requires this to be done in the framework of the Dublin II Regulation.» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for preventive information campaigns to be launched in countries where there are many groundless asylum applications.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting requiring social assistance applicants to have the right and the obligation to participate in activities as soon as it is feasible, if there are not quite specific circumstances that indicate that this is not possible.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked by the government, through its ownership of Statskog SF, to intensify the sale of forest and other real estate by arrears by the company. Stateskog SF owns today.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government requests the elimination of the use of double instruments for undertakings subject to allowances.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e42718	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is requesting the prompt reintroduction of the instructions to prioritize drug use and mental health protection in the specialist healthcare service.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to change the rules on investment grants to the care and care of lucky people so that private and non-profit actors can also seek and receive investment grants for the construction of nursing homes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e42739	Now, when we're going to vote on the motion for a resolution of the vote, the party groups are set to refrain from following up their primary positions, so that we let go of a split and, to some extent, complicated voting. This is under the clear condition that it is not used against them on a later occasion. The Committee had set up: I The State budget for 2013 is amended as follows: 20Statsministeren's office:1Operating expenditure, increased by 3 000 000 from 91 450 000 to 94 450 00021Stats council:1Operating expenditure, increased by 4 000 000 from 147 800 000 to 151 800 00043Ombudsman of the government:1Operating expenditure, increased by 4 510 000 from 54 350 000 to 58 860 00061High rating:1Operating expenditure, increased by 1 329 000 from 85 084 000 to 86 413 000100Ministry of State, reduced by 1,450 000 from NOK 1 820 686 000 to NOK 1 819 236 000118Northern area measures, etc. :71Support for the development of societies, democracy and human rights, may be transferred, reduced by NOK 700000 from NOK 58 831000 to NOK 58 131 000150Aid to Africa:78Regional allocation to Africa, may be transferred, reduced by 61 000 000 from NOK 2 158 300 000 to NOK 2 097 300 000151Aid to Asia:72Aid to Afghanistan and Pakistan, may be transferred, reduced by 20 000 000 from € 649 500 000 to NOK 629 500 000 to NOK 629 500 000 to NOK 287 000 000. [[New]] 441 item 1, increased by 39 450 000 from DKK 10 455 236 000 to DKK 10 494 686 00021Special operating expenditure, increased by 5 200 000 from NOK 205 170 000 to NOK 210 370 00070Additional expenditure, increased by 10 000 000 from NOK 26 641 000 to NOK 36 641 000441Oslo police district:1Operating expenditure, can be used under Chapter. 4304040442Policy School:1Activity expenditure, increased by 2 500 000from €548 688 000from €448 000from €448 000from €448 000from €448 000from €448 000from €448 000from €448 000from €430 000from €5 561 000from €899 000from €150 000 to €15230 000from €2000000from €644 000from €866 143 000from €866 143 000 from €846 000 from €848 000 from €430 000 from €430 000 from €430 000 from €430 000 from €430 000 from €2000000 from €4100 000 from €896 000 to €836 000 from €896 000 from €896 000 from €830 000 from €830 000 from €848 000 from €830 000 from €830,230 000 from €430,230 000 from €430,230,230 000 from €238 from €230,430,2300000 from €238 to €238 3029,43030,430,430,430 000 from €230,4300000 from €238 000 from €238 to €330 to €843,430,33029,330 to €33029,33029,330 3029,330 to €230 to €330 to €330 to €330 to €238 from €229,330 to €338 to €330,330,330,330,330 to €330 to €330,330 from €330,4,4,330,330,330,330,329 3029 3029 3029 3029 3029 3029,429 3029 3029,429 3029 3029,429 3029,29 3029 3029,29,430 to €29 3029,29 3029 3029,29 3029 3029,29,29,29,29,29,29 3029,29 3029,29,29,29 3029,29,29,29,29,29,29,29,29,29,29,29,29,29 3029 3029,•21Special operating costs, reduced by 1 24 000 000budgets, 000 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budges, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budges, 000budgets, 000budges, 000budges, 000budgets, 000budges, 000budges, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets, 000budgets from 2000000:1Operating expenditure, increased by 3 500 000 from NOK 54 064 000 to NOK 57 564 0001600Ministry of Finance:1Operating expenditure, increased by 450 000 from NOK 313 500000 to NOK 313 950 0001610Cutting and charging seat:1Operating expenditure, increased by NOK 21 000 000 from NOK 1 479 100000 to NOK 1 500 100 0001618Taxation:1Operating expenditure, increased by SEK 9 200 000 from NOK 4 4 487 300000 to NOK 4 4 496 500 000 00021Special operating expenditure, increased by NOK 10 000 000 from NOK 150 000 to NOK 160 000 00045 Major equipment acquisitions and maintenance, may be carried over, increased by NOK 5 600 000 from NOK 96 500000 to NOK 102 100 00070 Grants, granted by NOK 3 600 0001650Stats, interest, etc. [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 1Operating costs, reduced by 1 540 000from NOK 378 016 000 to NOK 376 476 00017 000 from NOK 36 700 000 from NOK 1 700 000 from the Ministry of Defence:1Operating costs, reduced by 1 540 000 from NOK 378 016 000 to NOK 376 476 0001710Dutch costs, can be transferred, increased by 20 500 000 from NOK 3 060 316 000 to NOK 3 080 516 000 from NOK 1 772 567 0001719Dutch costs and subsidies to enterprises under the Ministry of Defence:1Operating costs, reduced by 50 000 from NOK 237 931 000 to NOK 1 737 881 0001720Falling costs: 1 772 567 000 to NOK 1 717 000 from NOK 1 517 000 from NOK 312 000 from NOK 316 000 from NOK 316 000 from NOK 316 000 from NOK 316 000 from NOK 316 000 from NOK 316 000 from NOK 396 000 from NOK 396 000 from NOK 396 000 from NOK 396 000 from NOK 316 000 from NOK 329 to NOK 316 000 from NOK 316 000 from NOK 316 000 from NOK from NOK 396 000 from NOK 329 [[New]] 1760, item 45, increased by 122 579 000 from NOK 881 538 000 to NOK 1 004 117 00044Co-financed works, nationally financed, may be transferred, increased by 6 000 000 from NOK 31 923 000 to NOK 37 923 00045Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, may be transferred under Chapter. 1761, item 45, is reduced by 101 039 000 from NOK 6 998 359 000 to NOK 6 897 320 00075. 1760, entry 44, decreased by 6 000 000 000 from NOK 8 135000 to NOK 82 135 0001761New fighter aircraft with base resolution:45Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance, can be transferred, reduced by 100 000 000 from NOK 1 781 000 000 to NOK 1 681 000 000, can be transferred, increased by 100 000 000 from NOK 4 000 000 to NOK 141 0001790Coastal costs:1Draft costs may be transferred to NOK 847 313 0001792Norwegian energy spent to NOK 1 002 204 000 to NOK 1 019 0 40 0001791Emergency costs may be increased by SEK 273 931 000from kr 573 382 000 to kr 818 313 000, spent by kr 318 000, may be spent to NOK 8 3 000, and spent by NOK 2 3 300 000 may be spent to NOK 8 3 000. [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 70State guarantee for wages and salaries in the event of bankruptcy etc., the estimate is increased by 45 000 000 from NOK 705 000 to NOK 750 000 0002620Aid to a single mother or father:70Transition grant, allocation of the estimate, reduced by 8 000 000 from NOK 2 489 000 000 to NOK 2 481 000 0002650Sickness grant:70Sickness grant for employees, etc., estimate appropriation, reduced by 46 000 000 from DKK 33 280 000 to NOK 32 82 000 00071Sickness grant, reduced by 60 000 from DKK 1 720 000 to NOK 26 60 000 000. 71Help pay, estimate grant, reduced by 1330 500 000 from NOK 2 731 600 000 to NOK 2 599 10 000 000 from NOK 1 690 000 000 from NOK 1 160 000 000 to NOK 1 10 10 000 000 from NOK 1 10 000 000 from NOK 1 10 000 000 from NOK 1 10 000 000 from NOK 1 10 000 000 from NOK 1 10 000 000 from NOK 56 2 000 000 from NOK 56 2 000 000 from NOK 1 10 000 from from NOK 2 500 000 from NOK 500 000 from NOK 500 000 from NOK 500 000 from NOK 6 70 000 000 from NOK 10000 from NOK 10 10 000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 10 107 000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 000 from EUR from NOK 50 000 from EUR from NOK 50 000 from EUR from EUR from NOK 50 000 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR 30 from EUR from EUR from EUR 30 from EUR 30 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR 30 from EUR 30 from EUR 30 from EUR from EUR from EUR 30 from EUR 30 from EUR 30 from EUR 30 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR 30 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from 1Reflection of government activities, etc., reduced by 4 000 000 from DKK 45 000 000 to DKK 41 000 00085Request of error in waiting wages, reduced by 400 000 from DKK 1 500 000 to DKK 1 100 0003711nutrition and food security:2Various incomes, reduced by 200 000 from DKK 407 000 to NOK 207 0003715State radiation protection:2Various revenues, reduced by 15 000 000 from DKK 41 061000 to NOK 26 061 0005Procurement income, reduced by 4 300 000 from DKK 5 5 529 000 to DKK 1 229 0003821Residence of refugees and measures for immigrants:1Integration grants for transfer refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, increased by 2 388 000 from DKK 87 472 000 to DKK 89 860 0002Special grant for housing of single, minor refugees, ODA-approved expenditure, increased by 12 527 000 kr. [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] Project receipts, reduced by $2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €4 billion from €4 billion from €4 billion from €4 billion from €50,000 from €3 billion from €3 billion from €3 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from €2 billion from € from € from €2 billion from €2 billion from € from € from € from € from € from € from €2 billion from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from €3 from €3 from € from €3 from €3 from €2 billion from €3 from €3 from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from €3 from €3 from € from €3 from €3 from €3 from €3 from €2 billion from €3 from €2 billion from € from € from € from € from €3 from € from € from €3 from €3 from €3 from €3 from €3 from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from €3 from € from € from €3 from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from € [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] $300000 from $24 500 000 from €21000 from €21000 from €216 000 from €216 000 from €21 460 000 from €21 484 500 000 from €550000 from €72 000 from the Ministry of Health and Health: €71 500 000 from €16 300 000 to €17 800 000 from €2800 000 from €37 100 000 from €36 300 000 from €36 300 000 from €72 500 000 from €1 500 000 from €16 300 000 to €17 800 000 from €17 000 from €17 000 from €17 000 from €296 000 to €56 000 from €30 000 from €140000 from €1 400000 to €1 400000 €5611 000 from € from €10 000 from €120000 from €120000 from €120000 from €12 000 from €17 000 from €17 000 from €296 000 from €296 000 from €296 000 from €29000000 from €29000000 from €29000000 from €29000000 from €29000000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €290,000 from €2930 from €2930 from €2930 from €30 from €2930 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from € from €30 from € from € from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from € from € from € from € from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from € from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from € from € from € from € from € from €30 from € from € from € from € from € from € from € from [[New]] [[New]] resided in Norway, granted at 3 000 000 Authorisations to exceed the appropriations allocated II Additional revenue The cancelation consents to: 4th@item: inlistbox The Ministry of the Environment in 2013 may: exceed the appropriations below the corresponding deficit revenue. 1420 item 1 cap. 4420 entries 1, 4, 6, 8 and 9cap. 1420 Item 25kap. Item No 4420(2) 5th@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Oil and Energy in 2013 may: exceed the appropriations below the corresponding deficit revenue. 1825 heading 21kap. 4825, heading 10 III Additional revenue in the valbard budget The Trustee agrees that the Ministry of Justice and Defence in 2013 may: 6. exceed the allocation of the swallowbard budget cap. 9 Cultural memory measures, item 1 Operating expenditure, against corresponding Chapter revenue. 3009 Cultural memory measures, item 2 Reimbursements. 7. exceed the allocation of the swallowbard budget cap. 22 Svalbard Equation Manager, Item 1 Operating costs, against corresponding sub-chapter revenues. 3022 Equation Administration of Svalbard, Item 2 Refunds. Authorisations to impose obligations on the State in excess of appropriations granted IV Requesting powers The cancelation consents to: Eight. The Ministry of Justice and Defence in 2013 may order goods in addition to the appropriations allocated, but so that the overall framework for new orders and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Chapter.PostDescriptionTotal Framework455Rescue service45Larger equipment acquisitions and maintenance 435.0 million. kronor 9th@item: inlistbox The Ministry of the Environment in 2013 may order material and similar beyond allocated appropriations, but so that the overall framework for new orders and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Chapter.PostDescriptionTotal framework1420Environmental Directorate22State water action40.0 million. SEK31Measures in areas of protection7.0 million. SEK1465 Staten Kartverk30Geodesiobservatoriet i New-Ålesund260.7 mil. kronor 10th@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Defence in 2013 can order material, etc. in addition to the appropriations allocated, but so that the overall framework for new orders and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: 1720Joint management and command equipment1Operating costs430 million. SEK1725Joint institutions and expenditure under the Defence Staff1Operating expenditure75 million. SEK1731Hearer1Operating expenditure130 million. SEK1732Marine defence1Operating expenditure810 million. NOK1733Air defence1Operating expenditure SEK750 million. SEK1734Investment protection1Investment expenditure65 million. SEK1740Federal logistical organisation1Operating expenditure1 200 million. SEK1760New acquisitions of tangible goods, new buildings and new installations1Operating costs100 million. SEK44Jointly funded works, nationally funded share80 million. SEK1790Coastal guard1Operating expenditure2 080 million. SEK1791The rescue helicopter service1Operating costs60 million. SEK1792Norwegian strengths abroad1Operating expenditure25 million. kronor VT Plenipotentiaries of commitments The cancelation consents to: 11th@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Knowledge in 2013 may offer commitments to pay 20 pst. of grants for training in criminal services under Chapter. 225 Measures in initial training, Item 68 Grants for training in criminal services, subsequent financial year when final accounts are available. 12th@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Knowledge in 2013 may offer grants beyond the ceiling. 255 Grants to peace and human rights centres, item 74 Narvik Centre, within a framework of 81,5 million. kroner for new premises for the Narvik Centre. 13th@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Culture in 2013 may offer grants in addition to the grant granted, but so that the overall framework for new commitments and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Chapter.PostNameTotal framework328Museum and other cultural protection purposes78Valid measures12.40 million. kronor 14th @item: inlistbox The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in 2013 may offer grants in addition to the grant granted, but so that the overall framework for new commitments and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Chapter.PostDescriptionTotal framework581Accommodation and environment76Accommodation to rental dwellings384,40 million. kronor 15th The Ministry of Labour in 2013 may offer grants in addition to the grant granted, but so that the overall framework for new commitments and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Chapter.PostDescriptionTotal framework634Work market measures76Employers' measures2 548.78 million. kronor 16th@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Agriculture and Food in 2013 may offer grants in addition to the grant granted, but so that the overall framework for new commitments and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Cape TownPostDescriptionTotal ram1148Natural damage – substitutes71Natural damage, substitutes85.20 million. kronor 17. The Ministry of the Environment in 2013 may offer grants in excess of the appropriations allocated, but so that the overall framework for new commitments and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: Chapter.PostDescriptionTotal framework1420Directorate for Environment30State acquisitions, open-air binding55.00 million. SEK32State acquisitions, county protection plans9,90 million. kroner34State acquisitions, national parks145,90 million. kroner35State acquisitions, new forest protection116.40 million. SEK83Compensation for the relocation of farming facilities $2.25 million. kroner85National Park Centres and other nature information centres2,00 million. kronor VI Authorisation to order material and grant commitments The size consents to the Ministry of the Environment being able to order material in 2013 and to give commitments for grants in excess of the amount granted under Chapter 2. 1420 The Environment Directorate, posts 39, 69 and 79, but so that the overall framework for new and old responsibilities does not exceed 83.2 million. krones. VII Authorisation to enter into a lease The majority agrees that the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church in 2013 can incur commitments of up to 25 million. SEK 2014 for the rent of premises of the Ministry of Knowledge in Kirkegata 15. VIII Authorisations to impose obligations relating to investment projects The cancelation consents to: 18th@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church shall be empowered to carry out the following projects: Construction of the new University of Ås and the Veterinary Institute within a cost framework of 6 325.0 million. krona in price level as of 1 July 2013. b. Rehabilitation of the University Museum at the University of Bergen, Phase 1, within a cost framework of 328.0 million. krona in price level as at 1 July 2013. c. Construction for the co-location of the Bergen School of Art and Design within a cost framework of 1,037.8 million. krona in price level as at 1 July 2013. New technology building at the University of Southern Trøndelag within a cost framework of 686.2 million. krona at price level as at 1 July 2013. 19th@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Transport is authorised to carry out the project Bjørnfjell and Rombak crossing tracks within a cost framework of 579,0 million. krona in price level 2013. IX Loan framework of the house bank The majority agrees that in 2013 Husbanken can offer loans for 25 billion. krones. Loans will be paid in 2013 and later years. Other authorisations X Payment of grants to the IMF loan scheme The paper agrees that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when paying grants to the IMF loan scheme for low-income countries, totals 19.38 million. SDRs, may derogate from the Decision of 8 November 1984 on the payment of grants before there is a need to cover the expenditure in question. XI Net incurrence of reimbursements The cancelation consents to: 20. The Ministry of Labour in 2013 may make net reimbursements for joint services as cost reductions under cap. 642 Petroleum control, item 1 Operating expenditure. 21st Last@item: inlistbox The Ministry of Oil and Energy in 2013 can make net reimbursements for joint services as cost reductions under cap. 1810 Directorate of Oil, Item 1 Operating expenditure. XII Add Keyword The Trustee agrees that the budget for 2013 is committed under the heading of the State budget. 1062 Coastal works, entry 21 Special operating expenditure, the catchment string «can be used under item 1» is added. XIII Creation of unassigned items The majority agrees that it is in the State budget for 2013 under cap. 1420 The Directorate for the Environment shall be set up without allocation: 22nd@item: inlistbox Item 39 Cleaning measures, may be carried over, can be used under items 69 and 79. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox Item 69 Cleaning measures, may be carried over, may be used under items 39 and 79. 24th@item: inlistbox Item 79 Cleaning measures, may be carried over, can be used under items 39 and 69. 25-digit number Item 83 Compensation in the case of the transfer of rearing facilities. XIV Coordination to new university The Storting agrees that Norway's veterinary college and the University of Environmental and Bioscience can be co-organised into a new university with effect from 1 January 2014. XV Authorisation for disposal of property The Storting agrees that the Ministry of the Environment in 2013 can dispose of the properties Bergkjølen forest in Aurskog-Høland municipality and Akershus and Havnevik forest in Svelvik municipality. XVI Authorisation for the purchase of climate allowances The size consents to the reintroduction of the system of purchasing climate allowances for government employees' flights not covered by the general obligation on allowances for air travel. XVII Corrections to the government accounts related to unexplained differences The cancelation consents to: 26. The Ministry of Finance in 2013 may credit the balance of the tax account with the treasury in the government accounts and debit the offsetting account on the balance sheet of 12 011 659 kroner. 27. The Ministry of Justice and Defence in 2013 may credit the current balance of the Court of Justice with the central bank in the national accounts and debit the balance sheet account of NOK 1 797 481.65. XVIII Change in transferred appropriations The size agrees that the Ministry of Finance in the financial statements for 2013 reduces transferred appropriations from 2012 to cap. 1023 Fisheries, aquaculture and transport R & D, item 70 Grants to maritime food and recruitment measures, with 3,217 million. crowns against the corresponding increase in transferred appropriations under Chapter. 2415 Innovation Norway, fisheries and other regional policy measures, heading 75 Marine Value Creation Programme. XIX Development projects on Norwegian continental shelf The majority agrees that in 2013 the King may authorise projects on Norwegian continental shelf under the following conditions: [[plans for deployment/installation and operation]] 28. The project must not have any principal or social implications. 29. The maximum total investment per project amounts to 20 billion. krones. 30. Each project must demonstrate acceptable socio-economic viability and be reasonably robust against changes in the price evolution of oil and natural gas. XX Transfer of shares in extraction permits The majority agrees that the Ministry of Oil and Energy in 2013 may authorise the transfer of participations of Petoro AS managed by the EEAS where it is assumed that at the time of the transfer, the resources of the extraction permit are less than 3 million. Sm3 oil equivalents. [[sale, purchase or exchange]] XXI Changes to the swallowing budget The budget agrees to amend the following appropriations for the valbard budget in 2013 as follows: 31. Cape. 7 Random expenses, item 1 Operating costs, are reduced by 750,000 kroner, from NOK 2 500 000 to NOK 170000. Thirty-two. Cape. 3 Grants to Longyearbyen local government, Item 70 Grants to Longyearbyen local government, increased by 750,000 kroner, from 146 063 000 kroner to 146 813,000 kroner. XXII The Government agrees that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 2013 may derogate from the decision granting a grant to Brazil’s Amazon Fund on 8 November 1984 under agreement with the Brazilian Development Bank as fund manager. [[Fundo Amazonia]] [[GNDES]] XXIII Report. St. 2 [[2012-2013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e54159	During the debate, Mr Solvik-Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget asks the government to actively help maintain the competitiveness of Norwegian industry in future payrolls by making proposals for tax reliefs as a contribution to the negotiations in the revised State budget.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The Committee had set up: Document 8:83 S [[2012-2013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-21.ana.ud581e54378	By doing so, we have reached the end of the 157th anniversary – the fourth and last of this parliamentary term – and the figures tell us that there have been four working days. During the period, Stortingen has held 417 meetings. The government has promoted 819 cases for Stortinget, while the depositors have promoted 643 representatives. The government has made 44 presentations for the Storting. The size has treated 1,729 settings. 994 questions have been asked in the ordinary Question Time, and there have been 512 main questions in the oral Question Time. To date, the representatives have asked more than 7 350 written questions. In addition, the government has responded to 400 interpellations. On major national issues, it is important to build broad policy platforms, as we have done in this enlargement period. The decision to change the relationship between state and church is one example of a broad consensus ensuring predictability over time. The matter of the Church of State created a broad commitment and debate both inside and outside the Storting. Such an exposure is important. It is a prerequisite for a living democracy that our debates also find their way out of the staging room. For the government of the people, that is absolutely necessary. One of the tasks we have as representatives is to protect the Constitution. For almost 200 years, the Norwegian Constitution has kept up to date. Much of the reason why it's flexible. It's hard to change, but it's possible to change. The Constitution forms the foundation and framework of our rule of the people. In order to draw more attention to constitutional proposals, we have done something new during this period. We have organised constitutional seminars with external actors in the laying room, and we have had debates on proposals we are going to have to discuss in the next period, in the main hall. The anniversary of the Constitution for next year is an opportunity to raise awareness of the Constitution and the importance of the People's Council in Norwegian society today. The representatives of the next bigotry will have a role to play in this. This is the last ordinary session of the session – and during the election period – and I will take the opportunity to thank all employees in the Stortinget and in the party groups for their efforts to facilitate the exercise of our responsibilities as elected representatives. I would also like to thank the government for its good cooperation during the period. And I would like to thank all the great representatives for the good work that has been done throughout the period, for questions and for contributions to debates. It is in the open debate between position and opposition that Norwegian society is being shaped. In particular, I would like to thank the representatives who are now coming out of Stortinget. Thank you for your effort! I would also like to thank the media for their cooperation in bringing our debates to the electorate. The harvest's big choice lies ahead of us. Together, we should use the time ahead to inspire the voters to conclude on the democratic processes and the further development of the People's Rule. After today's meeting has been cancelled, representatives are invited to sign the Protocol of the Storting, which has been published on the table at the bottom of the hall. Finally, on behalf of myself and the presidency, let me thank each of the representatives for their good cooperation throughout the period. It's been a pleasure! I hereby declare the negotiations in the 157th anniversary of the end. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
