ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e148	Representatives Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Are Health, Borghild Tenden, Jørund Rytman, Laila Gustavsen, Per Olaf Lundteigen, Dag Ole Teigen, Øyvind Halleraker, Laila Davøy, Laila Marie Reiertsen, Harald T. Nesvik, Torfin Opheim, Sonja Mandt, Steinar Gullvåg, Sven Roald Hansen and Vigdis Giltun, who have been licensed, have again taken seats. The former deputy of the West-Agder County, Janne Fardal Kristoffersen, has again taken up the seat. From the meeting alternate representative of Oslo, Lotte Grepp Knutsen, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget during the remainder of Truls Wickholm’s leave from 3 June to 21 June, for reasons of well-being. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternate for Oslo, Khalid Mahmood, is proposed to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Khalid Mahmood is present and will take his seat. Four permit applications are available: from 3 June to 5 June in order to take part as rapporteur of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe in Bosnia from the representatives of Line Henriette Hemdal, Morten Höglund and Henning Skumsvoll on leave from 3 June to 5 June in order to take part in the meeting of the Arctic Parliamentary Committee on Svalbard These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of the Vest-Agder County, Tor Sigbjørn Utsugnogn, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on the 4th and 5th of June under the permission of the representative Henning Skumsvoll, for welfare reasons. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For the West-Agder states: Tor Sigbjørn Utsugnogn and Kjell Ivar Larsen For Akershus County: Tom Staahle For the province of Hordaland: Torkil Åmland For Eastfold County: John Thune – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Tom Staahle, Torkil Åmland and John Thune are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e279	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office for Stortinget's meetings this week. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President proposes Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of this week’s meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e289	At the request of the Presidency, the case No. 1 and 2 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e314	Today, the Presidency is tabling amendments, including: in the Grand Magnificent Compensation Act and the Grand Magnificent Compensation Regulation. The Presidency proposes changes to the rules on holiday pay, the establishment of a control centre for the administration of Stortingen relating to remuneration and retirement benefits, and changes to the rules relating to the cover of travel expenses. I would like to say something brief about the various suggestions – first holiday money. It is quite exceptional that an elected representative resigns from the Storting or is granted leave from his term of office, without he/she joining the government. One reason for this has been that a representative has been appointed or employed in a post which has led to him no longer being eligible as a major representative, cf. The Constitution § 62. In addition, it has been exceptional for large-scale representatives, who have received a significant international position or position, to be granted leave for the term of office, even if the position has not formally affected the ability of the representative to vote. The Presidency considers that an elected representative of the Grand Duchy, who resigns the Grand Duchy during a term of office or is granted leave for the term of office, should be paid holiday money in connection with retirement or leave. So for control: the board's administration had in the former pension law, like, among other things. the regulated waiting allowance, allowing applicants to obtain information on their income relationships. It entered in 2009 when the then presidency proposed such a control center. The Presidency stressed that it was not such that the Administration of Storting should obtain information on all applications. A former contributor who is applying for retirement benefits and/or compensation is obliged to provide the necessary information for himself. It is important, however, that the Administration of the Storting can control the income conditions of matters relating to retirement benefits and after-payments under the Storing Compensation Act Sections 8 and 9. It is not new that the authorities granting benefits to citizens have an opportunity to verify the information provided by the applicant. Corresponding provisions exist, inter alia: in the State Pension Fund Act, the Government Pension Act and the National Social Security Act. Former representatives of aggregates should be subject to the same control rules in the case of applications for retirement benefits and/or reimbursements to which other citizens are subject in the case of social security benefits. The Presidency believes it is important that this rule is clearly set out in the law, including the conditions for obtaining information. So for travel coverage: the Presidency proposes clarification of the rights of the wholesalers to travel coverage. It is stated in the Basic Law § 65 that depositors are to be paid expenses for travel to and from Stortinget. The proposal clarifies that the weekly travel of representatives to and from the Grand Duchy is to be defined as professional travel. Storing representatives who are required to stay outside the home for the purpose of their employment may cover one trip to and from the Stortinge this week. If you have children under 19, you get two weekly trips covered. The size covers the transport costs of professional travel. It is a fundamental principle that in the exercise of their functions, all grossing-up representatives should be placed as economically as possible, irrespective of their place of residence. No matter where in the country the representatives live, the weekly trip to and from Stortinget shall not entail costs for the representative. In other words, it shall not be more expensive for a representative from Northern Ireland than a representative from Oslo to meet at Stortinget. Therefore, the costs of commuting, repatriation, repatriation and other expenses incurred in the absence of representatives from the place of residence are reimbursed. However, despite the fact that the travel to and from Storting does not entail the cost of the representatives, some have been taxed for parts of the journey. On the basis of the principle of equality of representatives, the Presidency is now asking the Grand Duchy to amend the travel rules for representatives who, for the sake of the deliberations, have to live outside the place of residence. The Presidency is committed to clear rules for travel coverage of representatives. The proposed change does not entail any change in the coverage of food allowance or lodging on the journey. Nor does the change entail any change in the coverage of food allowances by representatives during their stay in the commuting house, and the daily journeys between the dwelling and the commuting dwelling and the Storting are not affected. I would like to stress that in recent years, the Stortinget has made several changes to the schemes of the representatives of big business in order to ensure clear rules for the representatives, to remove special arrangements, to make all revenues visible and to avoid payment of compensation at the same time as other income. Together with the changes in the pension scheme, there has been a tighter and more holistic regulation of the arrangements of the representatives that do not contain any random benefits. It's tightened up on the use of commuting homes. The previous daily diet plan, also called daily allowance, has been abolished. It has been tightened up in the after-paid schemes. Retirement benefits are no longer granted automatically. The period of receipt of a post-employment allowance, formerly expected compensation, has been reduced from three to a maximum of one year and the benefit itself has been reduced to 66 pst. of annual compensation. There are rules on curtailment in both retirement and replacement benefits in order to avoid such benefits being received at the same time as ordinary remuneration or remuneration. The transitional financial arrangements when representatives go from the Grand Duchy to the Government and vice versa are coordinated. With these amendments, the Presidency has completed the current period of review and cleanup of the arrangements for representation that have passed over several years. It has provided clear legislation and tidy arrangements. I believe that Stortinget is well served with the result of the review, and I am pleased that we have completed this work. In this context, the unanimous recommendation of the Presidency is recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e335	SV has always been concerned that wholesalers should have as far as possible the same arrangements as others for social security, taxes and other benefits. For SV, this is an important principle which should contribute to the legitimacy and respect of the populace. Presidency and enlargement have over time shown the ability to clean up different special arrangements, and that is something that SV is happy about. However, we do not agree with the proposal that is being put forward today. The intention of the proposal is simplification, and we understand that, but we should not solve this by making other player rules for staging representatives than for others. We see that it may be difficult to distinguish between work trips and home trips, but it is a challenge that some others also have. I don't think this is an adequate argument to deviate from the principle of non-discrimination. Therefore, SV will vote against the proposal for a decision to the regulation on the amendment of the Grand Duchy Decree, the coverage of travel expenses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e344	The last speaker expresses a misunderstanding from the beginning to the end of the post. I agree with some, namely that the Stortinget has made a number of changes — during this period, not least — that give equal treatment to other professionals in Norway. It is important for the understanding of Storting's work and for respect for it. So far I agree, but the misunderstanding lies in the fact that the intention of this change is a simplification, and the misunderstanding is also in the expression «home travel». No, this change has two reasons: firstly, to equate representatives living at home, for example: in Oslo and Akershus, and those who have to go home, that they may be equal in tax. That is not the case today. Then there's a misunderstanding in the term "home trips" that it's just to visit the family and come home. In reality, today part of the work of a politico representative, who is also a politician, is going home to visit his home district, his professional organization, his professional organisation, his party team, etc. In my view, it is an equally important part of the big business to care for their home territory and their voters as being on the Stortinget, in fact. If you are elected to represent the population, trust is demanded from those who are at home, and that trust must be maintained. The reality today is that there are tax inequalities treated. On the representative from the Nordic countries, for example: on their return trip, other conferences in their own country — it is quite a large state, and it requires a lot of travel — the same representative is treated more taxably by visiting Hordaland on a professional trip to visit a party team, a seminar or a conference there. That is the case, and the different treatment is corrected by this change. So, all the trips you make to visit party teams, whether they're at home or away, whether they're here or there, are treated equally for tax purposes. That is also why there is a unanimous presidency behind this position.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e353	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e369	Today, the theme is dedicated to human rights in Norwegian society, not somewhere in the big world. I address this issue because I believe that we need to work to ensure that respect for human rights in Norway is more than just a festivities. In the wealthiest country in the world, I have become acquainted with many, but especially one story resulted in that I have wanted to put human rights under debate. The Act on Strengthening the Position of Human Rights in Norwegian Law entered into force in 1999. With international human rights instruments incorporated in Norwegian law, it should in principle be possible to be sure that respect for human rights is well respected in Norway. The intention was good, but the reality, as I get it presented from countless, is unfortunately quite another. They have become so many that I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice is meeting for discussion and debate on this today. No one fully knows the extent of human rights violations in Norway. In Norway, our legal bases are built so that we are willing to give much power to public authorities. Those people who are set to enforce power, we believe that they have practical knowledge and competence about human rights. Many report a second day of life where knowledge is rather small or absent. Maybe that's because we're a small country where everyone trusts each other and believes that most of what public authorities do is good and good. Probably a lot of this is also right, but we can get better. Even where it is claimed that a breach occurs and it is documented, there are few or no consequences for the public official or woman, reported and reported by several. It feels like dangerous and destructive for one to go to battle with what we call the system. Nor does it improve the fact that the person or persons who experience a human rights violation are in a very vulnerable situation. What can be done? Human rights are primarily a matter of ensuring leadership at all levels at all levels of government. But it is also the case that it is big business and government that have the top responsibility. It's not easy to find out where to turn. Many of the requests I have received point out the need for Norway to set up an independent body for human rights. The same points out with all clarity that there should be a clear address where advice, guidance and instructions for just the right address can be obtained. Violation of these rights, including individual cases, is a violation of Paragraph 110(c) of the Constitution and of Article 1 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Such violations affect as such the entire Norwegian, but also the international, society. There is no review body where human rights violations are reported in Norway, and even for people with resource strength, it is very demanding and difficult to find out how to address this complaint. There's a reason to think that the dark numbers are there, and maybe they're big too. Often it is the weakest in society who are being violated by their human rights, or there are aliens who do not know the legal system, and who are being sent out of our country before anyone hears of their history – some claim it. Even in a long time living in our country, it is difficult to orient itself. Where do you go when, as a disabled person, you do not have access to sound and speech, so that you can have a life span, that you can participate in the organisational life, the social debate and political activities – or at school, where areas and facilities are not adapted to your disability? For deaf people and people with reduced mobility, the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, Article 29, is to be ratified this spring – it will be done, but only after five years of trial. Where can I get information where to go? Is this for County or the Civil Ombudsman? If you are disabled, it is for the Minister of Labour. If there is discrimination, the path goes to the Equality Ombudsman or the Minister for Gender Equality. If the child is not granted human rights, it is to the Children’s Ombudsman or the Minister for Children’s and Family Affairs. If there is a serious breach, the answer is the judiciary and the Minister of Justice, and if it is the situation in our prisons, it is also to the same minister. So if there are far bigger child protection issues affecting families, it is for the Minister for Children and Family Affairs. Many have reacted strongly to the fact that Norway has not yet acceded to the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which ensures a complaint mechanism. At least as serious are the allegations that Norway does not respect the international human rights instruments that have already been signed – they are also serious. We're being looked at in the cards by the United Nations. Norway has ended up in a situation where we can risk losing our A status in the UN human rights work, if we do not comply to a greater extent with the requirements of what is referred to as the UN Paris principles. But few people know the so-called Paris principles and what a human rights commission really does – despite the fact that almost 20 years ago the UN unanimously approved the Paris principles and encouraged all countries to establish independent and powerful human rights commissions – based on the broad commitment of civil society – to monitor and prevent human rights violations. Thus, there is no review body to which human rights violations are reported, and even for resource-intensive people, it is almost impossible to find out how a complaint can be addressed. I know that the Council of State can't answer a single question here. For those who had to listen and believe that there is probably another country I'm talking about – far from it – unfortunately. Anbar's history illustrates a frightening disclaimer from all the institutions, but also non-governmental organisations take responsibility. Fear The children do not go into individual matters, and Amnesty prioritizes other areas rather than fighting for the fundamental human rights of a young child. The story of little Anbar would hardly give Norway trampling in the UN. Eight months old, Anbar has already been subjected to violations of his most fundamental rights, without anyone taking responsibility. It started already in Mother's life. While Mother was in custody, she was sent to the hospital and asked to confirm that she had come to have an abortion. Mother was referred by the prison doctor, unwittingly and knowingly. The events were explained that this had to be due to a misunderstanding. Anbar was born under strict police guard. Three days old she was subjected to the next attack: in complete despair, Mother was sent back to prison in my home state, the country's most modern, while Anbar was placed in foster homes. In any other country in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, Anbar would be with her mother in an organized prison. If my mother was Norwegian, she could have applied for a replacement or a caretaker sourrogati in a nursing home. I have made enquiries with a number of countries, which are naturally comparable to Norway, using the Survey Section of the United Kingdom, and there are organised units in prisons for precisely this type of situation. The incriminations against Anbar continued. The birth certificate was issued without father’s name, although the parents were married and there was evidence of this. It would take four months to get a certificate with both parents' names. Four months old, Anbar was finally reunited with her mother, when her mother was clearly found free and released on the spot in the courtroom after the eleven months of custody. Anbar was left to Mom, without papers, without a place of residence, without money for living and without any kind of follow-up from child protection. During the medical service, Mother was denied psychological follow-up after traumas in prison — and long before — despite her health status being crucial to the quality of care she can provide Anbar. The Child Protection Agency refused to stay at a nursing home, where Anbar could become acquainted with Mom in a safe environment. Anbar still has no nationality papers – and she's here in the country. The parents are of foreign origin. Father is a European citizen and is imprisoned in Norway. So Mother is released after eleven months of custody. The case has stopped because the police, despite several enquiries, have not sent Dad's ID card to the embassy. According to the Children’s Act, Anbar has the right to contact both parents, but in practice this does not apply to her. Since mother is not allowed to visit her father in prison, she is prevented from facilitating contact with her father. Child protection claims that they do not have the capacity to follow Anbar, and the prison child coordinator does not get involved in the case either. The child ombudsman chooses to give priority to work with children and health. The history of Anbar illustrates a frightening discharge from all institutions, but also non-governmental organisations take responsibility for fighting for the fundamental human rights of a young child. So without any interested individuals, Anbar's story would not have been known.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e426	I would first like to thank Mr Schou for the interpellation. There has been — and is still — increasing attention on human rights issues in Norway. I think that's fundamentally good. Knowledge and awareness of human rights enable us – as we should – to think rights protection across different sectors. The representative has asked me two questions about the ability of ordinary people to enforce their human rights. These are closely related to each other. If I were to give a very brief answer, it had to be that the arrangements we have can actually capture a lot of the human rights violations that happen. I would say that therefore there does not seem to be any clear need to develop new arrangements. This I'll say a little bit more about now. But before I do, I'll still mention two things so that you don't misunderstand me. One is that I do not mean to say that there are no human rights challenges in Norway. The authorities regularly receive recommendations on how things can be done better, both from civil society here in Norway and from international bodies. These are recommendations that we must and should take seriously, and that we try to follow up with adjustments to both law and practice, when necessary. The second thing I want to say is this: it's probably true that people who are in a vulnerable situation can experience it as hard to fight against the public. These may well feel that they have good help, as the representative is concerned about their question. These are real experiences that people have, and that we have to take seriously. At the same time, I believe that the best way to do something about this is not necessarily to set up a new complaint mechanism, as the representative has suggested in some contexts. The interpellant also spent a lot of time on an individual matter, and I asked for an understanding that I could not go into this specific matter. The question as to whether the conditions of custody are met is, as you know, decided by the courts. The Court of First Instance has to assess whether imprisonment appears to be a proportionate intervention and will, in this context, among other things. take into account the health conditions and responsibilities of the person concerned. The action to be taken against a child who is in a situation where the health and development of the child may be harmful is determined by the protection of the child and an essential focus shall be placed on finding measures that are in the best interests of the child. So to existing complaints schemes. When we think about the enforcement of human rights, it is easy to think first of all about court proceedings. There is no doubt that an opportunity we have in Norway is that we can ask the Court to decide a specific case, even when it affects human rights. At the same time, the danger of having to pay the costs may be deterrent. It is also the case that court proceedings can be time-consuming. So let me rather point to the other tools that will enforce their human rights have. It is natural to start by mentioning the right of appeal under the Administrative Act. This is an opportunity you have in most cases where you think a public body has broken your human rights. In a complaint case, a person could be involved precisely in believing that a decision violates one's human rights. We are all aware of the fact that several international human rights conventions have been made Norwegian law, and according to the Human Rights Act, the important conventions are to go ahead of other Norwegian legislation. It is of course intended that the administration should not make mistakes and that human rights should not be violated. It is, however, that those who believe that their human rights have been violated also have other possibilities than the exercise of the right of appeal. There are several independent bodies intended to exercise the rights of individuals in meeting management. Of course, important in this context is Storting's own ombudsman. The Civil Ombudsman deals with complaints from persons who are subject to fault or injustice by the administration. Section 3 of the Civil Ombudsman Act states that one of his tasks is to contribute to the management ‘respecting and safeguarding human rights’. I also think it is natural that I mention the authorities of discrimination. The Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the Equality and Discrimination Department are intended to be a real alternative to the courts, and the handling of a complaint by the Ombudsman is free of charge and normally takes less time than if the Court had dealt with the case. I could also mention the Children's Ombudsman, the Data Protection Agency and other bodies, but these are bodies that are well known here as well, and I don't go into any detail about these. What I'm trying to come up with – which, of course, is not to teach anyone about the arrangements we have, they all know, as I said, well – is that the challenges we should face are not better if we make more complaints. This I think I have good coverage to say. Many here are probably aware that recent work has been in progress on changes in Norway’s national human rights institution. Of those who have been involved in the work, no one has mentioned the need for a new body of complaint – neither the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman or the voluntary organisations, which have made representations. On the other hand, they refer to the need for an accessible body: to have a low-threshold offer to guide individuals about the already existing schemes. This brings me to my last and important points. Initially, I said that people who are in a vulnerable situation can experience it as hard to fight against the public. These can experience that they need good helpers. What I meant to say is that this kind of challenge, which is serious and real, is not captured by the creation of a new complaint body. Instead, we have to work on the arrangements we have, and make sure that these become visible and effective low-threshold offers. I'll take an example. Above that, I was in the court of appeal and that a complaint could be made against a violation of human rights. Taking human rights seriously in the administration and having knowledge of human rights in the ordinary administrative work can certainly make us more attractive. I could do another example. For those who find it difficult to know where to turn, perhaps because of language problems or because they have no knowledge of the Norwegian system, we can have better targeted information measures. Guidance on different forms of complaint, both national and international, will include, inter alia: be an important task of such a new national human rights institution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e466	I understand that the Council of States does not want to go into individual matters, but nevertheless it is the individual matters and the individual person's meeting with our society and with our organs. It's in the individual meetings where our policies and human rights, with the opportunity to find out, we're actually up to the exam. So in a sense, I would probably like the Council of State to recognise more fully that it is where it should work, that it is where it might also fail. And I've described one of those things -- about little Anbar -- where I think we as communities crossed. It is good that the Council of State points to a low-threshold offer. I agree very well with that, but there must be one address. All the agencies that the Council of State went through, and that I have also affected, illustrate with all clarity that there is a complex state that people face in vulnerable situations. Moreover, most people do not know that the fragmented and complex state is so complex, but believe that there has to be one address where it is possible for the individual to obtain advice, help and guidance. I'm aware that the government has presented Prop. 159 L for 2012–2013 – it is currently being treated in the Stortinget – which strengthens the role of the Civil Ombudsman as a coordinating body. But I'm also aware that the volunteer organizations are not satisfied solely with it, all the time the Civil Ombudsman is not supposed to have a monitoring role in knowing how much human rights violations are in Norway, how many there are. In this respect, the UN recommendation to give the role to one existing institution, which monitors the development of human rights in Norway, is not fulfilled. I'll just continue briefly with little Anbar's case. The civil officer referred by contact to the wrong appeal body. Thus, Norway’s national human rights institution, which has a mandate to provide advice on complaints, has not responded — not even so. It shall strengthen to resist such a fatigue strategy. I have asked – both to the Minister of Justice and to the Minister of Children – questions about this specific matter, but the answers are hidden behind a reference to legal paragraphs and that you cannot go into individual matters. So in the meantime, no one cares about Anbar's legal certainty. For the first country of Norway, as I see it, it becomes a shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e479	Once again, I would like to stress that the interpellant addresses important questions in its interpellation, and that I agree with her that it is in the face of the individual issues that policy is often shaped. However, a Council of State shall be vigilant in order to enter into these and view them in concrete circumstances without having a full overview of the cases. I'll be careful with that. I would also like to take into account that the various complaint mechanisms we have must work as intended, and that where errors occur, there is also a basis for complaint and correction. I can only stress once again that with my answer I have not intended to underestimate that people who are in a vulnerable situation can experience it as hard to fight against the public, and that these can experience themselves boasted just having good helpers to assist them. It can be not least people who are deprived of freedom, and it can also be others. These are real experiences, and we have to take them seriously. However, my point in today's answer was that setting up a new human rights complaint mechanism in itself does not have to be the right way to meet such challenges, and that we need to make sure that the existing mechanisms become better known to those concerned. We have to make sure that the government gives good guidance, and we have to work towards, for example: a lack of Norwegian knowledge does not become a barrier to reaching the system. These are in no way simple challenges, and it is important to work with both simplifications and improvements in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e490	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising the debate on human rights here in the main hall today. Human rights have a prominent place in Norwegian law. In Norway, in the international context, we are often promoted as the country with a solid protection of human rights. Norway, together with other countries, has undertaken to respect human rights as established in international conventions. In 1994, the Grand Duchy adopted a new § 110c of the Constitution which states that the authorities must respect and guarantee human rights. The requirement that the Norwegian authorities should ‘respect and ensure’ the rights implies that a person acting on behalf of the State should not both infringe the rights and, if necessary, actively take action to prevent infringements. This paragraph was followed up by the decision to strengthen the position of human rights in Norwegian law. By this law, the European Convention on Human Rights, the EMC, and the United Nations Conventions on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the ESC, and the Civil and Political Rights, SP, respectively, were made Norwegian law. In addition, the law states that provisions of the incorporated conventions shall, in the event of conflict, prevail over other laws. In those cases where individuals consider that they are exposed to human rights violations, they may refer their case to the European Court of Human Rights – after that the case has been dealt with in the Norwegian Court of Justice. The EMK is dealing with complaints from individuals and will be able to test whether there has been a breach of one of their rights in the European Convention on Human Rights. The Norwegian population has been largely spared serious violations of human rights in recent times. This is due to a number of factors: stable democratic political system, proximity to decision-makers, a solid national economy, balanced distribution of goods, high levels of equality, low levels of corruption, highly educated population, high levels of participation in social life through associations, political parties and voluntary organisations, good access to media and limited size of organised crime. Compared to other countries, we have a high focus on following human rights, but we know, however, that many people in Norway have been injured, and they are asking for help to determine whether there has been a breach in their case of Norway's international human rights obligations. The challenges these people face must be taken seriously. In Norway, what we now consider to be fundamental human rights has been violated throughout history, not least in relation to persons belonging to minorities. The Norwegian Centre for Human Rights at the University of Oslo has built up and maintained a competence in this field that is of great importance for Norway's work on human rights and democratisation in many countries, but also at home. There is now work, as also mentioned by the Council of State, to change this national human rights institution. The UiO considers that the role of a driving and supervisory body as a national institution is incompatible with the role of the university. In the process of conversion, the University of Oslo, or this Centre for Human Rights, has not called for a new Board of Appeal, as proposed by the interpellant. I support the Minister of Justice when she refuses to set up a new type of complaint mechanism – which the interpellant believes will help people who believe they have been subjected to violations of human rights. The Minister of Justice referred to the various arrangements we already have today: administrative appeals and ombudsmen's institutions. I am pleased that she is opening up some improvements to ensure that these become visible and more effective low-threshold services. We need to make sure that the public gives good guidance and has good knowledge of human rights, and we need to work so that someone's lack of Norwegian knowledge does not become a barrier to reaching the system. As I said earlier in the post, human rights are set above Norwegian law if they do not match. We as legislators have a special responsibility to ensure that new legislation is consistent with human rights and that central human rights conventions are incorporated into Norwegian law. Human rights are the world's most important principle. It's a principle we need to protect and work for, internationally and also here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e518	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the interpellant for addressing an important issue regarding the position of human rights in Norway. I think it is important to focus more on this, because the human rights issue is often the position of the small person and individual citizen in relation to the large systems and in relation to the public, which has gained a significant amount in Norway. As we know, Norway is at the forefront of international human rights, and we want to be a major force in the world when it comes to human rights. The question then arises whether there is enough focus on the position of human rights in Norway. I think the answer to that is no. It has been shown that we Nordics are often a little naive and believe that the situation in Norway is much better than in other countries, because we believe in our own country and system and each other. We probably don't have enough knowledge about the situation, and we're a nation and a people who are significant system trust. We have great faith that the public will follow the rules they have to follow. That's why I probably don't believe this as much as what the representative Ljunggren made visible in the last post. In the years I've had the pleasure of being a big-time representative, and not least as a member of the Justice Committee of Stortinge, I've received numerous enquiries from single-citizens who feel that their rights are strongly violated. I think the proportion of enquiries has increased quite a lot in recent years. Many people experience that the public does not listen well enough to the challenges they face and the problems they face in everyday life. It's hard to get in the system. Even those who are signed, who are lawyers, also feel that it can be a challenge when I'm going to have my meetings with the public systems. There are issues of human rights here, but there is also a limit to breaches of administrative rules. It's not just a kind of clear violation of legislation like the EMK and the Human Rights Act. Breaking public guidance is probably more frequent than what we as legislators know. As has been said earlier in the debate, this greatly affects the poor resources of society, but is also demanding for resource strength. A problem that I believe has become an increased number of enquiries with the undersigned about is the number of people who feel wrong are convicted in the courts. Many of these feel that the courts have not listened well enough to the explanations they have had. Many people feel that the courts are too faithful to the system, and many also feel that there is a flaw in the system, i.e. that there is a lack of a place where those who meet the wall in the courts can turn and get help – perhaps not more than that they need to explain the system, why the judge thought so, and why the judgment was that way. Maybe the courts aren't good enough to guide you afterwards. Legal aid is under considerable pressure. Going to a lawyer costs a lot. The Resumption Commission has lost confidence in many. My question is whether the Stortinge Ombudsman for administration can be given increased and extended responsibilities in relation to these issues as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e535	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important question, a question I think we should have discussed a lot more in the Stortinget, and which I think has ended up outside the political agenda, while it really should have been there much more strongly in recent years. To start internationally, I notice that all human rights violations pointed out in Norway are sent back to us ten times stronger when we act abroad. When I talk to my sister party members around Europe who fight for human rights, for example. in Russia, it is that the abuses you see from public authorities are often justified by schemes in the Western world. For example, when Russia now introduces a system in which all NGOs with foreign aid should have the title of foreign spies, all these systems are based on systems such as: The United States is micro-formatted, and then it is multiplied by ten and introduced into Russian legislation. This is how we see that the violations of human rights that we have in our countries cause us to weaken internationally in our identification of major violations of human rights abroad. And then this is the little man's fight against the system. Very much of the rights legislation here related to, for example: health, kindergarten and all the other parts of society often make it the most resource-efficient to cash in their rights. In the case of human rights violations, that principle does not apply. The times that we see human rights violations being pointed out, it's very often the weakest, the lowest on the rank ladder -- yes, the examples that the interpellant here picked up -- that's the case. We have a number of judges against us in the European Court of Human Rights in Norway, which is very serious, I believe, and which should have been more attentive than mere headshaking by state councils when we are convicted, such as. in the case of political advertising, where the Minister of Culture smiled and shook our head when we were convicted of violations of freedom of expression in Norway. I also think it is a great weakness under today's government that responsibility for human rights has been powdered, as all departments are responsible for everything, while for example. under the central government, the responsibility for human rights rested with one Council of States, which also held it a part of its title to be responsible for the follow-up of human rights. So I believe that one of the things that has really weakened us lately is that we no longer have any national institution for human rights, since the University of Oslo has actually lost that position. There I refer to the proposal for a representative of 68 S, from Borghild Tenden and myself, which is about the creation of a new such institution. That we don't have it weakens us both nationally and internationally. Then we have a number of complaints, we have the Civil Ombudsman, and we have a legal state that works well in very many areas. But it's tough when you get these systems against you, and it's hard to resist when you have to claim your rights. When you, as the examples from the interpellant show, are among the really weakest and least resource-intensive people in our country, it's extra sore to see how human rights are prioritised that way, because people don't have the power to penetrate the systems. So I think we need to have more streamlined systems, we need to have a clearer distribution of responsibilities in a government – who is responsible for following up. We need to get a national human rights institution back as soon as possible. Then we hope to support the proposal that we have put forward, which I believe is dealt with in the Foreign Affairs Committee, and which gives us the opportunity to exercise a pressure, so that Norway will actually have a heavy external dimension and a way of dealing with its citizens, which means that we are promised human rights both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e552	I would like to thank you for the debate and for what is suggested by improvements. I have not proposed any new complaint mechanisms. If you look at the final questions of the interpellant, it's up to us to be able to limit/improve. Where do I go when I think there is a violation of my human rights, and who is clearly responsible? It had kept a long way in the individual matters I have seen, if those who received the enquiry took their responsibility. When the Council of State says that she is concerned that the public gives good guidance, I agree with her view of it, but from my point of view – and there are many of them – the following has therefore chosen not to take responsibility: child protection service social service criminal services County and the police in my own county, Eastfold Children's Protection Unit in Eastfold County Municipality of Oslo Centre for Peace and Human Rights Human Rights Watch Amnesty International Norway Saved Children Norway UNICEF Norway Children's Ombudsman Civil Ombudsman Foreign Minister Minister Minister for Justice Minister for Children Norway's National Human Rights Institute Norwegian Centre for Human Rights All of these have been contacted. Honor for the fact that there are individuals with resources, and in this particular case, which I understand in a way cannot be led to squares and debate, there has been particularly one resource person, but also resource people around him, who have made all these enquiries, on the basis that we should ensure a single person in the most vulnerable situation, a mother’s child, who is born in Norwegian prison, while mother is in prison and is released after eleven months. All these bodies — if asked, if asked — are those who are the public Norway, who meet the individual, who meet those who deal with their case and who have either not answered, or have not taken responsibility on the basis of what was there, having regard to different types of justification for different denominations. We don't know if we're on the exam in Norway, because we actually don't have an instance to monitor. I am very pleased that the Civil Ombudsman is given a clearer role in being the institution and the place where you can turn, so as to provide guidance on where you can go. But it'll still be that way that we don't know if we're on the exam. In my individual case, as I have mentioned, I must say, without having the «sensory right», that I believe that we deleted. So in 2013, in Norway, we have an improvement potential at least to ensure that someone takes responsibility, and that it is clear who will take it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e616	We have been shown, in a different way today, how a modern welfare society like ours is both complex and at times complicated to deal with, and that it is therefore necessary to include all good proposals for assessment also when considering the possibility of further strengthened human rights protection. Both as regards the remedies available and as regards the design of the rules and the functioning of the various Ombudsman’s arrangements, this is the case. As the inter-pellant pointed out, the Civil Ombudsman is given a new mandate, which is important in this area as well. However, I have to say that in practice Norway meets the requirements for the so-called ‘A’ status. We don't have a full score, but we're working specifically to fix this right now. It is a status that we know is assigned by the International Committee on National Institutions for Human Rights. A lot is therefore happening in this area, and although much of this work is being followed up in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, more have been involved — including myself — in the question of how changes in Norway’s national human rights institutions are now being followed. A working group led by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is investigating this. This will be a report that will be consulted in a short time. If that's right, I've also heard that today's report from attorney Frode Elgesem will be delivered. This concerns the issue of the consequences of any Norwegian ratification of the United Nations Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. So we will obviously have the opportunity to discuss how to improve the challenges we have, on a later occasion also in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e627	That is when the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e643	The background to this interpellation is that the facts show that there are very different practices when it relates to the use of counterparts in the 18 counties that we have in Norway. Since the government wants the statesmen to have an even stronger role when it contradicts the debt, by coordinating all the statesmen, the Progress Party believes that it is important to get to the bottom of why there are so different practices from state to state. During the years 2008-2012, 11,037 construction and regulatory plans have been launched on a hearing. In the same period, the 18 counties of the country have been promoting the equivalent of 2 005 of these plans. That means that 18.2 pst. by municipal construction and regulation plans have had to go through a new procedure before they could possibly be re-dispatched and put into operation. So in one of five things, the County has seen its foot down against local planes. Correspondents of the State make up 58.7 pst. of all the contradictions. There is no doubt that, overall, the county officials are the most active. The use of countersigns will delay both road construction and building. That's why the Progress Party, and it's always meant that contradictions have to be limited to an absolute minimum. The variation in the percentage contradicts that between the counties is very large. In Buskerud has 35.5 pst. the construction and regulation plans have been met with contradictions, while in Oslo and Akershus a total of 9.2 pst. by the cases met with counterclaims. For Oslo part, the number is 5.1 pst. During the period 2008-2012, 998 plans were broadcast from municipalities in Oslo and Akershus, and 92 were met with countersigns from Fylksåmen. At the same time, 778 planes were sent out on a ring in Buskerud, and 276 of these were met with countersigns from County. Looking at all the contradictions in Oslo and Akershus during the time period, one can see that of the 998 construction and control plans that were sent out on the listener, 203 were met with a total contradiction. So that's going to be 20.3 pst. The plan met with countersigns. Under half of these contradictions came from County. The county council had a total of 45,3 pst. Looking at all the contradictions in Buskerud during the time period, one can see that of the 778 construction and control plans that were sent out on the ring, 465 of the plans were met with contradictions. So it's almost 60 pst. - 59.7 pst. – by the planes were met with countersigns. Nearly six out of ten of these countersigns came from the County of Buskerud. From this we can clearly conclude that the County of Buskerud is considerably more often out with its countersignature than the County of Oslo and Akershus are. Since both the Council of State and I come from the West, it may also be possible to compare Western states, for there are also differences – significant differences. Here we see that the County of Hordaland is in one class separately, at least when it relates to the number of contradictions. In the period 2008–2012 was 28.6 pst. of all the plans for regulation and construction in Hordaland met with the countersign from Fylkesmannen. In Sogn and Fjordane the corresponding number is 7.3 pst. So there's four times the risk of being met with contradictions in Hordaland as it is in Sogn and Fjordane. The corresponding number from More and Romesdal is 12 pst. So the question is, why is it like that, and that's what's behind this interpolation. Laws and rules are the same from state to state. The people are the government's extended arm out in the state, and they represent the same government, and if one looks at the significant differences between Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane, I assume that the inhabitants of Hordaland are basically nothing worse to do than the inhabitants of Sogn and Fjordane, for example. The final report ‘Impact of the Opposition Institute on Local Self-Government’, such as Aplan Viak and Agenda Kaupang prepared for KS, shows that there is also widespread practice in warning of countersigns. This was also noted in NOU 2001: 7 Better urban and regional planning under the Planning and Building Act, and this was confirmed in the KS report. Even if the report takes into account the use of countersigns for the municipal plan or municipal plans, please also write: ‘there is reason to believe that the use of objection as a warning also applies here’. [[...]] Such notifications usually take place in whole or in part. The report shows that countersigns or countersigns are used to enter into dialogue with municipalities. I don't think the Council of State thinks that such a practice is justified and that this is how the counterinstitution should be used. Examples show that there's not necessarily a law or anything like this where the county is inside, but a lot of times, and as there's a lot of examples, there's an inconsistency between the county council and the local government when it comes to land use. One is simply inconsistent when it relates to land use, resulting in both countersignal and countersignal. Since the government has now proposed that the county council should have an even stronger role in the future when it contradicts the debt, by coordinating all the contradictions from other agencies, we, I and the Progress Party believe that it is very important to get the best possible knowledge of why there is so much difference in practice in the use of contradictions. Correspondence poses a major challenge and a major problem for many municipalities. They delay and stop, among other things, housing construction, and it makes many young people now tired of entering the housing market. Therefore, I hope that the Council of State will be able to give a clear answer as to why we have such a markedly different practice in Norway, and I hope that we will have a common sense of reality when it comes to this, which can help us to reduce the use of countersigns and also notices of countersigns, so that we can get up both the building and road construction in Norway. Here I mean that there is absolutely a need to clean up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e682	The representative Hageseter saw the light on an important and topical issue, which I am pleased to be able to answer. The Ministry of the Environment is reviewing the whole system of contradictions in the laws on planning and building and is looking at the potential for a more efficient system. The number of countersigns is one of the factors that have emerged in the debate on how to find targeted measures to improve and speed up planning processes. The numbers and statistics referred to in the question from the representative, Mr Hagesetter, have been obtained through the KOSTRA system and show the counterparts to the regulatory plans of the different counties in the years 2004 to 2011. Given the competence of the county councillors, according to the laws on planning and building, to countersign multiple subject areas, it is reasonable that there is some variation between the different counties when it comes to the number of countersigns. The themes of the country's tradesmen include: pollution issues such as noise and water quality, natural disasters, outdoor life, coordination of land and transport planning, purchasing centre policy and agriculture and forestry. The conditions to countersign the plan are that national or important regional interests are attached to each subject area. There are two reasons why the County Council in Buskerud differs from many contradictions – compared to the other counties – that we can identify as clear and explanatory. First, Buskerud has far more cabin projects in the mountains than most other counties. There are often administratively small mountain communities with large areas, where there are partly inadequate plans when dealing with statutory investigation themes such as snow-covered landscapes, open-air life, non-interventional areas, wild rain and other natural disasters. Knowledge of different values varies in mountain areas, and new knowledge will therefore emerge in connection with the development of regulatory plans. Secondly, the County of Buskerud follows the theme of 'noise' in line with the speeches of the annual mandate. Not all members have the capacity to follow up this theme as well. Noise is a heavy burden on many people in the country, and a national action plan on noise has been developed. Spatial planning is an important point, and it is therefore positive that the County actively follows up the noise problem. The situation in Buskerud is also that it is a municipality with a large area, limited level competence in some of them and often a little detailed municipal plans, while planning in Oslo and Akershus is characterized by a much better plan competence, better recording of values and more detailed municipal plans. It partly explains the large differences in the number of opponents, but it cannot explain everything. There are also other significant differences between individual states, on which the representative Hageseter was in his post, which do not match this picture. For example, Sogn and Fjordane are also a state with many very small municipalities, which can have some of the same challenges, though not the same housing pressure in all areas. And if one compares Oslo and Akershus to other populace areas, Oslo and Akershus come out particularly well, also compared to the counties of Rogaland, Hordaland or the South Tribes. Therefore, there are also good reasons for looking at what it is that it can stretch in those states that have a high degree of contradiction, but also the opposite: what is done well and right, and that makes planning processes work, where the part contradicts is particularly low? I should also mention that the County of Buskerud indicates that there is a marked decrease in the number of countersigns from 2011 to 2012. In 2011, there were some contradictions. 40 pst. of the regulatory plans, while falling to 25 pst. in 2012. According to the County Council, the municipalities now have a greater role to play in national policies in their plans. The number to which the call refers has appeared as part of the counterproject, which I have seen in the department and in the government. This brings us to a knowledge of both planning and contradiction practices and other variations that provide a basis for targeted action in the future. I am concerned that we should manage to reduce the number of countersigns, through better coordination and more knowledge-based planning. At the end of the article, let me say a few words about the most important themes or guidelines I have in that work: Firstly, it is important that countermeasures come early, i.e. the countersign will arrive at an early stage of the process, and there will be early involvement in the process from those instances that may be reluctant to countersign. Today, in fact, there is a very clear legal requirement that you take part in the process early in order to be able to countersign, and it's important that we make sure that it happens in reality, and that contradictions occur early in the process. I think most people will be aware that we can recognize it from our own work: anti-gravity options that come up early, that we might be eel-ridden and even good at getting in, but when someone comes up with something completely in the last turn, it can often create noise, irritation and problems for planning. The second theme is coordination. We have a pilot project in some states with it. It will be important, and in addition, we are now looking at whether there may be a direction to go in more general terms, as well as the pilot projects we are about to carry out in the future. Thirdly, it is important, as the report ordered by KS shows, and as mentioned above, that when there is a contradiction, it should be when necessary. It may therefore be important to ensure good documentation and to refer to the basis for a contradiction, so that it is clear that it is in line with the law and the guidance provided by national authorities when there is a contradiction. Fourthly, in our work on this, we will assess whether deadlines should be introduced at the different levels of administration, from the municipality to the Ministry of the Environment, in order to ensure a prudent and timely procedure. I would like to make it clear that urgent procedure is important, but good practice is also important. So I think a reasonable principle might be 'as fast as possible', but that one has to use the time needed to ensure a safe and good process. But we're assessing the question of temptations. Fifthly, it is also important to look at practice, as the representative Hageseter is well presented in his interpellation. And good practice is not something you can decide. But as part of this work, for years to come, it will be necessary to see if there can be an improvement in some states, while there are some states that do. And what I see in my work is that not only are there great variations in the number of countersigns, there are also great variations in how good the dialogue is between the individual counties and the municipalities in the county. There is no doubt that the way of working towards municipalities also varies between individuals, and that there is a need to look at the practice more closely. In the end, what we can say for sure is that when municipalities have good planning work, systematic overview and knowledge of their own municipality and take care of it in their planned work, there is a safe way to keep the number on track. In addition, if you have a good dialogue with other counter-signals, or if you would like to do so, you can also help to limit the number of counter-signs and ensure good planning in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e720	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Of course, I'm glad that the government is now starting a review of the counterinstitution, but I feel that it's a little overtime. I feel that the government is better at reviewing and planning, etc. rather than carrying out what emerges from the review. It's also starting to get a little late if you're going to get the number of contradictions in this magnification period. What is perhaps the most bad and which plagues the municipalities most is this with notice of contradictions, and that some statesmen use this to engage in dialogue with the municipalities. It's very unfortunate, because it delays a lot of projects and plans in the municipalities, and it also creates a lot of frustration. So here's a popular body that can adopt plans, and then it's stopped by the County. So one doesn't make sense, and it can take years. The long time and all of these contradictions take a very long time to plan, for example. housing and road construction, and it creates frustration among local politicians and especially among citizens. When it comes to temptation, I think it's a good idea that one has clear temptations. If you come with a counterclaim, a delay must be in which to return. And if one doesn't do it within the deadline, it falls away. This is because one should use the phrase 'as quickly as possible', and I feel again as a new disagreement between the municipality and the county on what is 'as quickly as possible'. I also want to refer to the numbers that I take instead when it concerns Hordaland and Sogn and Fjordane. So when it comes to plans for regulation and construction in Hordaland, it's going to be 28.6 pst. met with countersigns, while in Sogn and Fjordane the number is 7.3 pst. Governments don't talk so much about the extent to which there are some statesmen who are a little bit more obstinate after coming across contradictions than other statesmen – i.e. there are some statesmen who might be better off engaging in dialogue with municipalities and finding solutions, while there are others who are more likely to come up with many contradictions. It doesn't have to be just the county, it could be the whole administration and the whole county office that's faster to come up with countersigns than other county offices are.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e731	Let me just say first that in winter we started work on reviewing the counterinstitution. There was a warning in the housing message, as the representative quite correctly said. It'll be done in a short time, because it's an important work that we keep high pressure on. Let me just say a few things to the last article. The only thing I agree with is that I think it's right to go into the practice of the individual office and look at the wide variation that is. But my point is that I don't think one can decide for better practice. One may adopt some things, such as delays, coordination and who shall be responsible. But there is no doubt that it is interesting to look at the rather large differences in both the number of contradictions and in practice. I have noticed that the county I have grown up in, Sogn and Fjordane, is very well located, but also that Oslo and Akershus are very well located in this area. I also see from my dialogue with local and regional authorities that there is a great variation in the way in which work is done in individual posts, and how the dialogue between municipalities and local authorities is. When it comes to Hordaland, it may be important to bear in mind that speaking here is essentially before the current County of Hordland came to its office – just so it is said! So there's one theme I hear that I and the interpellant might have a slightly different view of, and that's the question of warning the opponent. I agree that a non-warranted opponent should come into dialogue with someone. It's not like you can call and tell me about contradictions just to talk to people. What I mean, on the other hand, is that it's quite wise that an instance that sees a plane going in a direction where one thinks it's going to produce contradictions, rather alerts it early than waiting. The NVE is systematically going through municipal plans and control plans around Norway to check against flooding and escape, and produces a lot of contradictions. Then it must be much better that they immediately see it, contact them and say that they have information that the building area is planned in a deferred area. Or if the county council sees that something is planned here in the vicinity of an important cultural memory, they report it at an early stage. The same applies to the County, with regard to the different interests they have. So my perception is that in order to get good processes, it's much better that an early owner find ways to tell about countermeasures than to wait, so that they come quickly and in the form of a formal counterclaim, with everything that comes with such a process. However, it should of course be when there are genuine demonstrable national interests [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e746	The President raised a small objection to the use of speaking time, which went a little over the line!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e749	I'm referring to the state council that says there's a review going on by the opposition institute and how we use it. That's very good, because it's probably over 20 instances that have the opportunity to raise objections. But from saying that there are a lot of people who object to using statistics, as the interpellant does here -- it doesn't always make the best picture of what's behind the numbers. There may be cross-interests. What exactly is the objection? Perhaps there may be objections concerning the interests of other municipalities. And it's not just the state against the municipality. So these numbers have to be broken down to see what's behind. Buskerud municipality, which has a lot of cabin construction, is a typical area where different groups want to look at the protection to be provided, and it will also provide different figures in the statistics. So if you just have the numbers, it doesn't always give you the best picture. If you look at an overview from 2011 of the area area of the municipal plan about who raised objections, it is County County with 37 pst, county with 26 pst. and the State Road Service with 13 pst. So it's the big players who have opinions about the plan. It's in areas that we're concerned about, and that we've politically said we're going to work on, and protect, like nature protection, outdoor life, landscapes and the beach zone. The same is true of the regulatory plans from the same period. 47 pst. of the objections raised by the State, 23 pst. came from the county and 14 pst. came from the State Road Service. Many of the same things went on when we looked at the area area of the municipal plan. It is a political will to look at and follow up on the beach zone and other things we have said are important to take care of. I think it's hard to say that you have to have a certain number of objections. It can be in press areas, areas of high activity. There are many different considerations to take – as I was told – both in the case of food soil and other areas where there is pressure on protection with regard to the land border, etc. A certain number of objections will be difficult to raise. So I think it's going to be fine now that the government has gone through this, looking at the system of the Law on Planning and Building and how the objections work, looking at the practice to see if anything points out as an abnormal practice in relation to what you had thought. Early reporting is also important for getting projects through. We are now working on the Stortinget with the housing report and getting through housing projects – that they do not stop – and that you can find out who is going to raise objections. Maybe a deadline can be a solution. The coordination of the various departments is very good – that they meet early, as the Council of State has also advised them to do, that they sit around the table, get through and get clarification early in the process. Then, of course, it's a challenge in terms of knowledge and competence that some of the municipalities are small. Cooperation may be facilitated, possibly with the State. I know that the County of many counties are early entering into a dialogue with the municipalities to review plans, so that they can find solutions early in the process and get projects started. This applies in particular to housing projects. For the government and the Workers' Party, building many more dwellings is a fanatic. So the opposition institute is most happy, because you have to have control of the political we have based on what is to be considered when things are to be built, but we also have to keep in mind that it is not a hindrance to the development of what we want.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e771	The interpellant Hageseter has traveled an important theme. Unfortunately for all of us, this topic is not new. We are some people who have highlighted how the planning processes in Norway are drawn out, and how they have strengthened the counter-reciprocity against those who want to get things – those who want to build the country, in the literalst sense. I tried to listen to the Council of State to see if there could be any special new signals, but that's the same thing as when we took this up with the Council of State Navarsete as responsible for housing policy. This should be looked at, evaluated and reviewed. It was even referred to the future housing announcement. Then came the housing message, which is now being treated in Stortinget, and there are also evaluation points. Now when we raise the question in the Chamber today, we hear that this is something the Council of State should look at. It's even referred to an internal process in the department, which we probably can't see at the end. I think there is reason to remind ourselves that objection is a brake pedal, a negative instrument in the sense that plans that are under development are delayed or stopped without anyone having discussed this obstruction – the fact that one takes better time to think through any ‘counterfeit’ – actually adds to the planning process the qualities that were imagined when one wrote this into the current planning and building law. On the other hand, what we can see very clearly is that in the period 2007-2010 – and now I refer to a study in KS – there are raised objections to between 42 pst. and 54 pst. of the area part of the municipal plans, municipal sub-plans. If we also expect notice of objection, a stop option, which – a passerby – is not permitted in the law, we will find that objections have been used in almost all municipal planning processes for the period 2007–2010. Of 140 municipalities that have revised or developed sub-assemblies during the period, 137 state that objections were notified or raised in the planning process. So it's simply a rule that stands in the way of sensible progress and progress in the planning processes. While the Council of State gets its office to take a closer look at practice, I thought I would suggest to the Council of State to look directly at the law, because it would have helped if the Council had sent a circular to the statesmen where he reminded them to take care of the home in the Law of Plan and Building § 5-4. It says: «The power to raise objections to draft plans by the State and regional bodies concerned may raise objections to proposals for the area and regulatory plan of the local authority plan on issues of national or significant regional importance.»; If you'd put a dot there, you'd have a pure cultivation of it that would make sense to use the opposition institute. Instead, the sentence of today's law continues: «or, for other reasons, which are essential for the matter matter matter of the competent body.» That means that it's clear to any body they think they're dealing with exciting things, saying that here you probably have to put bureaucratic judgment on local self-government. That's what's happening. So my call to the Council of State is to promote a very simple legislative change, namely to cut the sentence starting with ‘or’, so that we limit the opposition institute where it matters, either regionally or centrally. So one more thing: if you also asked that the opposition body briefly explain why you think you have fulfilled the law's premise that it should be of great regional importance or of national importance, you would have forced these bodies to think through this – whether there was a particular reason to stop these processes. The sum of this is that the housing building is failing. Then the Council of State has also made it a special sport to highlight municipalities that are different from what he wants, and to blame them for a regulation that the Council of State is passive and looks at not being changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e801	I felt like I had a little post on this matter. The interpellant comes from my home country, and there's been a big discussion about exactly the county and what he does and – after any thought – shouldn't have done. But I think it's important that you get a review of the counterinstitution. The debate on the State also needs to be nuanced. It is a democratic right that one has a planning tool in the municipality that lasts all. There were questions about why some states have more contradictions than others – why Buskerud has more than Oslo and Akershus, and why there are less contradictions in Sogn and Fjordane than in Hordaland. But there's nothing to talk about, because you have to look at how many exemptions there are in the states in question. Here, there are considerable differences, which can also explain some of the differences between Hordaland and, for example, Hordaland. Sogn and Fjordane. I read that in 2010 there were 1,600 dispensations from the law of the plan and the building, while in Westfold there were only 7. The difference between 1600 and 7, in Westfold, can't be explained. Hordaland should have had 10-20. Then I didn't find it strange that we have a county office that uses countersigns. It's all connected. I have a seat in local politics and I see that this is happening. One gives dispensations in a lot of cases. It is true that the party of progress, which belongs to Gjermund Hagesets, is driving in that direction. If we are to get rid of the contradictions, we need a policy that avoids dispensations, with good municipal plans that politicians adopt, and from which the same politicians should not dispensate in retrospect. Dispensations are a little bit democratic. It leads to a bit-by-bit extension. It gives precedent that can be unfair. This also leads to a very large amount of work for planning authorities, both regional and national. I agree with what has been said that early involvement is important, that there is a difference between municipalities that have a good cooperation with the county office, and not. The fact that a person should be able to notify a contradiction, I think that there is a need to interpret positively, because there is a part of this by being early in the process – that a person does not come in very late and there are big conflicts. In the end, I would like to point out that in politics we often say that the County is running with personal discretion. If it is that there is a county office around that runs with personal discretion and does not do what is the task, simply to secure national interests and that municipal decisions should be in line with the current law that we at Stortinget have decided, it must be adjusted. But that's the way to show that we're different in something, we have to take the composer and not the conductor. We can look at the national framework for planning and building law and so on, but we have to take responsibility for what we have decided on the Stortinget, and then we have to make sure that it is the practice carried out by the county office.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e820	I would like to thank those who have spoken in this debate. Now I don't feel sure that something is being done about the number of opponents with the government that is currently sitting. It's sad, but it wasn't exactly surprising. The party of progress is impatient. We want the contradictions down. First of all, we want County Counterfeiting to be limited to law enforcement. In the next round, we want to replace the County Council with an Administrative Court. There's a lot of reasons why we want the number of contradictions. The only thing is what goes on in housing and road construction. When it takes four-five-six years to regulate an area for housing, it's too long. It creates frustration, and it also leads to many young people having problems getting into the housing market. The second is that contradicting simply is a threat to local democracy. The Progress Party has confidence in local politicians. We have more confidence that elected local politicians will be able to better assess where it is advisable to build out than an official of the State can. Delimiting the contradictions, clipping the County in the first place, we think we will be a strengthening of local democracy. The last one applies to bureaucracy. Norway has a lot of bureaucracy. We have had a red-green government that over the last seven years has solved a lot of – most – challenges with new bans, laws and regulations. This means that we have built up a bureaucracy in Norway, while at the same time reducing bureaucracy in most countries. The fact that the county comes with counterparts to a municipality leads to a huge use of resources from the county office as well as a huge use of resources from each municipality – which is required to spend a lot of time and effort on this as they could have used for much more useful services for the inhabitants. It was also said here from the representative Toppe that we have to go loose on the composer and not on the conductor. We believe, of course, that making things simpler and debureaucratic – making simpler laws, cutting out some regulations and making them simpler – will be an important contribution. I am absolutely sure that we can take it if there is a change of government after the fall of the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e838	I thank you for a civilised and thorough debate. The representative Hageseter didn't have much faith that anything was done about this as long as there was a red-green government. The last time I checked with the representative, Mr. Hagesetter, he didn't have much faith that anything was done with anything as long as it was a red-green government – so it's not that surprising. So a few words about the debate itself – first about the counterinstitution itself. What is it? There are officials and distinguished people around Norway in many different departments who work to implement and ensure that what the Storting has agreed on policy is followed up in local plans as well. Let me give you a concrete example of an instance that makes a lot of contradictions. It's NVE. NVE is going through local plans, producing relatively many that are quite heavy on statistics. An important reason, a central reason, for the contradictions is the construction of areas that are flooded and scraped. In my opinion, it's not so awfully stupid that we have that institute. If I understand the Progress Party correctly in the debate, they are against the Counterfeiting Institute. In that case, it means that the NVE should not tell when a municipality proposes to use it. Well, I think it's absolutely right that you win. That's why I'm going to have such an institute, but I'm also for the work we're doing now to make it faster and more efficient to carry out processes and to make sure that we get a contradiction when necessary and right, but not in other cases. The second debate we have had here, which has shown a little difference, is the question of so-called warning of contradictions. There I also struggled to understand the view of the Right and the Advance Party. It must be better to say early on whether a counter-position occurs if the NVE sees a plan here, where it is up to a housing field or a business area, and here our statistics show that the area can be flooded and scraped. It is best that they contact quickly and report ahead of waiting and then produce a formal counterclaim. If we want good dialogue and good processes, at least my experience is that in the counties who have early contact with their municipalities and who are able to establish a real conversation, a dialogue, about challenges in plans, much smoother things are going on. In summary, in a short time, we will come back with the changes in both legislation and practice that the government will make in the counterinstitution. We believe that is necessary to ensure more efficient planning processes. But the men and women around who are working on this plan are doing an important job. They're working on a mission from the Storting to make sure that national politics is actually put into practice, whether it's about the beach zone, the flood and the escape, or what it's supposed to be, around Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e857	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e871	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e880	This proposition concerns the transfer of regulation of epicrisis transmission from the regulation to the law on health professionals, further amendment of the health professionals law to restrict access to the provision of information related to deafness for use in learning work and quality assurance — and proposals for some technical and conceptual changes to the health protection law, the Health Register Act and the Public Health Act. The proposals are supported by an overall committee, and I will briefly refer to common comments. The Committee supports the removal of epicrisis regulation from the regulation and into the Health Personnel Act. A majority of the hearing bodies which have commented on this part of the hearing note also support the proposal. Determined individuals and others who take responsibility for the treatment of patients will quickly need the information base available at the time of discharge and the Committee has noted that delays due to late waiting for probation can not only justify the late transmission of the epicrisis. The proposal further promotes proposals for changes to the Health Care Act to allow for the provision of limited information related to confidentiality for use in learning and quality assurance. The Committee recalls that the obligation of professional secrecy in the Health Care Professional Act imposes strict conditions on health professionals as regards the provision of information subject to professional secrecy. Today’s legislation limits the possibility of learning and quality development, e.g. for ambulance staff after completion of the assignment, for emergency staff after the patient has moved to the department, and for hospital staff preparing for hospital accommodation. The Committee therefore supports making certain changes to the Health Care Act to limit the possibility of providing tacit information in the context of learning and quality assurance. We stress that such disclosure should be limited so that the interference with privacy is minimised. The Committee notes that a majority of the hearing bodies support this part of the consultation note and that the Data Protection Board considers that the proposal has a legitimate and important purpose. We agree that it should be documented in the patient's records that information is provided for quality assurance purposes, as is now clarified in the proposal for a new Section 29(c) second paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e891	I take the floor too briefly to explain why the Left has promoted its own proposal today. We are not opposed to any of the legislative proposals proposed by a unanimous committee to the Stortingen, but we believe that two of the provisions should be somewhat more addressed. In addition, we believe that the patient should be provided with his own epicrisis after treatment in the specialist healthcare service. Let me first explain the change we propose in section 29c. This provision applies to the provision of information related to deafness to other healthcare professionals who have previously provided healthcare to the patient in a specific course of treatment. The supply must be justified in the interests of learning and quality assurance. It seems reasonable, and it is important for patient safety. The requirement on the part of the patient is that he should not oppose this. To put it a little to the top, this could mean that the patient needs to know about the destination and actively say no. It probably happens very rarely. Thus, the patient's own desire becomes a pure right of formality. Instead, the left wants the patient to consent to such extradition. We cannot ignore the challenges posed by epicrisis transmission, especially for patients in mental health protection and drug problems. Some epicrisis crises contain a lot of sensitive material. It may seem like a small detail, but in principle we think it is important to maintain that the patient should have control over who should have information about the silence. The second change we're proposing follows naturally from the first. Today, the provisions of the regulation are followed, and the Left believes that it makes sense to legislate. A unanimous committee proposes that the epicrisis be transmitted to the inpatient or reference healthcare professional, to the healthcare professional who needs the information in order to provide the patient with proper follow-up, and to the patient’s permanent physician. Here, too, the Committee considers it sufficient that the patient does not oppose the transmission. The left considers that the requirement must be that the patient consents. A question to the patient we don't think is unnecessary and to great disadvantage. It also gives the patient a real opportunity to oppose the transmission. The last change we propose is that the patient should be given a copy of his own epicrisis after examination/treatment in the specialist healthcare service. The justification is obvious: such a right will strengthen the patient’s right to both information and participation, which the Left believes is very important. I wish the Council of State could take the floor and have some reflections on the Left's proposals in the Chamber today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e907	The representative Borghild Tenden has then taken up the proposal she referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e923	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e932	First, the rapporteur would like to thank you for a good job in the Committee on this matter. Prop. 91 L for 2012–2013 is about changes in the Mental Health Act. The proposal concerns the alerting of offended persons or their survivors in the event of a change and termination of judgment in the event of compulsory mental health protection. New rules on disclosure obligations are also proposed for professionally liable and exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy relating to the prohibition of visits in the Criminal Procedures Act. In addition, the case also contains rules on night locking of patient rooms. The matter has been carefully discussed against human rights, and a unanimous committee is behind the Ministry's assessment of their respect. As regards the warning of offended and abandoned persons, the Committee took note that the majority of respondents accepted new rules. The Committee has also noted that several hearing bodies consider that the police/principal authorities are required to have the alert and not the health service. Here the committee is divided. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre, agree that this should be done by the Health Service, because this is a special reaction which the prosecution authorities have little influence on how to implement. The hearing bodies shall include, inter alia: The Medical Association, it believes, will go beyond the trust between the doctor and the patient. The majority believe that consideration for offended or abandoned persons is what must weigh more heavily and that it is important to bring together responsibility. I'm assuming that the minority will argue for their views on this. A Joint Committee points out that it is important that changes of importance for the offended and abandoned should be notified, provided that this is the wish of the survivors. The certainty of judgments in order to avoid retaliation is clarified in the text. With regard to the obligation to provide information in the context of a refusal of access, an overall committee supports the Government's proposal for the addition of Sections 5 to 6 that professional liability, without being impeded by the obligation of professional secrecy, may provide the prosecution authority with the necessary information for a visit ban, if any. Here is the consideration that the restraining order is intended to protect. It must be heavier. With regard to night locking of patient rooms, there is a rather divided view among the consultation bodies. Locking rooms is perceived by several people as coercive. The change in the law involves night locking of rooms during the period at 0 p.m. 23–06 and shall apply to regional security departments and entities with a particularly high level of safety. The majority of the Committee – The Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Right, the SV and the Centre – supports the proposal, but points out that it is important for the patient to be able to contact nursing staff at all times. It is also important that it be used only when absolutely necessary and only when other measures have not been successful or are insufficient. It is also important to clarify that the measures should not be applied to patients under 16 years of age and that authorisation for use should be applied for and be limited in time. In the first instance, the authorisation concerns only one regional safety department and the scheme is to be evaluated after five years. I expect that the Christian People's Party will explain its vision. There is a proposal from the minority, and it is natural that this is explained by them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e953	In criminal matters, there is an obligation to notify offended persons or their survivors of the time of leave and release. In this case, the same regime is introduced for those sentenced to transfer to compulsory mental health protection. This is a legislative change that the Progress Party believes is both important and correct. It's probably more than I've heard individuals tell their story about how they experienced – without warning – to run into the perpetrator who once ruined their lives in the past. These stories make a strong impression, and it's not hard at all to understand why this amendment will mean a lot to someone. However, the Advance Party, like the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, believes that this is a matter that must be handled by the prosecution authorities, not by professionally responsible, and therefore proposes this along with these parties. Furthermore, the case concerns access to lock patient rooms. The proposal is limited to regional security departments and entities with a particularly high level of safety, and concerns the time from 1 p.m. From 23 a.m. to 3 p.m. 06. An individual assessment requirement is proposed and a prerequisite for the patient to be able to make contact with the staff at any time. Since there are also assumptions that this should apply only to persons over 16 years of age, that it is in order to avoid significant damage to property or to avoid danger to others, and that all other measures should be tried, the Progress Party also supports this amendment. First of all, the amendment is intended to be implemented only for one of the regional security departments, with an evaluation after five years. In this respect, the Progress Party has stated that it is appropriate to consider whether the evaluation can be carried out after three years, in particular because many of the hearing bodies have opposed the legislative proposal. In addition to the Medical Association, the Progress Party is concerned that this amendment does not need to be used to save staff costs. Forced use in Norway is already too high, although with large differences around the country. It's time we were going to go into the depths of why we don't have the power to reduce the use of force in general, and put in place measures to succeed with something that I think is a common goal, i.e. minimum of coercion. I refer to the proposal that lies in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e968	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the proposal of the minority to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e971	The proposal on warning of offended persons or their survivors of changes in the implementation and termination of the judgment on compulsory health protection has itself important ethical and legal issues. New rules on disclosure obligations for professional persons and exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy relating to the rules on the prohibition of visits in the Criminal Procedures Act have been proposed. In addition, there are proposed rules on night locking of patient rooms. The conditions of human rights have been discussed and the Right considers that they have been properly protected. With regard to the alert requirement, the Right – like several hearing bodies – considers that the alert requirement, as proposed by the Government, should not be imposed on the professionally responsible doctor, but on police and prosecution authorities, or on the new national coordination unit. There is a different view of what the alert obligation should include, how high the threshold should be and when the obligation should be waived. On the right, the government’s assessments that the starting point for alerting should be that it is of importance to offended and abandoned persons, and that decisions or events involving a change in the risk of their being able to take a decision on convictions should be notified. A prerequisite is of course that the offended and abandoned want to be notified. As I was at the outset, the government's proposals for warning important ethical and legal issues raise. The right is concerned that the trust between doctor and patient must be maintained and that further disclosure of the obligation of professional secrecy must be carefully considered and clearly defined. The responsibility of the professional must be clearly defined and provision must be made for the professional responsible to carry out his duties properly. Both the Medical Association and the Control Commission of Aarhus have pointed to important questions regarding the professional responsibility of the patient and their extended responsibilities. The right considers that the law should give the professional responsibility to notify the prosecution authorities, but that the prosecution authorities must be obliged to notify the defendant. The Aarhus Control Commission has, among other things: stated that, in their opinion — at least so far — mental health protection has not been organised or organised for legal tasks proposed by the government. This would lead to considerable uncertainty and poor practice in the use of alerts for offended and abandoned persons. The right will contribute to ensuring that patients under the mental health protection law are provided with sound and good health care and that the relationship with the obligation of professional secrecy and care for the offended and the deceased is respected. We have therefore, together with the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, put forward a proposal that we consider to be in keeping with these conditions. Finally, I would like to point out that many of the hearing bodies have expressed their critical opinion on the government's proposal on access to night locking of patient rooms. Looking at night locking as a coercive measure, the right will strongly stress the need for a measure to be taken only when it is considered absolutely necessary. In these cases, the patient must be properly supervised and treated, and the patient’s safety must be well-managed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e988	In this case, there are proposed changes to mental health laws, and I would like to make a comment on the proposal for new rules on the ability to lock patient rooms. I must admit that I thought that this matter had been a bit difficult. The lock-up of patient rooms must be seen as the use of coercion, and we know that it is a political goal to reduce the use of coercion in Norway and get more proper use of coercion. That's why these cases are demanding. 31 hearing aids have spoken out, and the majority are actually critical. I am pleased that after the hearing the government has improved this bill on several important points, which means that it has been a good development in the matter that has been adopted today. In the correct wording of the legal text, it is also clarified that this is only for very special cases and where it is absolutely necessary that a regional security department should be involved, that one should evaluate it after five years – before enlargement – and that one should do so only when necessary to prevent patients from harming others or causing serious damage to things. It is also clarified that it should be used when other measures have not been closed, that the age limit is 16 years, that there should always be staff who can be contacted, and that there should always be defensive supervision of nursing staff. And with the precision that's done, we're going to end up with this. I also, at the end of the day, want to say that this does not have to be a saving measure in criminal matters, but that it should be a measure to the benefit of the patient.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e997	In this proposition, the Ministry of Health and Health proposes changes to the Mental Health Act. The proposal concerns the warning of offended persons or their survivors in the event of changes in the implementation and termination of the judgment on compulsory mental health protection. New rules on disclosure obligations are proposed for professional liability and exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy relating to the rules on the prohibition of visits in the Criminal Procedures Act. In addition, new rules on night locking of patient rooms are proposed. I want to focus in this article on the latest amendment, night locking of patient rooms. With regard to the second amendment, about who should alert the relatives, etc., we support the views expressed in the post from the Right. The proposal for new rules on night locking of patient rooms raises issues that need to be discussed in the light of the European Convention on Human Rights. 31 Hearing Officers have expressed their views on the proposal for night locking. 20 of the hearing bodies express general opposition, while 10 provide support or conditional support for the proposal. Despite the considerable resistance in the consultation round, the government argues that night locking does not conflict with the requirement of Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights on Freedom and Security, but that night locking of patient rooms must be assessed more closely in relation to Article 3, on torture, and Article 8, which deals with respect for privacy and family life. The locking of patient rooms is perceived as coercive. The use of coercive agents in an institution for daily stays is regulated by the Mental Health Act § 4-8. This provision applies both to patients who are admitted on a voluntary basis and to patients under compulsory mental health protection. The proposal we are now discussing is limited to regional security departments and entities with a particularly high level of security and is valid from 1 p.m. From 23 a.m. to 3 p.m. 06. An individual assessment of the individual patient’s condition is proposed before night locking is used. Furthermore, it is a prerequisite that the patient can at any time contact present personnel and ask to come out whenever necessary, and that the patient should be properly supervised by nursing staff. The proposition states that night locking shall only be used if ‘indispensable’ to prevent the patient from harming others or to avert significant damage to buildings, furnishings or other objects. The Christian People's Party nevertheless believes, despite these clarifications, that night locking of patient rooms between hours. 23 and 06 are contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights, in particular Articles 3 and 8 thereof, and therefore do not support the proposal for a new Section 4A-6(a). In today's law it is possible to have a brief attachment behind a locked or closed door without staff present. I believe that the period from 9.00 p.m. From 23 a.m. to 3 p.m. 06 is not short-lived and that night locking is a major extension of the use of coercion. The Christian People's Party believes that the doubts expressed in the government's proposition that night locking must be assessed in more detail in relation to Articles 3 and 8 should be addressed to those who are very seriously mentally ill and who need to be helped by the public health service other than to have their own room locked at night.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1016	The vast majority of patients with mental illness are not dangerous, and the vast majority of crimes are committed by likely individuals. I think it is important to remember and clarify this initially, so that the picture becomes correct, and that we do not stigmatise a large group of backgrounds in issues that concern only a very small minority. Our efforts for increased volunteering in general in the field of mental health protection remain firm. However, there are very few dangerous patients, where today’s legislation does not take sufficient account of citizens who have become victims of violence. We as politicians have a duty to improve this. In criminal cases involving serious violence or assault, there may be a great deal of pressure for offended or abandoned persons to take a stand in court without being prepared. The government believes it is important that offended and abandoned people be warned when there is a risk of encountering, even if the perpetrator is sentenced to mandatory mental health protection. We are therefore proposing changes to the Mental Health Act, in order to alert offended and abandoned persons to changes in the implementation and termination of the judgment on mandatory mental health protection. The assumption is that offended or abandoned persons want to be notified and that the security of convictions is adequately ensured. The government also proposes, as you know, a change in the law that will allow access to night locking of patient rooms in a regional security department if ‘indispensable’ to reduce the risk of serious violent behaviour. The purpose is more calm and increased security for employees and patients at the institution. In addition, the Government proposes new rules on disclosure obligations for professional persons and exemptions from the obligation of professional secrecy relating to the rules on refusal of access. The background to this proposal is that the government considers the professionally responsible in its assessment of the implementation of mandatory mental health protection should also consider whether access to the imposition of a visit ban should be used. I am pleased that a Joint Committee supports the proposal on disclosure obligations and exemptions from professional secrecy relating to the rules on refusal of access. I am also pleased that the majority in the Committee – the Labour Party, the Advance Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre – support the proposal for warning of offended and abandoned people. The majority agree that it is the professional person who should be responsible for alerting, because it is the health service that is responsible for ensuring the safety of the implementation of the judgment on compulsory mental health protection, and because it is the professional person responsible for deciding how to implement mandatory mental health protection. Judgments on mandatory mental health protection are not about criminal enforcement but about a special reaction, which the prosecution authority has little influence on how to implement. I would warn against the assessment by the Advance Party and the Right that the alert requirement does not include ‘between items within the same institution’. The legislative proposal covers ‘transmission between different levels of safety within the same institution’, e.g.: the transfer from a security department to an open department. I believe it is important that the alert requirement includes this when the transfer can change the risk of offending or leaving the victim in court. It may be of great importance for an offended person to know that a perpetrator is being moved from a high-security department to an open department with greater opportunity to get in touch with persons on the outside of the institution. I am pleased that the proposal to lock patients' rooms at night has been supported by the majority of the Committee – all parties with the exception of the Christian People's Party. Night locking may prevent uneasy and dangerous patients from leaving the room at night and cause unrest and endanger other patients and staff. Access to night locking can thus provide more peace and security. This is important for both employees and patients who are in a department with particularly dangerous patients. The government has decided to evaluate the functioning of the new rules on night locking. Such evaluation shall take place within five years of the entry into force of the rules. I expect that access to night locking will be used in very few cases, and therefore it will take some time to gain sufficient experience with the rules. The right has underlined the importance of ‘responsible medical supervision and treatment for the patient and the need to ensure the safety of the patient’. These are the assumptions on which the bill is based and which I fully agree. Finally, with the assumptions embedded in this bill, it is clear that night locking is within the international human rights, as the government sees it. Among other things, the patient shall be properly supervised and be able to keep in touch with the personnel present and to ask to be released whenever necessary. Night locking may only be used when less restrictive means have been clearly shown to be ineffective or insufficient. In some cases, it is better to lock a door at night than to use continuous watchkeeping or other coercive measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1042	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1045	I would first like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Minister of Health and Welfare on the day since the department is 100 years old today, and it is to be celebrated. I guess it's deserved. I have a clarification on what the Minister of Health raised regarding the comment of the Right Party and the Advance Party. When a user uses the term ‘institution’, the idea, at least from the right, is that it is a matter of transfer within the same level, and it should have been clarified in the comment. But my question is about who should alert the relatives or the victim in these situations, whether it should be the professionally responsible or the prosecution authorities. As you can see, the opposition suggests that there should be prosecution authorities. Does the Minister of Health not see that it is a challenge that it is the professional responsible to have direct contact with those concerned in these cases, that it can create challenges with regard to the patient, but also with regard to the relatives, and that the prosecution authorities have a network throughout the country, which makes them better able to carry out such a task?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1055	I understand that point of view, and I don't think there's a -- let's say -- deep, fundamental difference in that. Once we've chosen this, it's also based on the advice we've received from the most affected in the sector. I would assume that the professionally responsible will serve the network to which the representative refers, as the prosecution authority and the police have, for example. to know where relatives reside at all times. But this we get to evaluate and see how it works. This we believe is the grip that keeps the whole in the best possible way, and then we get to learn and see how it works. Should there be shortcomings in that, the option of even closer cooperation with the police and prosecution authorities is clear to assess.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1062	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1076	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1085	Doping is a growing problem for individuals, for families, for society and for public health. That is why I am pleased that there is a unanimous committee in favour of the Government's proposal for amendments to the Medicines Act on the prohibition of the acquisition, possession and use of doping agents. It is positive that the law change is coming now. The prohibition is a contribution to the fight against doping. By criminalising the use of doping, society’s attitude to doping is evident. The aim of criminalisation is general prevention and the establishment of sanctions. I am pleased that the Department points out that the use of doping is to be met with health care instead of traditional punishment. The substances on the doping list, produced by the Medical Products Agency, do not coincide with the substances considered doping to be doping agents. The list of sports includes both drugs and substances that are not listed. These are not covered by this amendment. The proposal is supported by a large majority of the hearing bodies. Some of those who were critical of the proposal point out that this could involve a double penalty. However, the Committee supports the Ministry that an exclusion is not a sanction under national law, nor is it a penalty under the Convention on Human Rights. The consultation focused on the fact that the legislative changes should not lead to their failure to continue their anti-doping programme. There is an important issue at work, and it is important that it is clarified, and that one finds good solutions, so that they can continue with their anti-doping program. The ban itself is not enough to stop the use of doping, but will be a good tool. The fight against doping must happen on many fronts. That is why it is positive that the government in this year's budget has set at 4 million. kr to Health South-East to further develop the offer to people who have been harmed by the use of doping drugs, and to invest in research, information and prevention. It is worrying that in a study at secondary schools in Oslo, 6.8 p.m. by the boys that they had tried doping. Parents say that when they confront their youth with doping, they only get the answer that it is their body, and that the use of doping is not illegal in Norway. They want a ban on the use of anabolic steroids. Some professionals ask questions about the effectiveness of doping, but the Committee supports the Aker Hospital Hormonal Laboratory that the use of anabolic steroids can cause both physical, mental and social problems. Although it is not appropriate to expose anyone to such high doses for research purposes, users, relatives and health professionals report a number of psychological problems in doping, such as aggressiveness, irritation, mood swings, sleep disturbances, depressive and manic conditions and an increased risk of suicide in the process of degression. There is an important work on doping in both Antidoping Norway's regimen and the Hormonal Laboratory at Aker. In recent years, anti-doping Norway has been working against doping outside the organised sport and has, among other things, a training programme for health sisters. The hormone laboratory at Aker is involved in the work against doping. The laboratory has a significant competence for the consequences of doping. The doping phone that serves both users, relatives, health professionals, police and teachers is also located in connection with the Hormonal Laboratory. I am pleased that the ban now comes into place, but that is only part of the work against doping. That is why I am pleased that more grips have been taken at the same time. It is important to strengthen the competence of services in general and to strengthen the point competence of doping. Therefore, it is important that those with doping problems and their relatives are met by health professionals with competence in doping issues. So I look forward to Health South-East developing its offer, in line with the 2013 budget, and then I think it is very good that we now also get research that can provide us with knowledge of how to combat doping, so that it becomes a complete work against doping.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1108	The rapporteur gave such a good and complete picture of this field that I would not add anything to the matter, because it was both pointed out by changes in the law and by other measures. So the only thing I want to say in this field is that the law goes so far, and then attitude work has to be done in addition to that. I am concerned that legal work is important, but it is also norm work. It is clear that the major challenge here is that young people in particular — especially men — serve this purpose for a set of reasons that are difficult to fully understand. That is why I think it is important, as the representative says, that this needs to be more researched, and systematic awareness-raising must be carried out. I want from this pulpit to fame gyms around Norway, who take this seriously, and who see that creating a doping-free arena in the gyms actually helps to influence those attitudes. Then we have to do it in far more arenas than we really do today, and we hope that this bill will also contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1117	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1131	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1140	Several distributions have shown that pandemic influenza is one of the major societal security challenges. It is a political responsibility to ensure good preparedness. Both health services and other sectors must be prohibited in situations where influenza epidemics or pandemic influenza occur in Norway. The flu epidemic in 2009–2010 was a long-standing and demanding crisis management task in Norway. The influenza was less extensive than first feared, but still affected thousands of people. It has been estimated against 1.45 million clinical infections, 2.2 million vaccinated, 1 325 hospitalized, and 32 registered deaths. This message provides a wide range of professional information on the disease influenza and the pandemic, and a presentation of the measures and frameworks for preparedness and preparation and management of the influenza epidemic in 2009 and 2010. In the message, the government outlines many different measures to strengthen the future preparedness for pandemic influenza. It is advised that a new and revised national contingency plan for pandemic influenza should be established in the light of the experience gained with the plan underpinning the management of the pandemic in 2009. The World Health Organisation has recently proposed new standards for good monitoring. It is a fact that the Norwegian monitoring does not fully meet these standards, as it will require a system in which hospitals report to the Public Health Institute about admissions to hospitals for influenza. The Committee believes it is natural for Norway to adapt to the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. In this setting, the Committee underlines the importance of a good risk assessment. Both in Norway and in other countries, it is discussed whether this pandemic was a real crisis situation. The Committee points out that the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness states that a review of the Public Health Institute’s risk assessments proved to be largely in line with actual developments. Information is essential in a pandemic situation. The Committee underlines the need to develop better and clearer lines of communication from national and regional health authorities to decision-makers. The notification refers broadly to the need for good and timely diagnostics and proper treatment, including preventive treatment, vaccination and hygiene measures. Vaccination of all or part of the population was a cornerstone of the disease strategy in the pandemic plan. Early vaccination of risk groups has probably prevented many serious cases and deaths. Otherwise, the high level of vaccination coverage is also a likely main explanation that the pandemic influenza caused only a relatively small epidemic in Norway in the winter of 2010–2011. The Directorate has found that most municipalities carried out the vaccination in a satisfactory way. Prevention and treatment were carried out under the authority of the municipal health and care services, and this also worked well. Only the worst of them needed hospitalization. However, although fewer than estimated demands for hospitalisation were met, intensive capacity was under pressure, and laboratory analysis was also needed throughout the pandemic period. The Committee supports the monitoring notified by the government to go through hospitals’ preparedness and capacity. The Committee has also underlined the need for rapid laboratory diagnostics and adequate recruitment of bioengineers. The Committee is concerned that on the basis of the data available, a causal relationship between vaccination of Pandemrix and narcolepsy in children cannot be excluded, but that at present such a relationship cannot be established in Norway. The Agency has now reached a conclusion that Pandemrix should be used with caution in children and adolescents, and the vaccine has not been used in Norway after the pandemic. The Committee believes it is important to follow-up with action on those who are the victims of narcolepsy. The Committee is pleased that the Health Directorate and the Public Health Institute are to submit, in cooperation, draft new national contingency plan for pandemic influenza. The Institute of Public Health is already working to put in place a new flexible agreement on the supply of vaccines, and the Committee has indicated that we are positive that some are being kept away from distribution to poor countries that cannot afford to buy vaccines themselves. The Committee has highlighted in particular the need for an proprietary stock of antiviral medicines and the acquisition of pre-pandemic vaccines.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1163	Influenza epidemics in 2009–2010 proved to be a long-term and demanding crisis management task for Norwegian authorities in the same way as for authorities in almost all countries. Gradually, it turned out that luckily the flu became less serious than the authorities had first feared and planned. Pandemies act as if they're familiar with a few decades apart. The next pandemic may come in decades, or it may come in a few years. A serious pandemic influenza will be one of the main challenges for social security. It is therefore very important that both healthcare and other critical social sectors are well prepared at all times to deal with emerging pandemics. The government has chosen to present its own notification to the Storting to inform about the actual preparation and the concrete management of the influenza epidemic in 2009–2010. This is based on national and international reviews and evaluations, and we think it is useful that we have received this assessment in the Committee and the debate in the Chamber on this important matter. The main purpose of these evaluations has been to learn from experience — both what worked well and what could and should have worked better. I am pleased that the Committee unanimously subscribes to the key elements on which the preparedness for pandemic influenza should be based in the years to come. Let me summarise here the main challenges and strategies for dealing with such a future pandemic: Firstly, a pandemic involves the widespread spread of an entirely new type of influenza virus worldwide — both in terms of infectivity and severity. Pandemics also do not act as the annual seasonal flu limited to the winter months, but may also occur at other times of the year. Secondly, in practice, it will not be possible to completely stop a spread of infection at the borders of the country and thus eradicate the virus where it first breaks out, or in Norway. This means that efforts must be concentrated on delaying the course of the disease and limiting the impact on individuals and communities. Furthermore, vaccination will be the most effective measure — both to reduce the risk of disease and death for the population and to prevent the spread of infection. During the first phase of a pandemic, most likely there will be no vaccine available that actually protects against the new virus. It takes four to six months to develop and apply such an effective vaccine. And finally, until an effective vaccine is available, antivirals could reduce the risk of serious disease while at the same time delaying the course of the pandemic. There will be considerable uncertainty about the extent and severity of a pandemic in the early phase. This uncertainty will be the main challenge for the choice of response strategies. In my view and in the view of the government, the following principles must be used both before a pandemic occurs and under a pandemic: Firstly, emergency planning must always take into account a serious situation. It will be easier to scale down than to scale up the measures when new and up-to-date knowledge of the development of the pandemic comes. Secondly, emergency planning must allow for flexible handling. Based on new knowledge of the development of dissemination and seriousness, continuous adaptation of measures, both internationally and nationally, must take place. Thirdly, there must always be an efficient and proportionate use of resources. Under a pandemic, the need for society’s resources is going to be greater than usual, not least in healthcare. Therefore, the use of resources must be prioritised and dimensioned so that the objectives can be achieved without the negative effects exceeding the expected positive effects. Chapter 9 of the Communication presents a number of proposals that will constitute the future preparedness for pandemic influenza. Let me draw out three of the most important: Firstly, it concerns the development of better monitoring systems which, together, can contribute to the strengthening of ongoing risk assessments at all stages of a pandemic, and which should provide the best possible knowledge base for authorities for difficult weighing-up of deployments of concrete preparedness measures. Secondly, the finalisation of the work on a revised national contingency plan for pandemic influenza, which takes into account all the experience gained with the specific handling in 2009-2010. The aim is to establish such a national emergency plan within a short period of time. Such a plan, to replace the 2006 plan, shall provide overall guidance for updated contingency plans for municipalities, health businesses and other critical social institutions, while building on their experience from 2009. And thirdly, it concerns the completion of the work of an agreement with a vaccine producer after a regular bidding round on the supply of vaccines in a pandemic situation. It is now working to clarify the basis for such a tender. Key elements of such an agreement will be quality, flexibility, price, delivery time and delivery conditions. It is scheduled to have such a delivery contract in place during 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1203	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1219	There is now also a summary of the nationwide supervision of hospitals by the Health Authority in the case of patients with cancer of the colon and rectum. The summary shows that out of 28 sites surveyed, there were 17 sites where deviations related to how patients were followed up by the patient administration systems. The course of treatment was continued, for example: did not comply with the medically prescribed time limit set at the first consultation. This was one of the deviations that usually went on again. Patients have long complained that they often experience getting new doctors at hospitals to deal with, and that no one takes responsibility for the patient throughout the patient’s course. Often, the patient himself or the relatives take on this role, thus bringing further information from one part to the other. This is not sustainable, especially in a situation where this nationwide supervision shows that very many of our hospitals also do not have good enough patient administration systems. What could have been done in many ways by a good system is also not taken care of by the appointment of a patient coordinator. This happens despite the fact that Stortinget and the political environment have been working on this problem for a long time. The regulation on a patient-responsible doctor was laid down on 1 December 2000. So it's almost 13 years ago. At the time, the regulation applied to hospitalisation in somatic institutions and institutions in mental health protection, outpatient services before and after hospitalisation, and to repeated outpatient studies and treatment. The purpose of a patient-responsible doctor was to have a coordinating function, to have one fixed point for patients in the healthcare system, one doctor who knows the patient’s history and ensures that the patient receives the treatment required — not least to have a contact point for the patient, if the patient has questions about his own situation. This should be a function responsible for contact between the local health service and the specialist health service. The experience was already in 2004, when the Wisløff Committee did its job, that the scheme did not work. They showed, among other things: that at that time the health oversight had received supervisory reports indicating that the scheme had not been implemented as required by law or regulation. The Wisloff committee's assessment was that many people lacked respect for the follow-up to the scheme, and that one of the reasons for this might have been that this was too under-respectable. They therefore proposed adjustments to the scheme. Minister of Health Ansgar Gabrielsen had as a hobby, when he traveled around and visited hospitals and healthcare companies, asking for this scheme. It was between 2004 and 2005. It was very rare that someone could answer that they had set up this scheme. What was the usual answer was that you were in the process of establishing it. The then health minister's answer to this was at the time that if he was stopped for 60 km/h in a 50 km zone, it would help little to tell the police that he was in the process of getting down to 50 km/h. The reason why we're using this comparison is that the Storting has thought that this is such an important function, that it's not something you've given in mission documents, circulars or other ways, but that it's actually something you've set out in law. The previous Minister of Health, Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen, followed up the Wisløff Committee and concluded that the scheme did not work. She said in the evening post on February 5, 2011 that she looked seriously at the fact that many hospitals had neglected this scheme. That debate came as a follow-up to the article Per Fugelli wrote in the same newspaper. He described his meeting with 37 different doctors during his cancer treatment. Several other patients have described this in the same way. In the context of the new municipal health and care law, the government’s recommendation to the Storting was to follow up the Wisløff Committee’s recommendations to establish a patient coordinator scheme instead of a patient-responsible doctor. This means opening up the way for other health professionals to perform this function, for example: physiotherapists and nurses in cases where it is natural. An example may be patients who regularly engage in outpatient dialysis and meet a specialist nurse, or nurse, who is best able to perform such a function, because having a doctor there, who rarely meets the patient, to perform such a function, would not be a good solution. This was also an arrangement The Storting joined, although it was made clear from both the government and the Storing that in most cases it was most natural that a doctor should have this function. I have inherited Ansgar Gabrielsen's hobby, namely to ask about this when the Health and Care Committee is out and visiting various health companies. Unfortunately, the answer today is exactly the same as it was in 2004–2005. I have not yet met a health company that says that they have implemented this. Some people get a little insecure when I ask about it, which indicates that they are not even aware of the scheme, while others say that they are in the process of implementing it. It will be a very lengthy process in case, given that this was already a regulatory requirement on 1 December 2000. I have also asked the current Minister of Health how many patients are appointed to the patient coordinator. It was not possible to get an answer to that a few months ago. This means that there is also no national follow-up to this legal requirement as it is today. I think this is serious. First of all, it is serious for those patients who could receive an offer, which is one of the most important offers the Health Inspectorate calls for outside treatment, namely a contact point to deal with – one who feels a responsibility throughout the patient’s course, and who can ensure that the patient actually receives the treatment that is required. The other thing that's serious is that this is an order, which I've been through, which Stortinget has found so important that it has actually been legislated – and yet it's not being followed up. I am aware of the issues that healthcare companies are experiencing that the annual mission documents are very extensive. I think it's good, what the Minister of Health has done to go through critically all the requirements given, and distinguish what's important from what's not important, and get a concentration. I think that's absolutely necessary. However, it may not be that the decision of the Grand Duchy in the form of a law is made into an assessment issue, whether it is appropriate for undertakings to implement it or not. What is in the form of a law should be implemented. Now, the Stortinget also has to deal with changes in the Patient Rights Act. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have proposed to create a mirror image of that imposed by the Specialist Service Act; to have this offer as a mirror image in the Patient's Rights Act, so that it also becomes a right for the individual patient. I think it can help more people get this, not least that the patient gets an opportunity to complain and to take this up if you don't get a patient coordinator appointed. That might not have been necessary, but I believe it is because of the legal certainty of the patients and that today's system has not proved to be implemented. The experience of doctors who have worked in departments that have carried this out – because there are no patient coordinators anywhere, there is some place in the system – is that this is not difficult, but that it can be practically implemented. But it requires management to take responsibility and say that this is so important that you want to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1249	Norwegian cancer patients are offered high-quality investigation and treatment. We have good treatment results for most cancers, and for some types of cancer, we're at the top of the world. However, although good treatment outcomes are a primary objective of cancer care, it is also important to ensure that individual patients feel cared for, seen and heard. We discussed earlier in this room that although patients may be satisfied with the treatment they receive in hospitals, they are less satisfied with the communication and overview they receive. Getting a cancer diagnosis is in itself a heavy burden and puts individual patients and relatives in a vulnerable situation, how many feel anxiety and uncertainty for the future. Cancer patients often go through complex patient pathways, where they switch between permanent, hospital and municipal health and care services. In specialist healthcare, they are often in contact with several different treatment sites and departments. This may lead to cancer patients experiencing fragmentation and uncoordinated services and that they themselves must be the coordinator of their own patient course. For patients in need of complex or long-term and coordinated specialist health services, a coordinator shall be appointed. This obligation was imposed by law on 1 January 2012 and is governed by the Special Health Services Act § 2-5a. The coordinator shall provide the necessary follow-up of the individual patient and ensure coordination of the provision of services in the context of institutional and other service providers. The legal provision states that the coordinator should be a doctor, but other health professionals may be a coordinator when deemed appropriate and appropriate. The obligation to set up a coordinator has been welcomed and has been seen as an important instrument for providing patients with a more comprehensive and coherent range of services. Many cancer patients are now covered by the legal requirement, but I am not able to give an exact number to the representative’s previous questions. It's now a little over a year since the law requirement for the coordinator came into force. Hospital feedback shows that establishing such functions works well, but varies how far the individual hospitals have come. I would like to encourage the representative – and all other representatives of big business who are on the visit – to follow up on the former Council of State Gabrielsen's hobby, as it was said, namely to ask questions about this. I have to admit that I have done it myself on a few occasions. This shows that one exercises a pressure that a law should also be followed up in practice. Several hospitals have established their own cancer coordinator positions, e.g. Telemark Hospital and Stavanger University Hospital. Others are working to get such jobs in place. Health South-East for its part has given leadership to its hospitals to set up cancer coordinators at the cancer wards. Cancer coordinators are mostly nurses or other health professionals — not doctors. The task of the cancer coordinator is to provide patients with information about what to do when and about rights and waiting times. The coordinator will also follow up the logistics of the patient course and ensure that the target for cancer patients to start treatment is reached within 20 days of receipt of the referral. The law also states that the coordinator should be a doctor. This may have created some uncertainty in hospitals about how to meet the legal requirement for cancer patients, and therefore the implementation of the legal provision may have been delayed. I have received several feedback suggesting that the requirement that the coordinator should as a general rule be a doctor is an impractical solution and an inappropriate use of the doctor's time. Practical coordination tasks, e.g.: in the context of agreements, probationary and other information transmission, and ongoing contact with patients and relatives may often be carried out more appropriately by health professionals other than doctors, e.g. nurse. It is good experience from other countries with nurses as cancer coordinators. Tomorrow, I will present national cancer strategy, which brings together the main objectives and measures for the next four years. Measures to address patients’ needs for good information, effective investigation and treatment, good and holistic patient profiles and good information flows will be central in the notification. In a short time, I will also send to the hearing a proposal to change the requirement that the coordinator should, as a general rule, be a doctor, so that the hospitals themselves can assess who can have this role – which is best suited to take it. In my view, this will facilitate the implementation of the legal requirement, so that the requirement can be met more quickly, while helping to ensure good quality in the follow-up to cancer patients and other patients. Let me just say in the end that I share with the representative the clear clarification that the law will be implemented. At the same time — and not in order to reduce the pressure on hospitals and health regions — we need to be open to the fact that it takes some time to adapt to the individual clinical everyday life of the individual hospitals to get this well in place. There is a lot of information to coordinate. For many cancer patients, a coordinator, consisting of the prescriber, will be of great importance in being able to navigate through that part of a patient’s course that belongs to another part of our healthcare system than to the specialist healthcare sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1279	I would like to thank the Minister of Health and Care for the answer, although I can see that again, as a result of the fact that the hospitals do not follow up what Stortinget has ordered them to do, the claim is lowered. That's the answer. It was basically a clear demand that it be a patient-responsible doctor. It was opened up, with doubts, to allow others to comply with this scheme where appropriate. There were clear warnings in the consultation round against this, including: from the Medical Association and from the Health Authority, but it was nevertheless decided to do so because it might be more appropriate. Now I understand that the Minister of Health and Health is thinking of further lowering the requirement by a way of accepting that this will mainly be about other health professionals. It'll be interesting to see the hearing recordings here. It's worth clarifying that the function that many hospitals have, called cancer coordinator, is something other than patient coordinator and patient manager. Those who act as a cancer coordinator often have a more general administrative responsibility to manage the entire patient flow in a way, while the starting point for the patient-responsible doctor – or what later became a patient coordinator – was to have a person with whom you had personal contact and who also had a direct responsibility for the individual patient. The feedback that now comes from the Minister of Health may indicate that there is an ambition that the government is about to leave, and that a more administrative function for a patient group is then transferred. It's something other than that which was Storting's intention. I would also like to say that it would be a little surprising if you made this change just as a regulatory change, given that the Stortinget was so clear about describing this when you dealt with the bill – that on the basis of it you can get a regulation that goes to the opposite conclusion, namely that it no longer needs to be a doctor, but anyone, when the Stortinget – and the processors – is clear that it should be the doctor with whom the patient has a relationship. I think that for many of these patients, not least cancer patients, it's important to have a doctor with whom they have a relationship, as the patient's doctor, and who also has a journal responsibility and some other functions related to the patient, as the Health Authority also points out in its hearing opinions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1294	I've met a lot of doctors with a lot of experience who tell us about the time when the term "my patient" was very common – doctors had their patients, and there were patients they could follow for many years, almost throughout the course of life. Then they describe that the situation today, where we treat so many people in hospitals, makes that exact function and that ownership different. Therefore, it is our task to ensure that patients in our hospitals, in increasing numbers, most in the daytime, experience good information, patient-related information, relevant information and secure information — and as much as possible from a person they can relate to. Of course, it's not a desired state that people have to deal with a lot of different people. I just want to say that when we now evaluate this change in the requirement that it has to be a doctor, it's because more considerations come up against each other. I will not readily agree that it is a measure to lower the claim. On the contrary, I hope that there may be a measure that – point 1 – can make it easier to ensure that there is such a coordinator, and – point 2 – that there is a recognition out there in the clinical everyday life that the type of information requested can be well cared for by other groups. I understand, when I visit a hospital, that laying down a plan – the organisation and use of staff in a busy hospital day – must also be understood by the legislator when we see how laws are implemented in the hospital's everyday life. There may also be a need to make adjustments like we do here, but the purpose is at least the same. I just want to repeat that we should, of course, listen to all the hearings and to the patient groups. This is by no means an expression that we want to lower the requirement, but we want to make it easier to implement and more realistic to the benefit of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1308	At last year's health conference, Per Fugelli handed out a hip-hop hurrah to the Norwegian Health Service. The justice that characterizes the Norwegian health service is a jewel we have to look after, he said. At the same time, he warned of the alarm that many patients felt, and told them that he had been in contact with 37 doctors through the course of treatment – a ‘stim of a single-use doctor’, to use Fugelli’s own expression. Many cancer patients go through long-term treatment and meet different health services and many treatment providers. The fear that something may go wrong, that a message will not be passed on, that you do not meet the person, or that you are not seen, heard or understood can be a heavy burden that comes to the top of a serious illness. The interpellant addresses an important theme. No matter how good professional treatment is offered, trust is released when patients who need a patient coordinator do not. Cancer is serious and affects 28 000 Northmen every year. Twenty years ago, half of the cancer patients lived five years after they were diagnosed. Today the number is two out of three. The Norwegian health system achieves some of the world’s best results for multiple cancers, but many experience uncertainties and wait too long for investigation and treatment. Identifying bottlenecks, organising effectively and implementing measures for better information and coordinated patient trajectories are key tasks for hospitals and part of mission documents for 2012 and 2013. Both specialist health services and municipalities currently have a statutory obligation to appoint coordinators for patients in need of complex, long-term and coordinated services. To the extent that there should be any doubt as to what the Workers' Party believes about this, let me be quite clear: Patient Coordinators are important. Of course, the obligation imposed by law must be fulfilled. But the interpellant's party wants to introduce the patient coordinator as an individual right. An increasing number of welfare solutions have become a legal right for individuals and an obligation for society. Is this just good? On the one hand, rights are the guarantee of good services to individuals. On the other hand, increasing rights-holding can mean that only those with the most resources gain with their wishes and needs. Many talk about the Americanisation of society, or ‘lightification’ of politics, where the courts ultimately decide what is right and wrong. I would like to quote the former Social Minister of the Right, Leif Arne Heløe, who has written about this in the Norwegian Medical Association Journal: ‘Freedom of choice and patients’ rights are important ideals in today’s society. In health services, doctors and other health professionals get less to say, while patients, lawyers and administrators get more. The distribution of healthcare is no longer fairer and public health is not better for that reason.» Legal rights are central means of governance, because they bind the state, the municipalities and other actors, but there are also arguments that draw the opposite direction: a rights-regulated system can become rigid and thus ineffective, the political space for action is weakened, rights management can create new needs for administration and bureaucracy, and rights can become a tool for the most resource-intensive. The previous power investigation discussed legal proceedings. It pointed out that it represented a transfer of power to the courts, and warned against eradicating the distinction between law and interpretation. The working party believes that patient coordinators are absolutely necessary. We are pleased with the law that requires hospitals and municipalities to ensure that such coordinators are in place, and we are concerned that they are not. The Health Minister has just explained what needs to be done now to clarify and develop the scheme, and that is a good move. To attach rights is something else. I have to say I'm a little surprised by the skepticism of the interpellant that other people than doctors can do the coordinating role. For the Workers' Party, it is quite obvious that a coordinator needs to be in place, but it is equally obvious that the job can be done well by someone who is not a doctor. Health services must be good and effective, but also kind, said Per Fugelli at the Health Conference last year. That's very well said. A system in which we're all customers, and where the strongest demands their right through the courts, does not provide better health and greater security.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1335	First, thank you to the interpellant who keeps clicking on this case by addressing the topic of patient coordinator. It is very important, because many patients feel that it is complicated and difficult to identify in healthcare. There is complicated organisation, functional divisions that are incomprehensible to a layman, and treatment at several levels of administration and in different parts of specialist and primary health services. As a result, many patients experience healthcare as unbridled and fragmented. Patients should be more likely to experience a holistic course of treatment. This is primarily ensured by the amendment of the Patient Rights Act and the conversion of treatment procedures, but it is not possible to exclude that patient coordinators could also help to help patients through the treatment system more quickly. Such a coordinator will know the complex systems and thus be able to help the patient much more throughout the course of treatment. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that a patient coordinator scheme is desirable. It is disappointing that so many patients today do not experience the help of the coordinator they should have had, but must orient themselves in the health jungle almost on their own. There may be an additional burden in addition to the disease picture with which he is suffering. Now it is not that the action with the patient coordinator itself is enough, but it is an important measure. In the future, the solution lies in establishing comprehensive treatment courses with individual deadlines and clear funding. A good example of this is the Danish cancer care package. The patient coordinator is an important and correct step in the right direction, and I am convinced that this will be an important matter for a new bourgeois government after the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1344	I want to thank the interpellant, because he's dealing with an important theme. Specialist services have a legal obligation – we were told: a patient coordinator should be created for patients in need of complex, long-term and coordinated services. Now I see that the debate is a lot about cancer coordinators, but I understand that this was an offer that would go to all patients, regardless of diagnosis, who needed complex, long-term and coordinated services, and that there had to be an assessment of what kind of patients it was. One was to ensure the follow-up of the individual patient, so that coordination of the provision of services and progress in work could ensure an individual level — in short, that patients’ rights were taken care of. I want to say that it is actually a little sad that we need patient coordinators in the healthcare system, because ideally this should have been handled by the departments and the treating doctor. But I fully agree that as the health service has been, this is necessary in the specialist services, and I also want to be very clear that once we have legalized this as an obligation to perform the specialist services, it must be followed up by healthcare professionals. We had the discussion about whether it should be a doctor or other health care professional, when this was adopted. There was a broad consensus that one could open up in order that there was no need for a doctor, but from then on that this would be a new position in the healthcare system to drive and find out from health professionals, I would warn against. In many departments it's natural that it's ugly, but if it's more suitable for some places that it's not a doctor, don't promise to forbid it. I also see that many municipalities actually create similar settings. They call it patient coordinators, but as I understand it, there are settings that are for ready-to-print patients. This shows that there is a health service that needs patient coordinators in several areas. To the discussion about becoming a right: I very much agree with the representative Håkon Haugli in what he said about a law-based health care system that goes too far, and I am uncertain whether the opposition should attach the individual right to diagnosis. Should there be only one right for cancer patients? There may be other patient groups that have an equal need for it. My clear position is that we have to make today's system work in all hospitals and in all health regions, and that it is the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1357	I noticed that the representative Toppe warned about a new type of position in the healthcare system to be found among health professionals. As I see today's arrangement with the patient coordinator, of the way the health minister described it – which can also be, as I understand the proposal, the standard – is precisely the kind of position that the representative Toppe warned against, while the purpose of the existing scheme, which is not sufficiently implemented, is for the patient to have one person, preferably a doctor, to deal with in the specialist health service, which should also be the one responsible for coordinating against the community health service. I believe this is a system that has become even more necessary in 2013 than it was in 2000, when it was introduced, precisely because the health care system today is more fragmented, more specialised – a problem that I also know the representative Toppe has been very concerned about. I don't think we can go back to the fact that you have doctors in specialist health care who are more generalists, who can handle most, precisely because medicine has become more complicated. Patients then need to have a doctor — largely — to deal with. I also think it's an advantage for the health service to have people who have a complete responsibility for the patients, and not just rely on the system to perform that role. The issue of rating fixing is interesting. I agree with Mr Hauglis’ more general considerations – that we need to be reticent about how much health care is going to be attached, and do so in the absolutely necessary areas. But I don't think it's an argument that can thus be used against any proposal to strengthen patients' rights. It should be linked to completely central functions, and I think this is a central function. It is a logic that when it is an obligation to offer a service, it should also be an individual right to receive the service. Last week, the patient and user representatives had a nationwide meeting in which the Minister of Health was present on the first day. I was there the other day. Their feedback – because they knew this was a problem – to the Stortinget was that, as they said, they unanimously recommended the Stortinget to go in for a right-holders' fixation of this scheme, precisely because their experience is that when patients need it, they also need a right-holders' fixation, just to get the scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1368	I think the big picture is that there's no big disagreement about these questions. We have a decision to refer to in Stortinget. We have decided to refer to health regions and regional health businesses towards hospitals. Tomorrow, in the context of the cancer strategy, I will again underline the expectations we have for this. It's like the head of the Health and Care Committee, the interpellant, very comprehensive says, that it's a more complex healthcare system. There are people with serious illness, and then we need this coordinate role. I also agree with the representative, Toppe, that – one can in some way regret it – if it had been more transparent, simpler, you wouldn't have needed it. But this is a proposal that has come because we need to assist patients. The question from the interpellant was: When can the Minister of Health say that everyone has it? I just have to answer that the goal is that it should be put in place as quickly as possible, and in a good form as possible. I just want to repeat that when we propose to be able to soften up who it is that is the coordinator in such a situation, it doesn't mean that it can't be a doctor. If that is reasonable and the right thing in the circumstances, I assume that the responsible hospital will pay attention to it. But there could also be cases where there's a reason to see a little bit wider on it, and then it becomes a balance. If in the practical hospital routine it turns out to be very complicated to get a coordinator if it has to be a doctor, isn't it better that there might be another person with good health experience who can play the role that guides through a complex system? I would also like to thank the interpellant for bringing up this topic, for having remembered it. It's probably more than a hobby that he's brought it up, it's probably from good parliamentary work. I can tell you that in an otherwise very good and impatient cancer strategy, which we are presenting tomorrow, this is prominent in target area 2, where it says that Norway will become a precursor country in terms of good patient outcomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1382	The debate on substance is closed. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1396	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1411	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1425	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1439	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1453	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1467	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1481	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1495	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1509	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1523	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1537	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1548	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1623	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1633	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1675	SV has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1689	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1697	During the debate, Mr Tende has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 64 on health professionals, etc. Section 29(c) Information for use in learning and quality assurance shall be amended as follows: ‘If the patient agrees, information on the subject may be provided on specific request to other healthcare professionals who have previously provided the patient with health care in a specific course of treatment, if the supply is justified in the interests of learning and quality assurance. The supply referred to in the first subparagraph shall be limited to the information necessary and relevant for the purpose. The patient record sheet shall document who has been provided with the information and what information has been provided, cf. § 40.» § 45 a Epicrisis shall be replaced by the following: «If the patient agrees, an epicrisis shall be transmitted from the healthcare institution to the inpatient or referee healthcare professional, to the healthcare professional who needs the information in order to provide the patient with proper follow-up, and to the patient’s permanent physician. Epicrisis should also be transmitted during outpatient or specialist treatment. The patient shall receive a copy of his or her own epicrisis after examination/treatment in the specialist healthcare service. If it is not possible to send epicrisis at the same time as discharge, the epicrisis shall be transmitted within a reasonable time after the end of health care. Epicrisis means a summary of the available data relating to the examination or treatment of a patient that is necessary for the continued treatment or follow-up of the patient in healthcare. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the obligation after the first and second subparagraphs, including the sending of epicrisis, the information to be included in the epicrisis and the sending of the epicrisis.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1803	Alternatively, between the proposal of the Left and the Committee's suspension to I, new Section 29 and new Section 45a.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1816	A vote shall be taken on the Committee's position at II to V in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1826	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1836	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1844	During the debate, Kari Kjønaas Kjos has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 2 of July 1999 62 on the establishment and implementation of mental health protection, new § 5-6(c) shall be replaced by the following: § 5-6(c) Warning to offended and survivorsIf it is of importance for offended persons in the criminal proceedings or their survivors, the prosecution authority shall provide offended persons or their survivors with information on decisions referred to in Sections 5-2 and 5-4. The alert also includes information on transfers between different levels of security within the same institution. Where it is of particular importance for offended or abandoned persons, the prosecution authority shall also notify the time of individual leave. Where it is of importance for offended persons in the criminal proceedings or their survivors to be aware that convictions do not comply with the judgment on the transfer to compulsory mental health protection, the prosecution authority shall, as soon as possible, inform the offended person or his survivors of the avoidance. Where it is of importance for offended persons in the criminal proceedings or their survivors to become aware of the date of termination of the judgment on compulsory health protection, the prosecution authority shall give prior notice to offended persons or their survivors. The professional responsible shall provide the prosecution authority with the information necessary for the purposes of notification after the first to third subparagraphs. The obligation of professional secrecy shall not prevent the prosecution authority from providing information after the first to third subparagraphs to the offended person or his survivors. Nor does the obligation of professional secrecy prevent the professional responsible and the prosecution authority from exchanging the necessary information relevant for alerting after the first to third subparagraphs. The provisions of the first to third subparagraphs shall apply only to the extent that it is offended or its survivors so desire and to the extent that the safety of convictions is adequately taken into account. Judgments, insults and their survivors may appeal against notification decisions after the first and third paragraphs of the State. The Ministry may lay down detailed rules on the alert requirement after the first to fifth subparagraphs.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1952	There is a vote on the Committee's position on Section I, Section 4A-6(a) of the vote. The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1967	An alternative is to vote between the Committee's position on Paragraphs 5-6(c) and the proposal of the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The left has announced that they will vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1981	The Committee's attitude to the rest of I and II in the vote are then voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e1991	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e2001	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e2063	The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e2076	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Left will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e2090	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e2110	In Case No. No voting theme is available. Voting in Case No 10 to 20
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e2116	Case No. 10–20 are the second time legal proceedings. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-03.ana.ud181e2271	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
