ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e22	The representative, Mr Jørgen Bekkewold, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e25	I have the pleasure on behalf of the representatives Knut Arild Hareide, Olaug V. Bollestad, Rigmor Andersen Eide and myself to promote a proposal for a representative to set up a professional selection for the literature industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e30	The representative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e47	The voters have given a clear mission to the new bulk. It is about prioritising the most important thing, about facilitating growth and increased well-being, both for today's generation and for future generations. Norway is dependent on policies that promote growth. It will provide a more robust economic foundation for our welfare society. The well-being of the future depends on growth and good use of resources in the mainland economy. It is in this way that we can best build the country further. It is in this way that we can provide enough nursing homes, good enough schools, more safe workplaces and a good safety net for those outside. The voters have clearly stated that they want new policies, not just new governments. With this supplementary proposition, we're taking the first steps for a new and better direction. In the proposition we find clear footprints that point towards more freedom, greater security and a simpler everyday life for people most and for businesses. The new government has only had a few weeks to change a red-green budget. We have made important changes in a short time. We propose – in line with the Health Declaration – growth-enhancing tax incentives that will make it more profitable to work and invest a boost in knowledge and research more to health and care increased commitment to transport a strengthened policy on asylum and justice We're going to do this without increasing public expenditure. We give priority to areas that are important to most people, not just more to everything. We give priority to areas that can provide growth and competitive jobs. Let me stress that there is a lot that is good in Norway. There is also a lot in the red-green budget that the Right-Fremskritsparte government agrees with. Nevertheless, there are areas that need to be improved and concrete measures are promoted in this proposition. In the government platform, the right-hand side and the front-hand side have flashed out eight main bet areas. We deliver concrete measures to everyone. With this additional proposition, we are starting to turn the Norwegian economy in a better direction, recognizing that values must be created before they can be shared – a direction in which we invest more in the future. It is important that we draw a clear distinction between consumption and investment to a greater extent than in recent years. Investing more of Community resources in infrastructure, knowledge and growth-promoting tax incentives will help to strengthen and ensure future well-being. The government's aim is to give priority to the most important thing. This will require the creation of a ground for future growth and well-being. Then it must be invested for the future. It is not only a question of how much money is spent, but also of how the money is spent. The government believes that it is possible to streamline and red tape. The aim is to increase growth and competitiveness, reduce red tape and make more responsible use of taxpayers’ money. It will provide a simpler everyday life for most people. The proposals the government promotes are clear steps in such a direction, in line with both the Health Declaration and the Cooperation Agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left. In the Sundvolden Declaration, we stressed that the use of oil money should be adapted to the economic situation within the framework of the Code of Action. Growth in the mainland economy seems to have slowed down in the last few years. It may be transitory, but it may also be because growth is now slowed by the high level of costs and high levels of household debt. The establishment of the State budget and increasing demand from the oil industry are expected to contribute to a growth in the mainland economy near the normal next year. Unemployment is expected to remain at today’s level in 2014, a level that is low in both Norwegian and international contexts. Fund capital is now growing very rapidly, interest rates are low, and capacity utilisation in the Norwegian economy is close to normal. It would be far too expansive if we now increased the use of oil revenues up to the expected fund return – the so-called 4 pst. path. It would undermine the growth capacity and stability of the mainland economy. At the same time, we need to use the economic space in Norway to invest in the future – in growth-enhancing measures. Work is clearly our most important resource. 80 pst. of our net national wealth per capita is the present value of future labour input. The State pension fund and the remaining petroleum assets on the continental shelf account for only 8 pst. It will therefore strengthen our prosperity if we use oil money to stimulate more people to work. The same applies when we prioritise investments that can increase the value of what we produce, even more. In this additional proposal, we propose concrete measures to this end, in particular through the tax regime. How oil money is used is absolutely central. When the Storting joined the action rule, it was emphasised that the increase in the use of oil revenues should be directed towards measures that could increase productivity, and thus growth capacity, in the rest of the economy. A unanimous financial committee pointed out that fiscal policy and investment in infrastructure, education and research are important in order to improve the functioning of the economy. Wide tax relief can stimulate saving and higher labour supply. Tax relief thus affects not only total demand but also production capacity in the economy. The Norwegian economy grew very strongly in the years ahead of the financial crisis and recovered rapidly after the crisis. At the same time, we are facing challenges that need to be addressed in economic policy. The first is our high cost level. Ten years of high oil prices have raised total demand, both from the private sector and from public budgets. Capacity utilisation is high and unemployment is low. Cost growth has come out of line with the development of our trading partners. Good prices of Norwegian products have helped to safeguard the profitability of the private sector. Nevertheless, Norwegian companies are now very vulnerable, not least in the case of oil prices. In the future, growth in costs in Norway must be more in line with developments in countries around us. The government will cooperate with the social partners to get this done. Strong growth in real wages and low interest rates has made it tempting for many households to buy new dwellings, financed by borrowing. Debts and housing prices have risen at high levels. The high housing prices and the large debt of households pose risks of a significant adjustment in the housing market. This can lead to a marked setback in the Norwegian economy and threaten financial stability. Financial stability considerations require that decisions on increased capital requirements vis-à-vis banks be followed up. In the long term, welfare development in Norway is primarily determined by the growth capacity of the mainland economy. Then productivity is crucial. Growth in productivity continued well over the 1990s and up to 2005. Important structural reforms were carried out during that period. In recent years, productivity growth has been weak and clearly weaker than real wage growth. The gap between real wage growth and productivity weakens the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises and makes Norwegian jobs less secure. In the supplementary proposal, we propose several measures that can correct this. Investments in the mainland economy have been low in recent years. This has probably contributed to the weak development of productivity. Now the government is proposing tax reliefs that will make investing more profitable. We are proposing a boost to innovation and knowledge, which can also help productivity growth. The government’s efforts to increase competition, deregulation and red tape will also stimulate productivity growth. The government will bring down a productivity commission to seek advice on how to increase productivity growth again. The new government will replace eight years of reform drought with new and better solutions where necessary. Economic growth also depends on our total labour input. We have a high level of employment, while the average working time is below many of our trading partners. The labour input per capita is therefore no higher than the average among EU countries. At the same time, we have many in social security. The proportion of out of work due to illness and disability is higher in Norway than in many other countries. Reducing this proportion is a demanding but central challenge. Ageing of the population will greatly increase public expenditure on pensions, health and care. Only a small part of this can be financed by the income from the pension fund. Reforms and structural changes are therefore required to ensure future well-being. The government will create a generational perspective on economic policy, including: using a greater share of the government budget for growth-promoting investments. Budgetary policy and monetary policy must work together to contribute to a stable development in demand and production. Money policy is our first line of defence against fluctuations in production and employment. The Government considers an increased use of oil revenues from 2013 to 2014 corresponding to 0,5 pst. of the GDP of mainland Norway, is well adapted to the situation in the Norwegian economy. Priority has been given to measures to stimulate value creation and promote growth, including tax havens. The previous government was only concerned with the demand side of the economy when assessing the use of oil money. We are also concerned about the offer page, and how the money is used. Measures that stimulate more people to work will increase their growth capacity and reduce cost pressures. The use of oil revenue is increasing by 3.9 billion. from the proposal to the Government of Stoltenberg II. Measured against the share capital, the use of oil income is estimated to be 2,9 p.m., the same as in the Stoltenberg Government’s proposal. This is how we take care of the generation perspective. This is how we ensure freedom of action to face future financial setbacks. This is how we ensure that budgetary policy is robust if the fund's return is to be lower than the expected 4-percent. And that's how we take care of businesses that fight hard in tough international competition. The Norwegian tax system brings in billions of dollars. kr. Tax revenue is the main source of funding for public expenditure, which amounts to 57-58 pst. by the value creation in mainland Norway. It is a very high level of expenditure compared to most OECD countries. Tax is not an objective but a means of ensuring common resources, social mobility and better resource use and providing good framework conditions for Norwegian business. While the previous government increased tax and tax burden, this government will reduce total taxes and taxes, both for businesses and for people the most. Tax bill is not something we give, it's taxes and taxes we don't want to take. We do that in order to spread power, increase value creation and to give families and individuals greater freedom over their own lives and income. The government wants to streamline the Norwegian economy. That means that we need to get more out of the resources we use, and make sure that we have more value creation. It's about managing the people's money with care and respect. The tax system plays a crucial role in achieving these objectives. The tax system can be improved to provide a basis for more secure jobs, growth and increased well-being. Changes in the tax system should make saving, investing and working more profitable. If we get to this, we will succeed in creating increased growth in the future. That is precisely why, in the proposal for an additional proposal, we have priority reliefs that contribute to growth. This is based on knowledge of how different taxes affect resource use and economic growth. We will also work to red tape and simplify the Norwegian economy. We want a simpler everyday life, including: by simplifying current tax rules and being critical of the introduction of new, complex rules. The biggest and most important tax approach now being taken is to reduce the general income tax rate for all from 28 to 27 p.m. – also for employees. The previous government proposed such a reduction only for companies. Reducing the rate of corporation tax is a wise change. It is right to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry. However, it is unwise to reduce corporation tax without reducing the tax on other income accordingly. The government is proposing to correct this bias. This means that we remove a room for customization. At the same time, the tax burden on ordinary employees is reduced. Lower pay taxes are also about increasing individual freedom. Being able to determine more about your own income is a matter of value. Lower wage taxes are thus a tax-economic pushover: more freedom for ordinary employees, increased growth for the Norwegian economy and increased labour supply for Norwegian enterprises. The sum of these becomes a tax change that is correct and important to do. Therefore, this tax change should be implemented. The government is concerned that broad groups will benefit from tax relief. We are proposing a greater increase in the rates of the minimum deductions than the previous government proposed in its draft budget. An increase in the tax on electricity, as proposed by the Stoltenberg government, is, in our view, an unsocial policy that affects those who serve the least. We therefore propose to reduce the electricity charge compared to the Stoltenberg administration. The government draws the previous government's proposal to change the rules on living time in the income tax on housing. That proposal appears to be a complex piece of legislation. The government is concerned about young first-time start-ups trying to get into the housing market. The government therefore proposes to increase the annual savings amount of the BSU scheme to NOK 25 000 and to raise the ceiling to NOK 200000. It will be a loving contribution for young people who want to establish themselves with owner-occupied housing. The government will stimulate more environmentally friendly behaviour. Therefore, the government maintains the previous government’s proposal to increase greenhouse gas charges. That's not all we can do in a few weeks' time in government. It is all the more joy for me to convey that the government proposes to remove the inheritance fee from 1 January 2014. The inheritance tax is an unfair and unnecessary tax. It affects family-run businesses, but also, to the most extent, ordinary people who inherit their parents. Many adapt to the inheritance fee. Therefore, the inheritance tax is distorted. The removal of the inheritance tax is a wise way to ensure that ordinary people respect the tax policy in Norway. The right-hand party government is engaged in the competitiveness of Norwegian business. This is important for Norwegian ownership, Norwegian workplaces and Norwegian welfare. We therefore propose several improvements for Norwegian companies in the 2014 tax regime. Lower taxes on profits in companies are mentioned. The property tax rate is reduced by 0,1 percentage point. It stimulates saving and investment and is good for private Norwegian ownership. The Government maintains the proposal to introduce initial write-offs for machinery and other equipment in balancing group d. At the same time, we are embarking on work to assess the depreciation rules in the light of impairment of operating resources. We also strengthen our commitment to research and development. The TAX FUNN scheme is extended. The Government maintains essentially the government's proposal to limit the deduction of interest between related companies. The proposal is necessary to close tax gaps and to protect the Norwegian tax base. In addition, it will make it easier for businesses operating only in Norway to compete with multinational companies that have so far had great opportunities to exploit differences in tax rules between Norway and other countries. We have faith in growth-enhancing tax incentives to strengthen and streamline the Norwegian economy. In particular, this tax scheme reduces the tax rate on general income and wealth, as well as the removal of the inheritance tax, which will contribute to it. Lower tax rates on labour, saving and investment can have significant dynamic effects. Thus, we get some of the tax relief back from higher growth giving greater tax input. It's uncertain how strong this effect is. Based on various research work based on Norwegian and international data, a sober estimate is that between 10 and 30 pst. the tax relief over time will find the way back as increased revenue for the public. In this proposal, we are providing a new direction in fiscal policy. This will be noticed by the vast majority of taxpayers already in 2014. The proposal facilitates both people and businesses. About half of the personal tax relief goes to those who have revenues between 350 000 and 1 million. kr. This is where most employees are located. This is a group that has received little tax relief in recent years. A normal family with two employees who have an average salary and an average loan will receive income tax relief of up to NOK 3000 with the government's proposal. In this tax system, the government shows that we use the tax system to stimulate growth, greater freedom and better framework conditions for business. It's a line this government will follow in the future as well. The Scheel Committee has been set up to assess corporate tax in the light of international developments. The sample shall emphasise that the proposals contribute to the efficient use of resources and the best investment opportunities for enterprises. It will make the tax system more growth-enhancing. The current mandate of the selection board is assumed to be neutral in terms of proceeds. As this government will reduce the level of taxation, the Ministry of Finance will also consider proposals that, overall, provide net tax relief. Moreover, as far as the countries around us have gone to reduce the corporate tax rate, it is more realistic that a follow-up in Norway will require relief. The government has great ambitions for the transport sector. Effective communication provides the basis for increased value creation and exports. Effective solutions for public transport make everyday life easier for people most, and less central areas can become good residential areas, reducing the pressure on the housing market. And, not least, the productivity of business is increasing with more efficient traffic management. In the Health Declaration, we give direction for important changes in the way we plan and implement the infrastructure effort. Effective implementation of planning processes and the creation of a development company for the efficient development of selected road projects, with which we are now starting work, will be enhanced. A separate road carrier and an infrastructure fund are structural interventions that are expected to have a significant impact in the coming years. Parts of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs are transferred to the Ministry of Transport. This brings together all modes of transport. It will contribute to better coordination of actions and facilitate conditions for more freight transport by sea. The Government is increasing the proposal to grant national road and rail routes by nearly 1450 million. kr. The Government establishes its own infrastructure fund. It will contribute to a promise in the years to come. The fund will be allocated to 20 billion. kr in 2014. The government has great ambitions when it comes to investing in infrastructure. Targeted securing work in existing tunnels is important in order to increase road safety. The government proposes a significant strengthening of this work. In addition, the government's proposal provides room for up to 100 km more roads to be repatriated. Increased maintenance of the railway is also proposed. The county roads are given a significant lift. We do this both through increased transfers to county councils and through the continuation of the interest compensation scheme. This will contribute to better maintenance and increased renewal of the county roads. The government is adding up to increased activity in the planning of new transportation projects. Good planning is necessary to prevent exceedances of costs and to ensure rapid implementation. Traffic security measures and public transport are strengthened through increased funding proposals for the programme areas. In the Sundvolden Declaration, we presented an ambition to reduce the share of tolls in new projects. In line with this, the government proposes that E134 Seljord–Amot should be built without tolls. The challenge of public transport is high, especially in the major cities. The government is therefore committed to ensuring an offensive expansion of the collective offer. In summary, there is no doubt that the Right-Fremskritsparti-government in the supplementaryproposition provides for a more offensive Norwegian infrastructure policy. And we did this in a few weeks. Good welfare services are fundamental to providing people with security and opportunities. A well-funded, diverse and publicly funded health service is a pillar of the welfare society. With its changes in the 2014 government budget, the government shows that we give priority to health and care, through both increased resource use and improved solutions. We strengthen the social security network by helping those who need it the most. We increase the quality and capacity so that patients get better help faster. This is a budget that goes in the right direction for patients, for employees and for relatives in the Norwegian health system. Waiting times are shorter and health cows are reduced compared with the Stoltenberg government proposal a few weeks ago. The government will increase the activity of the specialist health service. We are therefore increasing the subsidy to the health regions in comparison with the government's proposal. In total, the subsidy to health enterprises will increase by 2.7 billion. kr from 2013 to 2014. In the past, healthcare companies have never received funding for such a large growth in patient treatment. Compared to the Stoltenberg government, we propose an increase of 300 million. kr to the specialist health service. Of this, 255 million is going to be. kr to increase purchases from private and non-profit institutions active in the field of mental health protection, alcohol and rehabilitation. The remainder is intended to increase the purchase of radiological services from private individuals. The share of input-driven financing increases from 40 to 50 pst. in 2014. It gives incentives for increased patient treatment. The Government will launch work to introduce neutral VAT into the State sector. Neutral value added tax will make health businesses freer to choose the most effective way to operate and not have to opt out of private solutions. The government will strengthen the supply of drugs and psychiatry. The subsidies to the health regions will create a good room for this. Health business mission documents will require that treatment in the field of drug and mental health should have an annual growth rate higher than that of somatic care. The government will reintroduce earmarked funds to ensure that municipalities have good remedies. With the government's proposal, the care of the elderly in the municipalities will be strengthened. We improve the grant scheme for municipalities that build nursing homes and homes. The State shall cover a greater share of the costs and the maximum cost of construction in press areas shall be increased. An increase of 500 places from the Stoltenberg Government’s proposal shall be promised. The elders shall not dwell in double rooms against their will. Older people who have to do so will have to pay a reduced price in 2014. Thus, municipalities are stimulated to provide individual rooms for all. Individual security is a high priority of the Right Party Government. Visible and present police are important for the security of society. That's why the government proposes to grant 100 million. kr in addition to that proposed by the Stoltenberg Government. This frees up to 90 years' worth of work on the police’s core tasks. The government is working towards a target of two officials per 1000 inhabitants in 2020. For the government it is of great importance that there is a balance in the criminal justice chain. Manning in the courts is proposed to be increased so that they can keep the proceedings down even after the police activity has increased. The boning capacity is proposed to be increased by 70 enclosed spaces. This reduces the pay queue, and this allows us to make enough custody places available to the police. The government is also proposing to increase emergency personnel to ensure robustness in the sharp area of the police. The government strengthens civil defence with additional funds for investment in necessary equipment. These are important measures in the right direction to create a safer everyday life for most people in Norway. Several foreign nationals without a residence permit in Norway are to be sent out. The government will increase the number of forced returns by 1,800 in addition to the available targets of 4,900. This will facilitate more return of asylum seekers with final rejections, asylum seekers in Dublin procedure, and those who are absent and expelled. The government is also concerned that the processing time in the foreign administration should become more effective and that the processing time should be reduced. It is important for the government to practice a strict line towards people who do not have legal residence in Norway, while facilitating the integration and inclusion of law-abiding people with the right of residence. This draft budget shows the action needed to achieve these objectives. The government's policy is based on respect for knowledge. Knowledge creates social mobility and increased opportunities for individuals. When we focus on knowledge and competence, we also make jobs safer and ensure long-term well-being. The labour force is our most important resource. We have to use it well. It requires knowledge and competence. The Government proposes a number of measures to increase efforts for knowledge, research and innovation. Good teachers give good students. The Government proposes to strengthen measures for the further training of teachers. The rate of cover for temporary staff costs in the case of continuing training is increased and the State is required to pay a higher proportion of the expenditure. A new grant scheme shall be established for teachers who undertake further training on their own. Universities and higher education institutions shall be allocated resources to expand the provision of continuing education for teachers. In addition, online training solutions for teachers shall be developed. The Government proposes several measures to improve vocational and vocational training. Most important are those who allow more to complete upper secondary education. The apprenticeship grant will be increased and a new grant scheme will be established to stimulate more enterprises to take in apprentices. In addition, the government proposes the means to correct the common subjects professionally, so that teaching becomes more practical and relevant. The government proposes to increase the results-based funding of universities and higher education institutions. It is proposed to upgrade laboratories and modernise the equipment park. Training aid in the 2014-2015 educational year is proposed to be increased by 3.65 pst. This increases purchasing power and improves students' opportunities for full-time studies. The government prioritises this rather than eleven months of study support, which would only have had an impact in the 2015 government budget. The government proposes that public research and development efforts increase by 1.7 pst. compared to the proposal of the Stoltenberg Government. More attention shall be paid to research in nanotechnologies, biotechnology and ICT. In addition, increased appropriations for petroleum research and marine research are proposed. More is proposed for the User-Directed Innovation Arena of the Research Council, measures for increased participation in European research cooperation, for the Food and Drug Administration. A PhD scheme for the public sector is also to be established. In order to stimulate research and development in industry, the TaxFUNN scheme is also strengthened. The government proposes £29.5 billion. SEK for research and development in 2014. This is 2.1 billion. kr more than in 2013 and corresponds to a real growth of 4,1 pst. There have been some intense weeks when the new government has put clear traces on the budget that the previous government has promoted for the Storting. The government has turned the budget in a new and better direction. These are the first steps, and we have plans for much more in the years to come. The proposal for an additional proposition is amendments that benefit many, regardless of whether they voted in the government parties or other parties at the elections. This government is not a special interest agency, but a government that wants to take Norway in a better direction for everyone. We are committed to strengthening well-being, improving school life, cutting health cows, increasing freedom for people most, investing more in infrastructure and ensuring a safer everyday life by strengthening police, security and preparedness. We have to prioritize. It requires that we look critically at how the money is used today. It is the task of the government and the Storting to ensure that people's money is managed in the best possible way. That is why we need to dry up reform, streamline, ensure quality and modernise the public sector. Only in this way can we meet the future challenges in a good way. Only in this way can we ensure greater well-being, greater growth and more freedom and security for most people. There are major tasks ahead of government and magnification. The aim of this government is not to spend as much money as possible on public consumption. The ambition is to get the best possible services and well-being for every penny we spend on people's money. That is why this is not a competition against the red-green budgets. We cut where we can and should cut, and we strengthen the areas that need to be strengthened. Overall, this government's policy is to achieve results that are marked by people in everyday life, and not the greatest possible expenditure in budgets. Eight years of reform drought have led to less growth and more expensive Norway. The next few years will be marked by new solutions where necessary. I look forward to constructive debates and negotiations in Stortinget. Good ideas from Stortinget will not be automatically countered and ignored by the government. On the contrary, we will listen to recordings and come up with good solutions in common for the country. That's what politics is about, regardless of batch color. In the supplementaryproposition, the Right-wing Party Government has proposed important re-priorities that will take several steps in the right direction in Norway. This proposal prioritises growth, well-being and action for an even better Norway. Good luck with good negotiations in the Great Britain.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e241	The President will propose that a comment round be opened now, in line with what is also the practice of the financial languages, but the contributions from each party group will be limited to 3 minutes this time. After each post from the opposition parties, the Minister of Finance will have up to 2 minutes to comment/answer on questions. Thereafter, the representatives of the opposition parties shall be given the opportunity to comment on a final opinion of up to 2 minutes each. Furthermore, it is proposed that a comment by the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister be opened up to 3 minutes at the end of the debate. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e250	Congratulations to the Minister of Finance. This finance minister came to the best-secured table some finance ministers have come into existence in recent times: a country with an economy order, many in work, low unemployment, sound government finances and innovative businesses. I think any finance minister in the world would gladly trade with her. The finance minister says she's had a short time with this budget. No, she's had eight years. There are alternative budgets in the Grand Duchy, and electoral elections are held in the memory of voters. Measured against these promises is what we have been presented this morning, characterized by retreats, lifting breaks and a silent nodding to the main thrust of the budget of the Stoltenberg government. The first thing that meets us in this proposal is that the government parties, which a few weeks ago thought Norway was using seven out of ten crowns of oil wrong, are choosing to increase the use of oil money. It is difficult to see the Right parliamentary leader said a few weeks ago: that it was natural to re-prioritize at least 30 billion. kr, move around the budget. The Minister of Finance says that we can experience a slowdown in the economy, and is alarmed at a high cost level – and then she increases the use of oil money. It is common for Stortinget to base the Ministry of Finance's estimate, but I note that the blue-blue government is using more oil money to meet expensive election promises. There is a high game in the situation of Norwegian business today, with low interest rates and low interest rates. We're going to meet this budget with an open mind and read the documents carefully. Where there are good suggestions – and I have heard someone – we shall be in favour. But we already see the contours of an alternative direction that we think is wrong – a direction for increasing differences between people. The government believes that fair distribution is not a goal in itself. The tax bills they propose – as I have read the supplementary proposal – give a few hundred copies to people with ordinary incomes and about NOK 40,000 to those with incomes above 2 million. kr – a clear direction, a direction for increased differences between cities and districts by cutting it off into key regional policy instruments. We started the escalation towards two kindergarten admissions this year. This government is dropping it. It's poor well-being, and it's bad for the line of work. There is also the proposal for cuts in permitting schemes and cuts in action sites. We suggested that the students receive student support for eleven months, this government is dropping the target. We fulfilled the cultural promise, this government is reducing its ambition. This government weakens the ambition of climate policy, reverses the proposal for increased CO2 tax on high-emission cars, they cut the climate forest rate and the test centre at Mongstad. A red thread in this is a breach of promise. Where there is a change in course, it is in the wrong direction. In addition to that, we shall study the supplementary proposition carefully and be for what we are for, and contribute to good work in the intensive work of the Financial Committee in the week to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e274	Thank you for the good words of Gahr Støre. I look forward to discussing the state budget with the Labour Party in opposition. I might think that this first comment was marked by the fact that you had decided in advance what to say, and maybe not had listened as carefully to what the government was actually proposing. I understand that it is important for the Workers' Party to establish a story that the new government has inherited a good living. Much is good in Norway, but the government has also inherited many unpaid bills. We have inherited significant challenges that now become our job to clean up. An example of this is the large remains we see in the field of refugee and asylum. There are many people in reception waiting to be outsourced in Norwegian municipalities, and there are many people in reception waiting to be transported – in addition to all those we do not know where. It's part of the legacy of the Stoltenberg government that this government has to clean up. I think maybe when you're going to present a story, it should be a little bit more nuanced. I recognise that a lot is going well in Norway. The new government will take care of that. We see a growth for the next year around in line with the impact of the Stoltenberg government. We're also worried about some of the trends we see. Therefore, it is essential that we pursue a responsible economic policy that distorts money use so that we can stimulate more growth, more value creation and more productive and profitable investments – and this government has done so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e285	I was asked by a journalist about how Siv Jensen would respond to this proposal if it had been the other government that had submitted it. To get a guide, I read part of Siv Jensen's comments on the former government budget and thought that this might have been my template. I let it go, because I found out that it would be to shoot completely on the outside. Now it's like my short-term memory still works well. You just need the short-term memory to remember the election campaign. Short-term memory is needed to remember the proposals of the Progress Party for an alternative national transport plan. You just need the short-term memory to remember the tax promises. It's up to this we have to keep this budget. It's wrong that you've had a short time, you've had eight years. Now you have had the world's best offices to help you for three weeks – and then we get this result. Let me say it this way: there are things in this post that I support, in the field of drugs, psychiatry, the care of the elderly. Had the Stoltenberg government had 4 billion. extra tax dollars to consider using, I think we could suggest a good part of it. Now we're going to consider it very carefully, but that's how the picture the Council of State draws is, in my opinion, wrong in relation to the promises she's made to the voters, and what she's said in this room. So she mentions refugee and asylum policy, an important field, but that it should be the great legacy after the Stoltenberg government when we discuss economic policy, I have difficulties to see. But since she mentions this, I would say that I think it's a thought-provoking sign that in the time and the world we live in, the government chooses to halve the number of Syrian refugees Norway will receive. Looking at our neighbouring country Sweden, what they have received from refugees from Syria – the world’s largest humanitarian disaster in recent times – is the signal from Norway that we should halve the extremely cautious additional proposal we delivered. I think it's a bad sign, which means that we're not just increasing the differences in Norway, but we're sending the impression that we're also increasing the differences between Norway and the rest of the world – a bad signal from the world's richest country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e296	Let me first congratulate the government and the Minister of Finance on a good budget. My short-term memory may be even more weakened than the representative Gahr Støres, but what I remember at least is that inside and outside this room there has been no lack of warnings that a budget and economic governance from the Right and the Progress Party would mean an irresponsible economy, a rage of the Norwegian community economy – not to mention that agricultural policy and Norwegian agriculture and districts would be destroyed. On the contrary, we have received a budget in which one dares to give priority. It is necessary, for the covered table, which the Workers' Party leader is talking about, to consist of some shortcomings. It consists of having a significantly weakened productivity in this country, it consists of having a high cost level, the two-tiered Norwegian economy is problematic for very many mainland companies, and not least we need to take into account the future ageing of the population in the generation perspective, which is of course a particular concern. That is why we are giving priority to growth-promoting re-priorities in this budget. This, together with reductions in taxes and taxes, will mean that we can take care of the welfare society we have. Taking care of it means strengthening Norwegian jobs, that means strengthening Norwegian investment made by investors in this country, and strengthening savings. The moderate use of oil money in addition, for which the representative Gahr Støre is concerned, represents the continued sending of strong signals of discipline in the use of oil money. This is what is important in terms of the currency, to which Norwegian export companies are particularly vulnerable. There's nothing else in this oil money usage. On the contrary, oil money is used differently from that of the previous government. Let me conclude by saying that a large majority in this Chamber, i.e. the cooperation parties, agreed on a number of projects and initiatives that have just been mentioned and dealt with in individual cases in this budget: creating the values before they are shared, upgrading the infrastructure in Norway strongly, focusing on innovation, research and development, strengthening Norwegian business and, not least, facilitating more private Norwegian ownership. This budget is an excellent start to the work that Stortinget is now going to do, and we look forward to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e309	The President then gives the floor to the Siv Jensen Council. The President notes that the two government parties are not given the opportunity given to the opposition parties, and may still have seen Svein Fleet as the opposition representative. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e314	Today is a great day for the Progress Party. The presentation of the supplementary proposal for the 2014 State Budget means that the Right-front party government, together with our friends in the Christian People's Party and the Left, is now pointing out a new course for Norway. The economic situation in the world is very uncertain and insecure, and in Norway, too, unemployment is increasing. In recent years, Norwegian competitiveness has steadily weakened. Today, the first step is taken to correct this. Investments in road and rail next year are record high. This will lead to lower transport costs for both businesses and individuals. The tax and tax burden in Norway is today higher than it was eight years ago. Today, these developments are reversed and tax pressures are reduced. It will secure Norwegian jobs and provide more well-being to the individual. The government also gives clear leadership when it comes to red tape and simplification. It's important. The big money will now be spent on the important tasks, not on bureaucracy and detail management. In the last eight years, health cows have also increased. This budget means more money for health and also increases input-driven funding – from 40 to 50 pst. – which in turn means that it will pay to treat more people, and that more people will also receive treatment at the right time. Increasing crime has become a bigger and bigger problem. This budget means more money for the fight against crime. In areas by region the government delivers here, in spite of the short time that has passed. This is a budget that points out a new direction where not only four years ahead of time, but one generation ahead of time. Of course, it takes time to reverse Norway and correct everything we think should change, but this budget shows the government's action to ensure freedom and security. This is the first step to create a simpler everyday life for most people. The government and the Ministry of Finance have done a fantastic job here. This is particularly impressive when you consider the short time they've been wearing. I am therefore of the opinion that this budget is now as good as it can be, but we are nevertheless humble that the Christian People's Party and the Left in some areas may be of a different opinion. We'll talk more about that on Monday. Nevertheless, I am convinced that Norway and the Norwegian people will still be the great winner, even after those negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e340	Nor is the representative of the Hagesetter opposition politician anymore, so the President will pass the floor on to the representative Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e343	Thank you for that, and for the sake of order, I have to make it clear that I am an opposition politician – a constructive one. Congratulations to the Solberg Government, which has now presented its addition to the budget, and to the Minister of Finance in particular. I saw it in a newspaper headline: "There have been some nights where I am lying and worrying about the great responsibility." I note that we have received a responsible finance minister quite quickly, and I must say that Gjermund Hagesetter's praise to the Ministry of Finance also came very quickly. Never has the rule of action been more uplifted in this room than in the speech of the Minister of Finance. We're happy about that. I think I can see that Siv Jensen wants to keep order in the Norwegian economy, in the Norwegian economic house. I do not agree that the government came to any covered table. The number of persons employed between 25 and 54 is now 3 pst. during the period before the financial crisis came in 2008. It's a strong signal of danger. Unfortunately, productivity is on its way down. There is every reason to change the budget of the Stoltenberg government. We have a cooperation agreement. We see many tracks, again, in what was now presented – infrastructure, road and rail and research are given priority, care for the elderly is strengthened. We are very happy to give priority to drug abuse, rehabilitation and psychiatry in the health care community. A strengthened justice sector, I believe, is now necessary. I also noticed that the finance minister – I was about to say – almost said ‘morn’a’ at the inheritance fee. She didn't say it that way, but I realized that it was an extra pleasure to be able to say it, and we'll see to what extent it becomes a complete'morn'a' at that exact fee when we're done. We are facing this budget with a constructive attitude. I can just say that taking from the poorest to give to the richest is not the Christian People's Party's policy. Nor is it to increase the tax for 150 000 people in this country or to contribute to a severe need for care under the age of 67.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e366	Then the President will give the floor to the Council of State, Siv Jensen, for a comment of up to 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e369	I must be allowed to thank the representative Syversen too much praise for the additional proposition. This is a budget where we have made some clear priorities. I fully recognize that there are still a wide range of areas where we can make even more and clearer improvements, but this was what the government found room to do during the short weeks we have had the opportunity to work with the government budget. At the same time, we look forward to the cooperation that will now take place between the four cooperation parties in Stortinget. Hopefully that will make the budget even better, if I know the Christian People's Party and the Left Right. I also want to say that this is a growth budget. Sometimes, when you hear the social debate after a government's budget presentation, you can get the impression that it's not, but this is a growth budget in line with the growth estimates of the Stoltenberg government's budget. In fact, the government has done a lot of repriorities because we want to put some clear bets ahead of others. It's about better health and care, it's about faster and more efficient development of good infrastructure and transport, it's about a better knowledge society and it's about more security. These are important bet areas for which the two government parties have been involved in a long campaign, and for which we now see the results. Then it is that tax reductions are important if we are to improve conditions for growth and value creation. Major parts of Norwegian business are now facing significant challenges. The two-way distribution of the economy is a fact. Then we need to create conditions to secure jobs and make it possible to make investments for the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e382	We are definitely going into discussions to look at tax relief. But we have great problems in understanding that a government from the Right and the Advance Party also comes with tax austerity to ordinary people – let's call them the'most people' – for example. a minimum pensioner who is married to an employed person, who is in tax class 2. What is the reasonableness of their combined tax consolidation of NOK 10 000 to NOK 12 000? This is something we would like to discuss more closely with the Right Party and the Advance Party. We will discuss why the Right Party government has maintained the unsocial cut of the Stoltenberg government in the support of those who are heavily nurturing under 67 years of age, a cut of over 200 million. kr. We also want to discuss how to get a better and greener tax change than what it's added up to. And I think, as I said, that both the Right Party and the Advance Party know the Christian People's Party so well that they know that it's high on our agenda to avoid cutting to the world's poorest. We look forward to the negotiations. We have the goal that Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen can say, after the negotiations are over: a good budget has become even better!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e391	The great words, the beautiful promises, and all the clear proposals made by the great representative Jensen have become many adjustments made by the Minister of Finance Jensen. In many areas, we in the Centre Party are very pleased that not all of these proposals are being implemented, but in other areas it is directly harmful, namely when you create an impression of a change in tax that changes behaviour directly, and it is not implemented directly. The proposal to introduce tax deductions for an additional measure, contained in the Sundvolden Declaration, is a good proposal and changes behaviour. However, when we read the budget document now, there is no proposal for a modification of that document, and it will stop theincrease measures completely, it will affect individuals who intend to make an increase in their housing, and it will affect entrepreneurs who are setting rates for an increase in housing measures. If you notify tax changes that result in behavioural changes, you will need to implement tax changes immediately. Another such measure is the proposal to impose capital taxes on the sale of property. This is also a constructive proposal, but what happens when the government announces this in the Sundvolden Declaration, but does not follow it up in practical policy? What happens then is that the trading of property will stop, because people think that the government might come with the next year. You get the opposite of what you want – you don't get any more sales, you get less sales, and you put individuals, businesses and communities in a very big fix. A responsible government must follow up the clear promises it has in respect of taxes. If you don't create behavioral change that's of the negative, and that's not how a government can act. Another anti-business intervention in this draft budget is all the cuts made in innovation and district policy. Support for those who have new ideas and better solutions around Norway – for those who have new ideas and better solutions and who want to create new business activity but need a small helping hand from the public. Support for these is cut. A good example of companies hit by this type of cut is the Moods of Norway, which got a little start-up help through the innovation tool. The type of appropriations to be committed shall be reduced. I think it's unwise, I think it's a shame you don't want to bet on those people around in Norway who have good ideas and better solutions. Now I have to be a little positive in the end, because I see the Minister of Finance getting a little messy, and then I have to say that last year it was the complete crisis when we made this customs change – it was both a national crisis and an international crisis. I am pleased that politicians can change their positions, so that what last year was a crisis is now the Right and the Advance Party's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e402	I must say it is quite gratifying to see that the red-green field has released the roof of the representative Battle Violence Vedum! Calling for even more tax relief than the Right Party government has been able to do in this budget suggests that we can have another potential partner in the Storting in the years to come. I just want to mention that the sum of the tax reliefs proposed by this government is about the exact same size as the tax scarfs implemented by the Stoltenberg government eight years ago. So there's two arrows going in each direction, and it tells us one direction. I'm very happy that the Center Party is now looking for even more. With regard to the proposal from the Sundvolden platform on an additional measure, I can assure you that this is a proposal the government is working on further. It's also referred to in the supplementary proposition as a proposal we're working on. Similarly, we work with a ROT deduction, which we believe is also important to clarify. So Battle violence Vedum can only rejoice – there will be more in the next budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e411	It is good that we find something to rejoice about, but what I do not enjoy is unpredictability of taxes. When you notify tax changes, you have to implement it immediately. Therefore, tax – when you work with budget – is the area you have to be most careful about, precisely because you know that it causes behavioral change. Once tax changes have been notified, for example: in the case of an additional measure, nobody will invest in heat pumps if they believe that the following year they can receive a tax deduction. And who's hit by that? Yes, the entire industry and all the entrepreneurs who have invested in this and who have invested in predictable frames from government and big business. In addition to tax changes, on which we always have to make some adjustments, one of the most important things we can do as a magnification – and you as a government – is to create predictability, and what you have announced now is not predictability, and it is going to create many losers. Then there's one more thing that I want to comment on. I had the pleasure of being part of the previous government, and I remember the comments about last year's budget on transportation, where we got the impression that it was a crisis, and the Progress Party made a huge effort. And I remember the comments that were to the national transport plan. Also there we got the impression that there was a crisis, a lost bet, and the Progress Party was going to increase the budgets by 450 billion. kr in relation to what the previous government presented. And what's going on in this budget? There's maybe a five to six kilometers more by highway to be built next year. You have taken out the smallest toll project you could find. At home at the bar we would call this a little'magaplask'. I won't call it this. You'll have to assess it yourself.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e418	Initially, I had to congratulate the Minister of Finance and the government on the additional proposition. We know that there is a lot of work and coordination gymnastics behind, in a very short time. The proposal contains several tangential and colliding changes to the alternative government budget proposed by the Left this year. The starting point for the negotiations that we are about to enter into, ending with an even better result in Stortinget, is quite reasonable. At the same time, there are despondent things that are deficient – not least on areas such as climate, environment and public transport. We also find a cut in the extra proposition that disappoints groups that had hoped for greater changes and greater willingness to take a big hold. The students are one of those groups. Unfortunately, the government has – almost in good red-green tradition – removed what one was for in the election campaign: 11 months of study support. The left will fight for the Storting to take it back into the negotiations that we are now going into. Unfortunately, too, there are not too many traces of a large-scale commitment to the fight against poverty. And when the government also chooses to pass on the proposal to the Stoltenberg government to remove tax class 2, it will most likely lead to an increase in the number of children living in poor families in 2014 – if not when the Left gets an impact on the proposals in the alternative state budget, for example. free core time in kindergartens for children in low-income families. I'm also a little surprised that the government doesn't reverse the incomprehensible cut of the Stoltenberg government made in the arrangement for resource-requiring users of municipal care services. The government has inherited a major problem from the previous government: a heavy maintenance run on roads, school buildings, churches and not least the railway. The left, of course, welcomes the government's proposal to allow more money for railway maintenance, but 100 million. kr is not in the vicinity of being sufficient. Compared to the need, we're a little surprised that the government was no longer reaching out to fulfill a very important point in the cooperation agreement. The left proposes 2 billion. extra for the operation and maintenance of the railway in the alternative budget. It is absolutely necessary and will be a priority area in the negotiations over the next few days. Finally, a little bit about the tax regime: the left believes that the proposal to reduce corporate tax and reduce the deduction of interest on debt should have been postponed pending by the Scheel Committee's report. However, I am pleased that the government is now removing the inheritance tax and reverses the proposal on the income tax on dwellings. Here one in the Left is immediately ready to give the government support and provide a needed multiple. On the other hand, we are less pleased that the government is reducing the small, green tax change that the previous government proposed. If the climate agreement is to be strengthened, we now have to do a job in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e441	The left well defines itself as an opposition party, and then the President will give the floor to the Council of State, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e444	Thanks for the good feedback on the additional proposition, also from the Left. I am sure that the four cooperation parties will be able to make good changes when the negotiations begin in Stortinget, which will also put a Left and Christian People's Party footprint on the final result. I would like to make a comment on the subject of education: there is a budget that is heavily devoted to education. We give the students a record boost in education support. I think you should notice that, because it's a strengthening of the students' financial situation, compared to the current year. This will make the students feel better and not worse next year. In addition, there is a strong commitment to the education and research sectors, which together provide good growth for the next year. This is one of the areas where the government has invested and prioritised. It is probably possible to do even more and make it even better, and I am sure that the Left will use the opportunity to also influence the education and research budget in the forthcoming negotiations with the Right and the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e455	That's what the Minister of Finance says. There is no doubt that they are doing a lot of good in the field of education, and there are several of the proposals from the Left's alternative government budget that we can find in the constitution of the government: a lack of skills for teachers, which she was committed to education, increased research efforts, increased maintenance of the national road network, and not least a monthly increase in the commitment to care for Russians, to name a few. In all of these areas, however – if the Minister of Finance has studied our alternative government budget – we are going to go beyond what the government is doing now, and of course we have ambitions to get the government to join in on a stronger initiative in the Stortinget. I am also pleased that the Minister of Finance – at the beginning of the year – addresses the two-part division of Norwegian business. It's one of the really big challenges in the future Norwegian economy. But here, too, we're using a much stronger lye, which we think is absolutely necessary. Targeted measures are necessary to counteract an increasing two-tiered Norwegian economy in Norwegian business. If we're going to be able to reverse those developments, there's a number of tools that are not captured in the additional proposition, which we're now going to include in the negotiations in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e464	When you have to assure the Storting that you're not a special interest agency, I'm a little worried. I think that's the first time that's happened. The government is demonstrating with this budget that they are willing to sacrifice quite a lot to give tax relief to a few. Although the government has been sitting only a few weeks, the right parties have had many years to show their priorities in their alternative state budgets. So when the time has now come to be short – as the Minister of Finance is quite right – we get a good picture of what the Right and Advance Party really think is the most important priority, and I can almost hear all the way here to the staging room, all the champagne corks that pop up in the Holmenkol lock. This is done at the expense of some others: families with children throughout the country have been looking forward to more kindergarten admissions this year, with the predictability and security it provides, and students have celebrated the impact of what a massive majority of the Grand Duchy is for, namely, 11 months of student support. None of this has given priority to the Right and Advance Party. Even with more oil money available, the right-hand side takes advice on the implementation of education for families with children, students, knowledge and the environment. For years, the right-hand side has been talking about red-greens not being a priority, and they themselves are increasing the use of oil, without new prospects in the Norwegian economy to finance tax havens – not investments, reforms and new welfare offers. It is also cut in what is perhaps the biggest contribution Norway makes in the climate struggle, namely the rainforest bet. And 1 pst. The aid target, which has been a pole for eight years, is now gone. I think the Minister of Finance is quite right: what is most important to the government has come first. Therefore, the entire inheritance tax — one of the main taxes on redistribution and cohesion in Norway — is removed. The wealth tax is reduced, and the government is getting high and dark and saying that ordinary people also get tax breaks. That's right: ordinary income gets a few hundred grand in tax bills, while those who make over 200 million. kr per year, will receive more than NOK 40000 in tax vouchers. There's someone who's paying for this. There is not only an increase in the use of oil: Fewer refugees are allowed into Norway. Alone caregivers get less. It was cut in the back of the child. It was cut in the parental leave. The maximum price for kindergartens is going to go. I want to give the Minister of Finance just one thing: she has made important changes. That doesn't necessarily mean they're good. Some groups will be very pleased with this state budget, and I won't be surprised if it turns out to be a certain coincidence between these groups and those groups that contributed most to the Right and the Advance Party election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e500	I think it would be wise for the representative Serigstad Valen to read the supplementary proposition even a little bit more thoroughly, before he concludes what the government has actually proposed. This is a budget that is growing, so to speak, all areas from this year to next year. It's a growth budget. It's wrong to claim that children's families and students get worse with this budget. You'll be better off with this budget. They get better framework conditions for next year than they have this year. The students receive increased support for their studies. Children's families can benefit from broad tax relief, so there's also a claim I want to refute. This government has a tax arrangement that gives tax relief to everyone. I would like to remind you that the Progress Party and the Right have actually gone to the elections to reduce the tax burden in Norway. We said throughout the campaign that we would reduce taxes and charges. Now let's do that. We have said through the election campaign that it is necessary to reduce the strange wealth tax. Now let's do that. We do it because it's important that we secure Norwegian jobs in the future, and that's what this is all about. It is therefore true that the enterprise by enterprise after enterprise around this country – including small ones – has asked for relief from taxes on wealth so that it can secure the conditions for its employees so that they can make it possible for them to continue to make new investments for their own future. I am pleased that this government keeps it under law and has taken the first steps to provide broad tax relief both to business and to households.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e509	Some have tried to explain to the Prime Minister that the property tax is not very important for how Norwegian companies do it, and when they tried it, the sound of her phone stopped working. If the Minister of Finance is very satisfied with the efforts of the students, she can talk to the head of the student Ola Rydje in the hiking hall afterwards. There is a broad gap between rhetoric and actual policy in the budget that the Right and the Progress Party have presented. Making kindergartens more expensive is not investing in the future. Cutting back on support for families with children and single-parents is not giving people opportunities. And sending more women back to home, as the government actually says outright on page 143 of the proposition -- it's assumed that more women stay at home as a result of the changes the government is doing -- it's definitely not forward-looking. And having it means that ordinary people get a lot of the tax credits when ordinary income gets a few hundred patches, while those with million income get more tens of thousands, that's not very accurate. In short, the Minister of Finance has provided a budget that will increase differences in Norway, and that is as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e518	The Green Party strongly hopes that the new government and the civil four-party cooperation will pursue a better policy than the red-green government has done. The best thing that can happen to developments in Norwegian policy is if we get a competition between the right and the left that actually forces both parties to develop their policies forward and not sideways. That is why, in the short time we have had, we have read the budget as well as we could, we have listened to the Minister of Finance, and we find good intentions in the new budget. We are committed to research, which is essential for this society to evolve in the right direction. We are committed to knowledge development, which is necessary for new business development. And we find many examples of the most important thing, namely that even the Right Party and the Advance Party now see the need to introduce measures that move Norway in a sustainable direction, into their budgets. We see promising efforts on health care and on national health and hospital planning. We appreciate an increased investment in the elderly, and we find a good investment in the development of public transport. We also find individual measures that, in isolation, will facilitate the creation of new businesses in new industries. For example, cuts in inheritance may also contribute in that direction. We even find good environmental measures, such as maintaining the commitment of the previous government to increased forest protection, and we find an increase in the greenhouse gas tax. On the other hand, we are rather concerned that a budget that is primarily concentrated on increased Norwegian welfare is cutting our already minimal hospitality towards refugees from the disaster in Syria. In a completely different field, we see that environmental protection management, which is to take care of the natural basis and the basis of life in this country, is cut into a number of items. We see that the Food Authority, which is to safeguard the welfare of Norwegian farmed animals and other domestic animals in Norway, is being severely cut. And we see that the government later cut hard into one of the most important new international aid measures that Norway has launched, namely the great rainforest campaign. It also appears that strong cuts have been made in the efforts to cooperate with developing countries on renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e529	I'm afraid the time is up. The representative will have two more minutes, but first the Siv Jensen Council will have the floor for a comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e532	I'm sorry. Thank you. It was a rookie mistake.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e537	Let me first thank you for the rose that came from the Greens. I thought that was nice. Let me also clarify some misunderstandings. So it's not like the government cuts the number of Syrian refugees, but what we're doing is reducing the number of quota refugees in total. In addition, we have the challenge that there are many people in reception who are to be settled around the country, and the sum of it is a demanding challenge that the government has tried to give some answers to in the supplementary proposition. Then I also hear the claim that the government cuts in aid. So the 2014 aid budget is growing by over 1 billion. kr in relation to this year. It is true that the 1 pst target in relation to GNI has now reached 0.99 pst., but the aid budget is therefore growing by over 1 billion. kr. When referring to the changes that have been made, I notice that several of the reviews are about changes in relation to the submission from the Stoltenberg II government, but you have to measure the changes in relation to the current year, which is what we measure the changes in relation to. Then this is a growth budget. It is a budget that provides more funding for the cultural sector, the aid sector, the education sector, the transport sector, the health and care sector and the justice sector. Yes, almost all areas experience growth with the budget that has now been submitted. I'm glad. I am pleased with a government that has managed to make some clear priorities, and at the same time has found room for absolutely necessary tax relief.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e546	The Minister of Finance places considerable emphasis on growth. The Minister of Finance even stresses that the clearly most important thing for this government is increased growth in Norway and increased welfare in Norway. We live in a country that has already distanced so to say the whole world in terms of growth and well-being, while basing that growth and well-being on a business that everyone now recognizes to contribute to increasing global warming and thus undermining the life base of people around us and people who come after us. Is it the view of the Minister of Finance that in Norway we should continue to base the development of this country on such an activity, which we therefore know we cannot defend internationally and globally? Is that what is going to be the growth base of the welfare society we are going to have in the years to come, or will we reach this, or at least in the future budget, see a dramatic commitment to sustainable business that we are going to have to live on in just a few decades, if we are to listen to the United Nations Climate Panel?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e553	We have come to the end of the debate, and then the President will open up that either the Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance will have an intervention limited to three minutes. – It seems that Minister of Finance, Siv Jensen, is going to have the three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e558	Thanks for a good preliminary round of feedback from Stortinget. What is important for this government is that we now have a situation in which many of the important discussions and conversations are moved back to this room. We have behind us eight years when few, if any, decisions were made by the national parliament of the country. Now the decisions are to be taken by the national parliament of the country, and that's good. That is good for democracy and it is good for public debate. It is an important contribution because the government will thus listen to recordings coming from the opposition – it can be a good input, which the government will consider separately and collectively. It is a step forward for democracy, and I am pleased that we now have the opportunity to do so. I am proud of the budget presented today by the Right Party Government. We fulfill many of the promises we have made. We've taken some important steps towards the promises we made through the Sundvolden platform, and we've managed to do it in a very short time. It is only the 2015 budget that will be an entirely Right-wing-Fremskritsparte-budget. The work on that budget is going to start soon, but I believe that through these few weeks we have been able to turn the use of money in the direction we ourselves have announced that we are going to do, turn the use of money into future-oriented and profitable investments that our business is completely dependent on in the time ahead. We have done so through an offensive and comprehensive tax system, through a stronger commitment to transport and through completely necessary and proper measures to strengthen people's security in everyday life in terms of their own health, education and security for the absence of crime. There are many important and correct steps. I am very pleased that the budget as a whole has received a fairly good reception in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e565	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on changes to Prop. 1 S and Prop. [[2013-2014]] [[2013-2014]] 1 LS on the State budget in 2014 is out for treatment in a subsequent meeting. – No objection appears to have been raised, and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-11-08.ana.ud198e640	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
