ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e15	The representative of Audun Lysbakken will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e18	On behalf of Bård Vegar Solhjell and myself, I would like to make proposals on safe and secure care through long-term agreements with non-profit actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e23	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Treatment was continued for the following reasons:
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e49	The President proposes that in today's debate there should be a correction of the number of lines on the Prime Minister, proposing to extend this to 13 lines. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e52	The voters gave a historically large majority to the Left, Christian People's Party, Right and Advance Party on 9 September. Together, we have signed a historic cooperation agreement where we clearly say that we should manage the majority jointly to improve Norway. The right-wing Party government has presented an ambitious political platform: the Sundvolden Declaration. Last Friday, October 18th, we made an equally ambitious government statement here in Stortinget focusing on the values we're going to work on. Today, I want to draw attention to some particularly important tasks that we are going to tackle: to realise the knowledge society, to strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs, and not least to improve our social security network. We all agree that Norway is a good country to live in, and that is for the vast majority, but not for all. This recognition must be shared by every politician in Norway, that although most of us are doing well, not everyone has it as well. We have low unemployment, we have a well-developed welfare society for most, and we have many skilled and committed employees in the public and private sectors who each day contribute to the future of this country. And we have a voluntary sector with great competence, great activity and of which there is great respect, and which is helping to make Norway a society that builds us together as people. But it is very important that politicians always have the basis that success today is not a guarantee of success in the future. It is important that we have a recognition that the Norwegian welfare, which finances much of what we see today, is based on a combination of rich, non-renewable natural resources and competences linked to further processing them. That's why competence is so incredibly important. We still have a lot of natural resources in our society, but realising the knowledge society is really the recipe for ensuring success in the future. The government has taken on great knowledge ambitions. We're going to develop world-leading university environments. We must become one of Europe's most innovative countries. These are not ambitions that are fulfilled overnight; we have these ambitions because we have a generation perspective on what we are doing in this government. The steps we take during this four-year period will also deliver results from a generation perspective — a more robust welfare society. The work of realising the knowledge society starts at school. Several must acquire basic literacy and reading skills. Several have to qualify for both engineering and real science, but also for other higher education competences, and then we have to invest in the most important resource we have to make this promise, the teacher. This government has said that we should invest massively in the continuing training of teachers. A lot of teachers are very good, but a lot of teachers also say that they need more stuff to get even better and to achieve the goal of each student meeting a dream teacher in the classroom. That is why the government is going to put a massive effort on the continuing training of teachers, and in the long term we are going to make this a right and a duty. I am recording that Jens Stoltenberg concluded yesterday that the Workers' Party is firmly committed to its promise to double the efforts on the continuing training of teachers. But even though it was said in the election campaign, we haven't seen any sign of this in the last eight years, nor in the budget that the outgoing government put forward too soon. The level of 1,850 teachers and 400 principals continues. So if we're going to start a discussion about who's going away from the election vows, maybe the Workers' Party can start there. If anyone is in doubt, the Right Party government has far greater ambitions for continuing education, for teachers and for the knowledge effort. We're going to convert the teacher's education into a five-year master's degree. Together with the social partners, we will develop new career paths in the classroom with increased pay and status, and it is important to ensure the recruitment of the best pupils for the teaching profession in the future. The job continues to strengthen the focus on research, innovation and commercialisation of research results – yes, so that we build future new jobs. One of the main steps to be taken by the government to strengthen research is to increase the yield of the Eco-Technology Fund for climate and environmental purposes. It is stated in the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left that the precautionary principle is underpinned. We're going to leave the globe in better condition for our descendants than the one we ourselves received, and if we're going to get it, we're going to have to bet on climate and the environment. Therefore, the government will come back to Stortinget with a plan for how we can jointly strengthen the climate agreement. I see that the climate issue has triggered several proposals for voting later in this debate, and that the SV's newfound freedom makes them want a big message on this before the summer. We're going to work as hard and as good as we can, but the most important thing now is not to produce a big message, but to make sure that the results are further built. I remember that even though Stortinget decided that the first deal would be followed up with a concrete news of climate change in 2010, it did not come until 2012. So even if you're eager and you've got new freedom, you might want to think about having a thoroughness in this work. The second big task I want to talk about today is to strengthen competitiveness. The right-wing Party government will use the large values that have come to our society from the petroleum industry to build Norway for the future. We need to be able to use this unique opportunity to create lasting values for our society and for future generations. An important area of activity for this government will be strengthening the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs and creating more secure jobs. Having a job gives personal development, a social community and security to the families, yes, it actually gives more than just the money you get. For the country, safe jobs provide the opportunity to further develop our welfare society. It is important that the values are created before they can be shared. The security of good welfare systems does not come from oil wealth; the security of good welfare schemes comes from the sum of the labour force of each of us. This is why it is an important objective that as much work as possible is being done. It gives great cause for concern to see the strong two-part division we have in the Norwegian economy. Where the oil and gas industry and its supply industries generate high values through a high oil price, traditional industries are struggling with weaker demand from Europe and in periods of high prices. Norway can do little to create new growth in the European countries affected by the debt crisis, but the government can strengthen the competitiveness of the Norwegian companies to compete, both in the European market and internationally. I would like to point out some contributions that are particularly important. We will invest more in growth-enhancing tax incentives, infrastructure, knowledge and environmental technologies to strengthen the competitiveness of jobs in mainland Norway. Compared to the size of the Norwegian economy, investment in mainland industry is at a low level. It reinforces the need to trigger what makes you want to invest more, including: to reduce the extraordinary taxes on wealth. If the owners of Norwegian jobs can leave more money in the company, it can be invested in new machinery, new equipment and new jobs. Lower taxes on Norwegian jobs will therefore strengthen competitiveness. Lowering taxes is in line with our election promises. Of course, the number fixation comes in the individual budgets. It is also in line with what was our election promise. Tax has no priority over the other important investments in competitiveness, but it is a necessary part to strengthen competitiveness, together with infrastructure, knowledge and to ensure that we have a much better focus on research in the years to come. Another important contribution is, as I said, building the country with infrastructure. Norway is a long-distance country, and we rely on a well-developed road network. Yes, in fact, we cannot talk about rural policy in Norway without focusing on infrastructure and the road network. Oil revenues give us a unique opportunity to invest and invest in modern and efficient roads for the future. That's why the government will be investing more in transportation. Better roads also make it safer to travel in traffic. Better road and track also makes it faster and therefore also more reasonable to send goods into, out of and across the country. A strong collective effort is needed to keep the large cities growing and living, and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Better infrastructure will strengthen Norwegian competitiveness, and when competitiveness is strengthened, we also ensure well-being and will have the opportunity to further develop it. In order to improve Norway, the Right-Fremskritsparte government will increasingly base its policies on confidence in individuals, families, entrepreneurs and volunteering. We believe that Norway is getting better by using all the good forces. We're a small country, but we're a lot of people who can contribute if we use all the good cancers. I would like to stress again what we said in the government statement: ‘Many forces and large resources will go to play if we make policy a struggle between the public, voluntary and private sectors, where only one can win.’ Everyone should contribute. The government has as its priority the objective of strengthening the social security network. I've talked a lot about sealing the holes for vulnerable groups. It is equally important to ensure that health cows decline and the quality of health services provided. Therefore, we need to use free capacity at private and non-profit institutions, to bring down health cows and to introduce free treatment choices. We start with drugs and mental health protection. We do that in order to reduce the waiting time for a patient group, because waiting at the treatment site may mean that the motivation for getting well disappears. It's a bad effort from our society. It is now time to give priority to drugs and mental health in the healthcare system. Psychiatric health disorders are one of the most important causes of illness and absence at work. Therefore, we need to make it easier to combine work with the need for treatment in periods of minor or major mental illness. Different mental disorders require different follow-up. Some people need peace, rest and health care. For others, going sick can make things worse. This flexibility we have to work to get into our entire working and social life. Only then will we be able to take good action to improve mental health. The government will work to organise healthcare better. The work shall be carried out gradually and the employees shall be involved in the process. The last point I want to raise today is the government's cooperation with Stortinget. The Government shall manage the political majority jointly with the Christian People's Party and the Left. We're going to have close contact with our big groups. The government also wants constructive cooperation with the opposition. I am therefore very pleased that, during this debate, very many opposition politicians have declared that they should be constructive. It's important for the Norwegian community. Major reforms have been made on a broad basis. Then they become permanent and better. This is why the government is prepared to bring open questions and discussions to the Storing in order to find out the good processes and to get through the important, large and forward-looking reforms. Therefore, it is also important that the good ideas and suggestions from other parties should be seriously assessed and given good feedback. From time to time, constructive proposals will also be adopted, because we jointly have a responsibility to manage Norway in the future – whether in position or opposition. We look forward to a period when the Stortinget is strengthened as a political workshop, and we look forward to the changes of words that follow. Then we expect to do what you say: vote for what you are for and be careful to be in good dialogue that there will be not only political games, but that the work that the government and the Storing will do together over the next four years will actually be the best for the inhabitants of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e122	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e125	I'm aware that we've gone from the sixth largest party of the Storting to the fourth largest party of the Storing, but I'd like to go further up the list. Of course, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to begin by congratulating Erna Solberg as the country's new Prime Minister. We are also pleased with the cooperation agreement underpinning the government, which the Prime Minister stressed in his statement. «there must be government with the Storthinget», said Johan Sverdrup. [[...]] Unfortunately, he did not succeed in doing so himself, but we assume that this is also the government's position – that you should rule with the Stortinget. I want to face a personal challenge. The Prime Minister has a long political work behind him, so my question is, What is the Prime Minister's motivation and motivation? What will she achieve for the country, now that she gets this important job as the country's prime minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e136	It's an exciting question to be challenged with. I think a lot of that drive is in some of the things I initially talked about: I've been concerned with all my political life that the knowledge society and knowledge are the most important way you can lift the individual. The way the individual manages to lift himself is to provide good knowledge and competence. Therefore, raising the whole of Norway is a question of the sum of lifting each individual. That's why I'm dedicated to realising the knowledge society. I think education is our best social policy. I think education is our best knowledge policy. I think education is our best and environmental and industrial policy. Creating social mobility is closely linked, among other things. education. The other important thing is to make sure that those who fall outside are always given a new chance. It's about the commitment to drugs and mental health. If you start falling out of our very streamlined society, where you're really going one race from the first day of school and beyond, it's hard to come back again. Creating opportunities to come back, whether back into the education system or back into work — getting the help you need — is one of my strongest motivational factors.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e145	I think we can agree with a lot of what the Prime Minister has just done. That is why I have a very concrete call to the Prime Minister: She now spoke of those who fall outside. The Bondevik II government — where the Prime Minister was also an important participant — put the fight against bullying high on the agenda by engaging the Prime Minister himself. Researchers later concluded that the strong national focus had a significant impact on bullying in Norway. Since 2004, bullying has increased again. 5-7 pst. by school students today experience bullying. It equals 40,000-50,000 children. I would like to challenge the Prime Minister personally to put a strong national focus on the fight against bullying in school, in working life and on digital media. Will the Prime Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e154	The simple answer to that is yes. I believe that giving a safe childhood, giving a safe upbringing, in fact, is the most important prevention measure we have against problems in almost every field. In our commitment to mental health and to raising the educational community, it's important to remember that if a child sits with lumps in his stomach, fear of free minutes, fear of the school road or of what can happen, yes, the learning effect won't be very great, and what you experience there can give scars for the rest of your life. Therefore, it is incredibly important that we make an effort — to ensure at all that the rest of the policy works — on the basis that each child should have the best possible growth. It's about fighting bullying. It's about teaching our children decent behavior towards others. It is about teaching all children in Norway the understanding of empathy. It is the responsibility of parents. It's about helping the kids who are being bullied, and making sure that the school community knocks it down right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e159	The next representative is Jens Stoltenberg. Some may have wondered why not Stoltenberg was the first replicant. The background to that, I think, is due to technological developments since the last time Stoltenberg was in the hall. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e164	In the election campaign, today's government parties presented a wide range of very expensive and ambitious election vows. Many of them can't be found in the government platform they've created after the election. One example is that throughout the election campaign — and for a long time also before the elections — they promised to reduce the equity requirement for housing for young housing buyers. I understand that in those areas where the parties disagree, you might be able to negotiate election vows in government negotiations. But both parties agreed on this before the elections. Nevertheless, you have not followed it up. I actually think it is good for the country that they are more responsible now after the elections. It is about stability, security, in the housing market and throughout our banking system, and about not overseeing the kind of professional requirements. But I also agree with an overall housing industry that says that it is a mockery of all the young people who voted on these parties, that the few days after the election go away from such a concrete election vow. My question is, what has changed from you promised this a few days before the election, to the days after the election, since you go away from this election promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e173	It is not right to say that this is not mentioned in the platform. It's mentioned in the platform. What is mentioned in the platform is that we should ensure that the equity requirement is practised in a flexible way so that it is possible for young people to settle with housing. This means that we are going to be in dialogue with the Financial Supervisory Authority that they need to pay more attention to how the proper banking trade is to be carried out, that a 15 pst. capital requirement cannot be an absolute requirement. When people have the ability to serve their own loan, they should get loans even if they do not have equity at that level. That's a discussion we'll go into. Then it's like Jens Stoltenberg and I have an experience in common, namely that we both went out of the education system about the time we had the greatest unemployment and the biggest housing crack. We know it's important to make sure that people don't borrow more than they can handle. We have disagreed that it is done through an absolute 15 p.m. claim, it is the banking trade that is done in each bank that has to take responsibility for assessing what the customer is tolerating. We shall have a dialogue with the Financial Supervisory Authority on this. Then we're going to consider whether we can get to what we said in the election campaign, that an equity requirement will be lowered for very many groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e181	There is no doubt that what the government is now doing is going away from what you promised before the elections. Then you promised to lower the claim. What is on the platform is a flexible practice. It's already today's practice. Flexibility is already available today, and one can – for example. through additional guarantees – lower the requirement of 15 pst. One goes away from what was said so late as in a press release on 23 August, that the claim should be lowered. It's not followed up. The problem is that this is one of many examples of saying very clear things before the election and saying something else after the election. So a total housing industry agrees with our assessment of this. Another area is road. A great many concrete road projects were promised in addition to the record of our national transport plan. I accept once again that the requirement to remove all the bombs, which one party had, may not be something of – although I see that TV 2 has now made a bomb meter that measures all the tolls that will be required with the new government as well. The problem is that there is now confusion about the new road projects they promised, which they promised together, becoming something of. My question is: are you standing by the concrete road lifts you came with – in addition to the national transport plan – before the elections?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e190	We are in the process of building more roads than the former government provided in the national transport plan. It is not possible to read anything else out of the platform that we have provided. As far as concerns are concerned, it is because the Workers' Party is going to worry about these road projects. It is not that all road projects promised by the Labour Party before the 2005 elections were included in the Soria Moria Declaration, even though other parties agreed on them. There is no tradition that platforms in Norway are so detailed. That's the tradition of showing direction, and then you go through the budget every year. But I can promise Jens Stoltenberg that we're going to build more roads, and we're going to see again the road projects that we've talked about in the election campaign, in the priorities that this government is going to do. Each budget in the years ahead will contribute to more road construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e195	I'm not doubting that it's going to be any further. It is also included in the national transport plan presented by this government. But it doesn't keep building any more roads. The crucial thing is to follow up all the concrete road projects that were being run around the country, and it's still unclear whether you're actually going to follow up. Then there is a third promise where there is also uncertainty, but where I hope the government will follow up. It's promised in at least 12 billion. kr more to the hospitals. It is important that hospitals are given predictability. We promised 12 billion. kr more to the hospitals. The right hand side and the progress side said it had to be at least 12 billion. kr, because the automatic financing of commercial hospitals was also to be financed. And because there is uncertainty about that, I ask again if you can confirm that you are living by the promises of increased appropriations for the hospitals that you made before the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e202	We stand by our promises that we will bet on the public hospitals. We will return to how much we increase the budget every year. It would have been fun if we had a better starting point with the budget that is at stake now. That's how the Workers' Party promised 12 billion. kr more. If we divide it into four years, that means it should be three billion. kr in the current budget. There it is, 2.4 billion. kr, so the Working Party is 600 million. kr in return for their own election vows, and we understand that we have to cover up for what the Workers' Party itself was unable to prioritise for the hospitals. We have ambitions to do that with the assumptions that lie in any platform, but it depends on the economic development in the future. The harvest budget seems to have a lot of room, but not three billion. kr to growth in health businesses, which would be the logical distribution of the bet when you say 12 billion. DKK in four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e207	We've been following up on what we said in our budget. That's so that if we add to $2.6 billion. Every year, we get over 12 billion. Total kr. This is the case, both for national transport plans and other escalation plans, that you do not necessarily take everything for one year. You step up and you have an increase of 2.6 billion. kr per year. It'll bring us over 12 billion. kr in total during that period. As you can see, there are no problems with the budget we have presented. The uncertainty is whether the new government will follow it up. There is also another health issue that concerns me, and that is the issue of regional health businesses. Government acquisition of hospitals has provided much better organisation of our healthcare system. It has provided treatment for far more patients and a better worksharing between hospitals. The new government wants to abolish the system of regions, they want a centralisation of the decisions and that we no longer want a regional anchoring of important decisions in the Norwegian health system. I think that is unfortunate, but it is extra unfortunate that the most important decision-making body in the Norwegian health service is now due to resign for four years. It is an expression of a lack of implementation. It will create an uncertainty throughout the health system that the health system does not need. Is it the case that four years have been planned to set up a new system for decisions in the Norwegian health system?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e216	I think if you multiply 2.6 by 4, you get no more than 12, but Jens Stoltenberg can count on that afterwards. We have been clear on how to manage health businesses and policies in the years to come. It is not that there are several centralised decisions. Our starting point is to decentralize, make sure that individual hospitals make more decisions than at regional level. The important grip to get it done has been talking about for eight years at Stortinget – I'm a little surprised that the Workers' Party has not discovered it. It is that we need to have a national health plan with a completely different piece of governance, on which this room should be included. It is possible that it is centralisation to involve Stortinget more in health policy. I think it's a democratization to do that. The national health plan shall be in place here. When it is in place, we have the governance instrument that will ensure that regional health businesses can gradually be wound up. We hope we can do it in this period. Yesterday the Minister for Health held a meeting with a clear and clear signal: everyone shall continue as before, for the most important thing now is to put in place the national health plan, which shall be the governance instrument to be used by the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e223	The problem is that it is said to replace a system that makes ongoing decisions around Health-Norway with a national health plan. I disagree with that thinking, because I believe it is important that we anchor the decisions in the north, in the west and not all decisions in Oslo. The second is: I mean, if you're going to do that first, you shouldn't have health companies on notice for four years. It creates a decision space. It creates unforeseeable predictability, and it creates a lack of implementation that Norwegian hospitals should be uncertain about what should be the management system for such a long time. To abolish these businesses first, abolish the regions, it should be done quickly, instead of having four years of uncertainty about something as important as how to make decisions in the Norwegian health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e230	I allow myself to disagree. It's not going to be a lack of decisions. Both the Ministry of Health and the regional health establishments will follow the guidelines given by the Ministry of Health. We think we're actually able to manage the public sector. It is possible that the outgoing government did not feel that it could control the public sector, and that it therefore became a vacuum if it did not have an extended arm that was given instructions. We have an ambition to have tight governance of regional health companies' decisions. Then the whole goal is to decentralise even more, so that hospitals can develop in cooperation locally and not through a regional distribution of tasks – according to the plan that the Stortinge will adopt in the future, which will tell us about our ambitions in this area, which will provide criteria for quality and how to develop the health sector. I believe that there has been a vacuum in democracy with the model that has been. We need to reintroduce more transparency, more democracy and more local decisions for the development of the health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e235	I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate Erna Solberg and my dear close to being the country's new Prime Minister. There will be exciting meetings both in the Storting and otherwise in the public vocabulary. As I pointed out yesterday, security and defence policy has a broad consensus area in Stortinget. An important pillar of changing governments has been that international operations should have their place in the UN mandate. State Council Helgesen stressed in yesterday's meeting that it is a conscious choice from the new government that, in its platform, it refers only to international law. The question is: is the Prime Minister agreed with the Prime Minister Helgesen that it may be relevant for Norway to participate in international operations without a UN mandate? In what situations does the Prime Minister see that this may be the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e242	First of all, I want to thank you for your congratulations. It's nice. There will be many opportunities for cooperation in the years to come in Stortinget. I heard probably the line change between the councillor Helgesen and Liv Signe Navarsete a little different than the one that was now given. What he said was that this government is based on international law, that the UN is the most important instrument of international law. It's not that it's always just the UN. He did not say that it was relevant for Norway to pursue a different policy or to engage in other conflicts. He noted the importance of international law that the interpretation of international law is not given exclusively to the UN, but what the UN does, and what the Security Council may decide, is the natural interpretation of international law. But in some cases it will, as he does, among other things. the above, be asked for help, and then it will be legitimate to participate in international law. This is primarily an academic discussion. We believe that when you go into conflict areas or other areas, Security Council decisions are the best we can get from those who administer international law today. This is going to be the main line. But we can never say that there will never be a situation like the situation in Kosovo, as a large majority in the United Kingdom agreed that Norway participated.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e249	I thank the Prime Minister for the answer. Unfortunately, the answer does not indicate how the government intends to handle this. What Helgesen said yesterday was that the international court can be and will often be a United Nations mandate, but that also e.g. invitations from third countries will be covered by international law. It opens up a different direction and blurs out what our changing governments have to say to clear lines on this issue. That's why I want to ask the Prime Minister if it's the way Norway has to put soldiers at the disposal, for example. to the EU’s forces, without having a UN mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e257	I actually think it's wise for a country like Norway not to decide 100 pst. for what you do in thoughtful cases in the future. We have said that we must build on international law. It is a clear and clear mandate. The UN is the most important instrument for interpreting it. The main emphasis of what we think will always be that it is the mandate of the Security Council that will be important. Then there may be situations where it would be appropriate to participate without the Security Council having given a clear mandate, or there may be a discussion of how clearly to interpret international law. I believe that in the future we in Norway should have such an opening, just as when we agreed in this big room that we should participate in Kosovo to ensure that it was not ethnic cleansing, despite the fact that the Security Council had not given a clear resolution on it. I believe that the most important thing is to follow the UN, but that we do not always have to lock ourselves up. International law gives other possibilities. They can come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e262	I would also like to welcome Mrs Solberg to the House of Commons as Prime Minister. We in the Left have great expectations of the job she's going to do. We want her to be happy with that. Norway is a country where many things are going well, as we have said many times in this debate. There are many indicators that indicate that we are doing quite well in a European and global perspective. But we can also see some dark clouds in the horizon. One thing is the enormous oil dependence that Norwegian economy has – depending on one industry, an industry that we know will not last forever, namely the oil and gas industry. Other things are that we do not invest in and invest enough in what are future industries – the jobs we may not yet know can be found. The Prime Minister promised this something in his speech. Does the Prime Minister agree with me that this is one of the major challenges facing the Norwegian economy right now?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e269	Yes, the biggest challenge for long-term development in Norway is to make sure that we have more legs to stand on. We believe that the two-part division of the Norwegian economy is a challenge, especially because one part is so significantly weakened in today's situation. This does not mean that we should weaken the second part, the oil and gas industries, but that means that we need a conscious strategy and policy on how to raise new areas – areas where we are strong, such as the environment. fisheries and maritime industries, but also areas in which we are not so strong, but should become strong, which are technological areas. We should therefore work consciously in research, innovation and framework conditions for Norwegian business, so that we are a country where it is interesting to invest and develop new jobs. Then we have to raise the competence of society as a whole. The environmental aspect is one of the important things. Norway has a great deal of expertise in some technologies that enable us to be world leaders in technology development in the environment as well. That is why we are so concerned that we are going to implement what the four cooperating parties have said about the Technology Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e274	I have two lines -- this is a little unfamiliar, but very funny. The government that went off, in its enthronement, had only an ambition to follow up the climate agreement that was already in the Storting. Nor was it announced that a new climate announcement was requested for Stortinget. But in the agreement that the current government has made with the Christian People's Party and the Left, there are ambitions to strengthen climate reconciliation. Can the Prime Minister say something about progress in the new message, as the outgoing parties clearly have ambitions to do something that they did not have ambitions to do in a few months' time?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e281	It's a little early to make loop notifications for processes. The government has had one ordinary government conference so far and must have some time to change. But we think it's important that we strengthen some of the measures quickly, that is, that we work with the measures, with the effects. Storing messages are important in terms of ambition and political commitment to matters, but the most important thing is that we are actually doing something, and we have ambitions to start doing something quickly. Then we have said that we will come back to Stortinget with one thing. I'm not sure if we can promise to do that during this ageing period. I think it's going to be too much of a status report and too little a clear and clear line in the future, so we're going to need a little bit more time. But we will keep reporting in these areas to the Storting. Then there are some difficult and big issues, such as the CCS questions, where the big project was completed right after the election. That means we have to have a completely different and new strategy on it, in turn, in line with what several opposition parties have said in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e290	I join the congratulations. In the election campaign there was one point in the Progress Party program that got some attention, and as many of us thought was pretty extreme. That is the point where it says that ‘the production of welfare services differs little from other services’. It is a position that is quite fundamentally different from the one on which the Norwegian model is based, namely the recognition that there are some tasks and services that need to be solved differently from others – in short, there is a fundamental difference between caring for our children in kindergarten or caring for our sick, and cutting hair or delivering pizza. To our great surprise, we find the same wording in the government platform. The Government considers initially that the production of welfare services differs little from other services. Does the Prime Minister really think this is the case, or was this a rock-and-lime accident working on the platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e297	That sentence emphasizes what I think is important. What is important in the case of public services is that they are of high quality, that they are good, that they are publicly funded and that everyone has access to the services. It's the responsibility of the public. So I believe that different people in different forms of organisation can actually deliver public services in many areas, and I see that the innovation power is growing by the fact that there are more who provide services. I believe that public -- not least where we have large, established forms of organisation within the public -- often enjoy being challenged by others who can think differently and flexibly about how they solve it. Therefore, I am concerned that there will be some offers – e.g. in mental health, e.g. for girls or boys with eating problems — where one sees that others have thought other ways of working with this, which have good results. That's why we need a diversity. That's why I want to go further and say that it's not about the same thing, I want to say that it's actually a goal in itself that it's a dynamic, and that there's someone who delivers because they can think new and different. But access and funding are important to ensure that everyone gets, and that it is good quality. We'll take care of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e302	Of course, the Green Party and I will join in the chorus of congratulations and look forward to working with the government from Stortinget. The Prime Minister stressed the very timely competitiveness challenge for the non-oil-powered part of Norwegian industry. From our point of view, this is all the more important as it is a key obstacle to the development of a sustainable and renewable business, which is what Norway needs to do. At the same time, both the right and the left to be very unwilling to address the basic problem, namely the fact that we have an oil-powered business on which it is mainly invested and which is driving up these costs. The state budget of the red-green drive them further up and weakens Norwegian competitiveness. Is the Prime Minister willing to comment on the basic fact that a main effort on oil in Norway continues to weaken the potential for alternative industrial development in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e309	No, I disagree. I think it must be possible to get two things: it is to maintain a welfare society, to maintain the good society we have today, which is largely linked to the oil-based business life and the income we get from it, while building a stronger other business life. Why do I mean that? Well, because the cost of the conversion that is often prescribed here is too large. It means fewer jobs over a period of time. It means more people who have problems paying their mortgages. That is why I want a gradual shift from so much of our revenue coming from the oil business to another business that can also bear our cost level. The aim must be that the new business also carries our cost level, because if not it means a welfare reduction. That means that we have less room to help the weakest groups of public budgets, and that means that each Nordic will have a poorer welfare base. That is why we have to try to get a task that I know is great and challenging: get a new and stable and good business with a high capacity to bear costs, and at the same time have an oil business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e314	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e317	The election gave us a civil majority and with it a bourgeois government. But if there's something that's obvious in this throne debate, it's that vitality, that energy, the desire to shine out of a new government plurality, is missing. It is so obvious that the Left's parliamentary leader pointed out that it was the opposition leader who had the best mood. I think one of the reasons for this is that the most important project for the new Prime Minister was shipwrecked already in the Nydalen. The goal of forming a four-party government, a majority party government, was simply not possible. The result was a Right Party Minority Government. We have to respect that. We also said in the election campaign that the distance between the center parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and the Progress Party was so big that it was hard to imagine how to sit in government together. But there was another clarification in Nydalen, and it was that in the election between forming a minority government with the Advance Party or a minority government with the Christian People's Party and the Left, Erna Solberg chose the Advance Party. I don't think it would have been difficult to get a majority in the Christian People's Party and the Left's big groups for a Right-Christian People's Party-Left government, but that was never what they were confronted with, because the Right had chosen the Advance Party. That means that we've now got the most right-wing government in a very long time, and a government that is far from the center of gravity that exists in this room. Of course, the government must be measured by what they do. One week after a government change is a little early to fix the status. However, they shall be measured against something; they shall be measured against the promises they made before the election and shall be measured against the situation they took over. It was said yesterday, and it can be repeated today: never has any government taken over Norway in a better economic condition. Never before have more people been in employment in Norway, and never before has GDP been so high in Norway. We have a record business life, and most of the 350 000 more jobs have come outside the oil and gas sector. Norwegian business and Norwegian economy are bottom-solid. Therefore, there are no outside reasons why the Right Party and the Advance Party might be running away from their election vows. On the contrary, the promises have been based on the results that we have created. Norwegian school is in strong progress, we have better results, more resources, more teachers. Now we're going to have a change of pace in the bet. Training of teachers shall be doubled. NTP, where we were going to spend 150 billion. kr more over a 10-year period, shall be further strengthened. The share of tolls in new projects shall be reduced. The health area shall receive at least 12 billion during the period. kr more. After listening to the Prime Minister's explanation that this can be difficult – namely that we have not given help in the state budget we submitted for 2014 – let us clarify one thing: not one penny of the state budget for 2014 has been used, it starts to be used on 1 January. The new government is free to redeploy about everything in that budget if they want it – and has a majority for it. So do not use as an excuse that we have submitted a budget – you are free to move this money as you wish. In the care sector, we received 10 more employees each day in the previous eight-year period. Now the bet has to be increased. 250,000 new jobs in private businesses – we need to increase our growth and competitiveness. In addition, we're going to have 25 to 100 billion. in tax cuts, and the rules of action shall remain in force. We said at the election that this was not related, that this was not possible to combine. Now Prime Minister Solberg – The Right Party and the Advance Party – has the opportunity to prove that it was them and not us who were right. But now we don't get any answers. We ask if the government stands by the promise to lower the equity requirement – we do not get an answer. We're asking if it's up to the NTP promises – we're not getting any answers. We ask if it stands by the promise in the area of health – we don't get any answers. The main choices are the basic principles of the Norwegian model. The Prime Minister spoke about trust in Norwegian society. Studies show that we have record high international trust. Why do we have that? It's because we've organized our society together, because there's little difference between people, because we go into one common, good, public school, because we fund the welfare systems together. If the new government shakes by these basic principles, it also shakes the confidence and solidarity of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e335	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e338	The representative guessed about mood – I'm in a great mood. But unfortunately, the Norwegian school reproduces social differences too much, and the drop-out in secondary education is too high, despite eight years of promises from the red-green government. The right-wing Party government will realise the knowledge society. The work begins by raising the knowledge of the school. In its last draft state budget, the Red-Green Government did not propose to increase at all the appropriations for the further training of teachers. A good school is over time the most important tool we have to renew Norway and create social mobility. That gives all the students a chance. Is the representative agree that the priority given by the red-green government to voluntary homework in 1–4? Class and school fruit – to mention something – have not been the right measures to lift all school students and reduce the drop-out rate, which is now up to 30pst. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e347	I believe that teaching aid and fruit are not the most important measures to increase the level of knowledge in Norwegian school — but it contributes. The most important thing is early work, more teachers, more resources for school, more hours, more training of teachers — all that makes us better off in international studies. What we are now seeing is that the level of knowledge in Norway is increasing in these surveys. The level of knowledge in Sweden, which has chosen a different route, is falling sharply in these surveys. The differences are increasing. Therefore, in the view of the Labour Party, we should continue to spend money on strengthening a good, common, public school – not open to privatisation, nor open to ranking and competition for primary school places, but instead call for the good, common, public school, which is now in strong progress.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e354	First, I would like to welcome you back to Stortinget and congratulate him on the important role of head of the Church, Education and Research Committee. I registered in the election campaign that many in the Workers' Party expressed the fear that a Right Party government would lead to massive closure of public schools, and that private schools would replace them. I can reassure the representative that this will not happen. We view private schools as an important complement to public school, while giving parents and students freedom of choice. The representative’s government dropped a school every eight days since it was elected in 2005, a total of 355 schools. At the same time, there have never been as many private schools as during the representative's eight-year term of government. The question to the representative Giske is whether he is satisfied with the consequences of his own school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e363	I think it was incredibly important that we turned the decline that we experienced in Norwegian school in the first half of the 2000s to a progress, that we have increased results in real science equivalent to a full year's coal level, that there are fewer who read and write poorly, and that Norwegian eleven-year-olds – together with Finns – to be absolutely accurate – now are raining best in the Nordic region. It is true that we have had a few more private schools, and that some small schools — mainly — have been closed down in Norway. But we have a broad private school settlement in Stortinget, where the Christian People's Party is with the red-green. I think many people also in the left really have great sympathy for this model, where there is room for some alternative schools, but where the main emphasis is on the public. What we're getting now is a law change where there's a lot more private schools to open up, publication of school results and competition for places. It will give a completely different school system, and it deeply worries me.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e372	The 2008 and 2012 Climate Change Comparisons in the United Kingdom need to be followed up and further developed with even stronger national measures and instruments in the coming years, if we are to achieve the objectives. The legacy of the red-green government in climate policy is not very flattering. The Cooperation Parties Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party have committed themselves in their agreement to intensify climate reconciliation and pursue offensive climate policies. How will the Workers' Party be a constructive supporter of the cooperation parties in their efforts to strengthen climate reconciliation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e379	Ever since Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland put the environment and climate on the agenda in Norway, the Labour Party has been a strong supporter of a good climate policy, both internationally and at home. We've been on two climate agreements in Stortinget, we're happy to join a third. Therefore, it makes sense for the new government to present a case to Stortinget. We heard the Prime Minister say that the most important thing is not a notification or a new climate settlement, the most important is the measures. Well, it is important that there is broad support for this policy and that a case be brought before the Stortinget about this. We're looking forward to that, and then we're going to be there. We must be a driving force – as we have been – in the transport sector, in industry, industry and in energy policy, because climate policy must be implemented in these heavy areas. Then we have to work intensively internationally, get the big players in the world into a binding climate agreement, so that we really take care of what is the goal: to reduce global climate emissions – not just in Norway, but overall, that is. global.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e386	Norway is a high-cost country. It is fundamentally positive for the prosperity, the freedom of action and our standard of living. As long as we have a business and an export industry that wins in competition every day because they have the power to be in a world class as to knowledge, technology and innovation, this is going very well. Nevertheless, as Minister of Industry, Giske chose to explain that Norway is losing ground on international statistics on innovation and entrepreneurial activity. Will the Gist and Labour Party in opposition show greater audacity to open and alarming facts and contribute to strengthening and establishing new incentive schemes for entrepreneurs, innovators and technology development in existing enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e393	We want to stand in opposition to the policy we had in government, to facilitate industrial development and employment growth. From taking over an economy that was roughly zero in terms of private business in 2005, where there had been a couple-and-twenty-thousand more jobs over four years, we have thus doubled it for private business – 250,000 over the eight years we managed. We have contributed to significant simplification in the private sector – no government has done more – by over 5 billion. We're stuck on the goal of 10 billion dollars. kr by 2016, and 5 more when you extend that period by two years. I think we have to measure it the same way. I notice that the Prime Minister requires us to meet election commitments in the first state budget after the election, while her own election promises are to be measured from a generation perspective. We're going to work intensively for the goals we had in government and, along with the Left, in this important area of innovation, research and industrial development.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e400	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e403	When I listen to the representative Giske, I realize that the meaning of the term ‘covered table’ has changed its content from what I experienced when we round 2005. I think I can also remind the representative Giske that although he thinks it's a little strange that you've got a different government, people in the election have actually thought so, and I remember that the election is over the Stortinget. There has not been anything wrong – from my point of view – with either the previous government or the representative Giske in government, but we believe that we can do things better with new ideas and other solutions, and people have also supported us in that. I thought I should pay some attention to what is the basis for all welfare services, and where most of the most people are delivered to the population, namely the municipalities. De Tocqueville put up with the challenge of local democracy 170 years ago. He said, ‘Communes are the most natural of all forms of society. Wherever people live together, a municipality is formed by itself.’ And on the other hand, ‘The municipal institutions are not alone able to fight an active and strong government.’ In recent years, the State has transferred more and more tasks to the municipalities, and this is often accompanied by strong rights legislation. In the last eight years, municipalities have experienced an increasing imbalance between the tasks, expectations and the economic space they have actually received. This reduces the power of local elected representatives and makes them administrators of a government policy. At the same time, government authorities have developed a comprehensive right to object and control municipal planning. As a result, in many cases administrative bodies are overseeing elected representatives, which in itself is a democratic problem. We're going to change this. The municipalities provide the most important welfare services we need in everyday life, such as kindergarten, school, health care and much more. So the municipalities are the bearer of the Norwegian welfare state, and we want to simplify and improve in government. Today there is too much state overgovernment of the municipalities, and decisions are taken further away from the inhabitants than is necessary. Some municipalities experience both challenges related to ensuring good quality of welfare services, attracting and ensuring good employee skills, and unforeseeable financial framework conditions. In my experience, from my small municipality with 5,000 inhabitants, organisations, intercommunal companies and other companies have increased from the few to the present to close to 40. In the whole area of – Indre Østfold, 50,000 inhabitants today – there are eight municipalities working together on the crisis centre, the relief home for mental retardation, water and sewerage, waste management, accounting services, which are the last, and technical services. Did the local government lose control of this? My claim is yes. The democratic deficit is obvious. When today's government wants to bring about a community reform, it is because we want not only more freedom, but also more responsibility for the municipalities. That's where people live, that's where the policy meets the citizens, and that's where the policy is up to the exam in front of the individual. That's where the individual experiences the community being there when needed. We want a living local democracy in which residents, municipalities, non-governmental organisations and local business play a team. We need to have confidence in the individual, that the individual makes reasonable choices in the main, so that one does not have to regulate as much as is the situation today. We want confidence in elected representatives and that they want the best for their community, so that they can gain greater power and responsibility. Trust in the population is an independent value in our work in government. Our reform must be based on a task review that assesses the tasks that local authorities can and should have. Larger and more robust municipalities can have and get bigger tasks and take more responsibility than today's municipalities, and it is a goal that decisions are moved closer to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e429	For the first time in the party's history, the party has entered the government, and we are proud of the government platform that underpins the policy of the Right-Fremskrit Party government in the coming years. We are also pleased with the agreement – the solid, good and historic cooperation agreement – we have made with the Left and Christian People's Party. I would therefore like to take the opportunity to express my thanks and honour the Left, the Christian People's Party and our government partner Right for constructive and good cooperation in the initial phase and for the cooperation we will have in the years to come, a cooperation that has resulted in all of our parties having had a significant impact on our core business in important political areas. This cooperation and the political platform underpinning the historical participation of the Progress Party will lead our country in a new direction and change our society for the better in a number of areas. One of the important and absolutely necessary changes that will be marked is in the field of asylum, immigration and integration. This has been and is one of the core issues of the Progress Party and for which we have had a significant impact in both the cooperation agreement and the government platform. Much of the migration to Norway over the last decade has brought with it is positive, exciting and enriching for Norway as a nation. People who have migrated to Norway contribute constructively at all levels of society with their skills, workforce and experience. Immigration has also contributed to a greater diversity in society with new impulses that can contribute to innovation, innovation and creativity that are absolutely necessary in a globalised world. But there are also major and demanding challenges related to the large immigration that has taken place. I am pleased that the majority of people have taken these challenges seriously and found good solutions in the cooperation agreement. The main objective of the Progress Party in this field is also to facilitate the individual to have both the right and the ability to succeed based on self-participation and effort, regardless of where you come from, what you believe in, gender, age, sexual orientation and all the other factors. Unfortunately, the policy pursued in this area over the last eight years has not helped to achieve this goal fully. The attention and efforts in this field — especially to the Socialist Left — have focused on the number of those who do not have protection needs not to be in Norway and who, according to all laws, conventions and agreements, will have to leave Norway, however. Almost all publicly available statistics and reports show that the challenges are major and in some areas critical. Especially non-Western immigrants come out badly. It's e.g. So that we non-Western immigrant boys have far higher drop-out percentages in school than other students. The same group also has the worst impact on unemployment statistics, on child protection statistics, on social assistance statistics, on violence statistics, on general crime statistics, and on all living conditions and poverty studies. Six out of ten children living in poverty in Norway today have a migrant background. The problem of poverty is thus closely linked to the challenges facing immigration. It is therefore completely incomprehensible to us in the Progress Party that the parties in the outgoing red-green government are so pleased with these results that they want to continue the misguided policy which has contributed to this development. It's not humane, caring, naughty, or a good human vision to accept people who have great challenges and difficulties and to give them and the society they come to, even more. It is therefore high time to see the relationship between the number of people you accept and the number you really have the opportunity to help and integrate. Quality is more important than quantity when it comes to human treatment. This is evident in the platform, where there are a number of measures and concrete policies that will improve asylum and integration policy. I am pleased that the country has received a government and a great majority who think completely about this field, and who take people who are on the run and have a need for protection, in the greatest seriousness, and who want to give them the opportunity to succeed and become a resource for the country they come to, over a burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e448	Thank you for the nice greeting from the representative Keshvari, and good luck also to him in an important job for his party here in Stortinget! We have a great deal in common to manage in this country. The very foundation is perhaps the most important thing. The cooperation agreement concluded by the Left, Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right states: ‘The anchoring of the values of the Parties lies in the principles of the rule of law and democracy, and the Christian and humanist cultural heritage.’ We are pleased that such a foundation is so firmly founded in this agreement. We have a lot to manage otherwise as well. We're going to manage a good economy, which, of course, is under pressure given the framework conditions of our business as a result of the situation in many other spirits. We have large natural resources to manage. We have a social profile, on which there has been a cross-political agreement, to be managed. And we also have a common responsibility beyond the borders of the country, which we must also manage further. For me, a welfare society is much more than a welfare state. I also perceive that the government's platform says something about this, that the welfare community is something far more than the state itself. It's the basic units, it's the family, the civil society, it's the smaller units. And then, of course, we have the public thing as well. It is this coexistence that I hope a new government can give a whole new course in relation to the deceased. I think it is a demonstration of impotence when the SV parliamentary leader today promotes a private proposal to make long-term agreements for drug institutions. One week after you've left the government, it's out of the question to promote such a proposal. It's proving your own powerlessness in government when you make such a proposal. We have expectations, in common with the three other parties, of getting this on a better track than it has been. We had a value debate on the first day of this two-day debate. It went on reservation access for permanent residents – a reservation access that has been there since the abortion law came and that has worked under the prime ministers Harlem Brundtland, Nordli before that, Jagland, Stoltenberg I and Stoltenberg II, at least for seven years. Then you have to ask yourself if the rhetoric that was run in this hall yesterday is consistent with reality. Of course it's not. This is not a fight about the abortion law, as Helga Pedersen suggests in his blog post, this is to protect both patients' rights and doctors' conscience. I am convinced that the Minister of Health will make sure that this comes in a very good way. We also have great expectations about hospital policy – I see the Minister for Health sitting in the Chamber. It was alarming to hear the outgoing Prime Minister talk about health policy. That the Bondevik I government took over a reform that was completely unfinished, he didn't say a word about it. The economy was completely out of stock. And just to remind you of that – the supervisory authorities said in 2011 that about throughout 2011, Aarhus was out of control by the authorities that were supposed to be in charge. Nevertheless, you have the boldness to talk about the current government and what it's going to do. Here's a lot to clean up in your own house. We are ready for good cooperation with the new government. We do so with boldness on the basis of the cooperation agreement that underlies, and we look forward to further constructive cooperation with both the Right, the Advance Party and the Left – and also other parties in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e470	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e473	We have just heard the representative of the Seven in his contribution point more at the government's value base, which is also part of the cooperation agreement, of which the Christian People's Party is part. Nevertheless, I would like to ask the representative if he can understand that it has aroused reactions that the Christian People's Party, as a value-conservative party, is now part of the government base of a government with the Advance Party, which has a completely different policy in areas such as the United States and Japan. aid, international solidarity, refugee policy, etc. The Christian People's Party, like the Workers' Party, is committed to international solidarity and assistance. We reached the goal of 1 pst in government. of GNI for assistance. Will the Christian People's Party ensure that that goal remains in future budgetary negotiations with a government that has such a value base?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e480	Just as Irene Johansen would probably want, we want us to have 50 pst. by the votes cast. Then we could run just as we would, based on the politics and program of our own party. But now we're not quite there, to say it carefully. We depend on cooperation with other parties to get a majority for important matters for us, just like the Workers' Party, it is separate. I would like to commend the outgoing government for its efforts in terms of assistance. I would also like to commend the incoming government, which has already included one of our important proposals on the development of the poorest countries, namely that part of the pension fund should be used for just investing in poor countries. Then we get back to the budget debate and see exactly what the percentage is. The representative Johansen can be sure we're going to fight hard for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e489	I look at all politics as a value struggle. One of the biggest value struggles under the Bondevik II government was the discussion of the use of military power in Iraq. Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik was exemplaryly ready, dared to oppose all rounds, while Foreign Minister Jan Petersen wanted to support the United States at any price. Fortunately, Bondevik and Lars Sponheim were able to stand together, they were able to stand by the Norwegian position, until the UN Security Council agreed not to give a statement of support, to give a mandate to the Iraqi invasion. Is the Christian People's Party and the representative of the Syversen calm now when it is the Progress Party and the Right who are to shape foreign policy, when we saw how the Progress Party and the Right operated during the Iraq War, where the Advance Party on every occasion criticized the then Prime Minister Bondevik for being cowardly and evasive?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e496	I think history shows that the government of Bondevik decided in 2001–2005 when it came to the basis of international law for when you intervened and not, stands out very well. However, I would not agree with the description that the Minister of Foreign Affairs would go in with other countries, regardless of price. It is really the responsibility of the representative, Mr Vedum, to do so. I am pleased with the clear marking that the Prime Minister has made here today, namely that the starting point for this government is a mandate of international law, as developed by the Security Council's decision. That's our starting point, as it's been before. That's still going to be the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e503	During yesterday's debate there was a considerable uncertainty about the Christian People's Party's environmental policy. On my question about what it was that left supported the introduction of a Christian-dominated subject in the school, the answer from the representative Skei Grande was that this was for the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja. As we all know in this room, this is a question where it shouldn't be on the Christian People's Party. The Lofoten, the Vestral and the Senja are a matter which has been as much the fronts of the Christian People's Party as of the Left. Therefore, my question is, Is it right as Skei Grande claims, that the Christian People's Party was willing to sacrifice the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja to introduce a Christian-dominated subject into the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e512	I can fully establish that both the Christian People's Party and the Left had the same attitude with regard to the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja. Any hint of anything else falls on its own unfairness.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e517	There are some rules in the Stortinget that are not written, but that are quite empty, and that are fixed. These include: that the head of the control committee is from the opposition for entirely natural reasons and that the head of the financial committee is from position for equally natural reasons. Then several representatives from the Christian People's Party have stated that the Christian People's Party is in opposition. Therefore, my simple question is, Is now the head of the financial committee from the position or from the opposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e524	We're a center party, so I've indirectly answered the question. We are a constructive opposition party, but we also have a cooperation agreement that underlies the work we are going to do in Stortinget, and I am sure that the representative Andersen is well aware that one of the main areas for which we are going to cooperate is the budget. We're going to start with that not for very long, and I'm sure there'll be good cooperation between the Right Party, the Christian Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party on the budget as well. We are not part of the government's parliamentary basis as such, but we are a constructive opposition party with a solid cooperation agreement at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e530	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e533	The government will strengthen local democracy, it's called in the government platform of the Right and the Advance Party, and it adds: "This means that most people get more influence over their own everyday lives and their own local environment." This section of the government platform expresses values we share in the Center Party, but we obviously don't put the same thing in them. Population involvement shall not apply in matters of municipal structure. It's clear. In most cases promoted by the government’s political platform, it will be possible to stop bad proposals – and many of them – by saying no to the majority here at Stortingen. With regard to the community reform, I am more concerned because it is also enshrined in the cooperation agreement between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The government will invite the parties in Stortinget to discuss the process of municipal reform, it is called. Unfortunately, there is nothing to say that it will invite the municipalities and the residents there in the same process. Let it be clear: the central party does not become a party to a local reform that is not anchored by those affected. The inhabitants of the municipalities concerned by the association shall be consulted and shall have the last word in the case. The centre party is in line with the principle of volunteering. So it's not like the Center Party is against merging municipalities. In most municipal mergers that have occurred in the last decade, the Senter Party has been the driving force locally. Equal opportunities in education, health, care and social services are essential for the experience of having a good or poor distribution policy in the country. Where you live should not be decisive for the quality of services. Therefore, we have an income system for municipalities that ensures cohesion and equivalent services to all. People in my municipality, Holtålen, don't earn as much as those who live in Bærum. Tax revenue is reduced accordingly. The income system allows our kids and kids in Bærum to have equal opportunities for education. It is an important quality of the Norwegian welfare society that we must not rock. The Government Platform provides for greater differences in welfare provision. Municipalities with a high level of income among the population and with enterprises that make good money will be allowed to develop higher levels of welfare services than other municipalities. Equivalence shall be replaced by greater differences. The government platform does not say anything about the losers of the municipal economic reform, but everyone who can calculate sees what the result is. In a zero-sum game where you're going to get more, some people have to lose the same amount. For my county, the South Trøndelag, it means a total loss for the municipalities of 135 million. kr. That's 135 million. kr less to produce welfare services for. The government will implement this gradually and in a predictable way, it says. In other words, the teacher's density should not be reduced in 2014 but over the year. It's skinny comfort, I mean now. We've got a government that will pursue policies for increasing differences between people depending on where they live and on income levels. There is a breach of the welfare policy we have been pursuing in this country for a long time. The majority of the majority of the population have the opportunity to stop the welfare experiment of the Right and the Advance Party. I hope we stand together on that. Of course, the Christian People's Party and the Left have a special responsibility, since these parties have established the government. From the centre party we are prepared to cooperate with both central and other parties to stop the proposals for increasing differences between people. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will be called the Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation. The government has told us which tasks are to be assigned to the ministry. The regional policy tasks that are an important part of the ministry’s responsibilities today are little reported. «The government wants to build the country», under the heading «Important areas of activity», but does it apply throughout the country? The big picture is addressed in our big message on regional and regional policy. A total increase joined the government's emphasis on the goal of maintaining the main features of the housing pattern here in the country. I hope that everyone still shares that ambition. The County Council has an important place in regional policy and manages instruments through cooperation with Innovation Norway. It seems that our new government does not intend to follow up on this. The political platform states that the government will further develop Innovation Norway as an organisation, but that the nationwide priority will be given to it. The platform also states that the government will have a review of the tasks of the county council with a view to depriving it of power and authority. The Government Platform has no ambitions to contribute to development across the country and to maintain the pattern of residence. If the county council is to be closed and Innovation Norway is to a lesser extent a partner in local, popularised work on industrial development, it is difficult to see the need for force in local policy work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e561	The cooperation agreement between the Left, Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party provides a very good starting point for more offensive environmental and climate policies in Norway. It is important that we have got an early clarification on the Lofoten, the Vestreålen and Senja, that there is a consensus that we should step up efforts in the context of the climate agreement, that we should have a reinforced commitment to infrastructure that includes public transport and rail, and that the nature diversity law is solid. Our generation's main and biggest challenge is to limit climate change. It requires active work to secure a strong international climate agreement, but it also requires that we take on the objective of being an internationally leading environmental nation – also at home – both in order for us as a nation to take our responsibilities and for us to be involved in promoting technological development. We have to be in front of the green shift that we know has to come. There are enormous growth opportunities for the Norwegian supplier industry, Norwegian process industry, old and new energy producers, research environments and technology developers in the years to come. Even after Mongstad — the problems and cascades in Mongstad — it is important that Norway pursues the goal of continuing to lead the world in CO2 capture. We must have targets for the world's cleanest process industry, and there are untapped opportunities in both sea wind and solar energy. We must be competent to use energy more efficiently, and clean and renewable energy must be used to replace fossil energy. To do that, the Left is pleased that we also have an agreement that we should have a green tax change, and there is a case for the Stortinget. But we have to get this started quickly, and we can't wait for one of the big issues. Purity is also important in the transport sector. We need charging stations with fast chargers all over the country, we also need a national hydrogen network that will carry energy in the future, and we need to facilitate biofuels. We're in front of a new winter, and one of the perhaps most unsuccessful policy areas for the red-green government is local air pollution. Many cities in Europe have problems with too high local air pollution, as is the case in Norway. This also needs to be addressed by this new size and government, by providing local authorities with the means to implement their own priorities, but also by taking a national responsibility for reducing in particular nitrogen oxides, which are the emissions of diesel cars and diesel which have increased particularly in recent years. It is important that the measures are proportionate to the problems that we are going to solve and are strong enough. The new government wants to delegate more power to the municipalities, including on environmental issues. From the left we think it's wise, and that's right when we can get better environmental policies out of delegating more power. But it is important to also build up the necessary skills and knowledge in the municipalities. It's a lack of product today. In addition, there can be no doubt that national protection values still have to be a national responsibility. This is done in the right way by creating a framework for greater freedom of action, but better adaptation for municipalities, while at the same time strengthening national responsibility for ensuring that national values are not destroyed – not least by doing what is now also lacking, that the State takes greater responsibility for taking care of protected areas, and that the State takes greater responsibility for ensuring the values of environmental policy – we have now laid the foundation for a very good and offensive environmental and climate policy in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e586	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e589	The government platform has weak formulations on soil protection. It says that the government will take good care of the food soil, but balance soil protection against the needs of the big society. This suggests that the Right Party and the Advance Party want to make it easier to build up agricultural land, especially around the cities and our agglomerations. While we halved the degradation in the red-green government period, we can now experience the reversal of soil protection. My question to the Left is whether they want to ask for soil protection. In the left hand application it says: ‘Earth conservation is a prerequisite for future food production. Therefore, the left will strengthen soil protection and ensure the protection of productive food soils with irreversible changes.’» Does the representative of Elvesuen agree with me that this wording cannot be reconciled with the wording of the government in the political platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e601	For the Left, soil protection is important, and it is important that we do not now have a reduction in agricultural land. The only place where this can be a problem is around nodal and congestive areas, but even where the Left believes that with a good quality of fortification it is possible to avoid the degradation of agricultural land. Soil protection is important, and soil protection must be maintained as an important objective in the years to come, and it will work hard for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e606	I am pleased that the representative from the left now says that they will continue the attempt to get CO2 capture, because there is one of the most important things you can do on the climate side. So there might be no reason – to say it like that – to hare about it more, but work for it. The second is local air pollution, which is an important matter. We agree. But I need the Left now to clear up the impression that was created yesterday by the leader of the Left. She said it was necessary for the Left to give religion a greater place in elementary school education to get the Lofoten and the West Pole of the Christian People's Party. Now the Christian People's Party rejected this blank rather than in a line exchange. Can the Elvesu help to clarify what led the Left to agree to this, when they took a reservation or went out of the agreement in other important areas? Was the Christian People's Party forcing this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e616	First of all, I think there are a few projects that have been less organised and have had a more expensive result than the project in Mongstad, which is definitely not something to be followed up. Then it is clear that in negotiations there are many issues that are up at the same time, without me going into the individual parts of the negotiations that we were in. On the left hand, the cooperation agreement between the Left, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Advance Party is a good agreement – a good deal where we have had a positive impact on the key environmental issues with which we entered into the talks. It is the balance of the agreement and the whole thing that is crucial, and we are pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e623	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e626	I think I have to continue where I left off in the line change, because there is a ambiguity about the attitudes of both the Left and the Christian People's Party in this matter. This is not about whether the Left seems to have got a good package. It's about whether it was true what the leader of the Left said yesterday, that this was forced by the Christian People's Party to get an agreement in place. It is a rather serious matter for parties that both – I think – are in favour of the protection of the Lofoten and the Vestral, in the same way that SV has done. The new government is warning a new direction in some very important areas. This includes the privatisation and use of commercial actors in health and care, and in many parts of well-being. SV is very much for cooperation with non-profit voluntary organisations. That is why we are proposing today that we would like to have long-term agreements with the voluntary non-profit sector. Long-term contracts are also possible in the healthcare system today, but it is the limitation against those who are doing this because they want to run the store and make money, SV wants to get there. There I think there's a sharp dividing line between SV and the sitting government. If not, there are opportunities to agree on this proposal, that we should limit it to the non-commercial ones, as we have done in terms of child protection – and that the government will unfortunately reverse. What's this about? So it's not about what Prime Minister Solberg was on the platform here and said that you had to let private profit companies into this in order to experience that it was creativity. If I had been employed in the public sector now, I would have been deeply offended. I've been working in kindergarten for many years. That was a lot creative, and we could think of even more if we had got a little bit more rougher frames from the ones that were driving us. So it's not that it's just in private companies it's creativity and development of services. On the contrary – those who do this in community solutions have amazing results and find very many good, new solutions that I hope the new government will really support. This is about whether we think we have too much money in this system, so we can afford to secure dividends to private companies that are going to make money on welfare. Many of these companies have also located themselves in tax havens, so that they do not contribute a penny to the community they put their suction pipe down and take money out of it. We in SV want every krone that we pay into taxes, which the government and the Stortinge grant to these areas, to be used for services to the population and for good, proper pay and working conditions for those who work there. Another direction announced by the government is disturbing, but not strange, because both the Right Party and the Advance Party are engaged in right-wing policy, and then it is believed that the one with a lot of money should keep more sail – both people and municipalities. And that's worse. It says that the government will change income systems to keep municipalities a greater share of the value creation where values are created. We could have a discussion about what value creation is -- that's now the one. The second is that it means that municipalities where the wheels go, laugh, who have high incomes, who have high incomes and high tax incomes, will keep more seas and share less with the poor. In my county, which is Hedmark, all the municipalities lose on this. We've figured this out, and we've seen what that looks like. It is a little difficult to understand that the municipalities that are striving to develop businesses are going to be better able to cope with economic development when they get less money. In this case, it is completely contrary to the policy pursued by the Right when it comes to economic development, because those involved in industrial development have to be taxed in order to improve it. So more money is needed to drive business development. But this right will do, and it's completely systematically the richest municipalities where there are most right-wing voters, who win at this. But there are many of the peripheral municipalities of the large municipalities that are losing, and the result will be very different services for the population of this country. That means SV is wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e644	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e647	Services and municipalities are very important, and we have seen that we need to reform. After eight years of red-green government, we have repeatedly heard how many billions they have increased the budget and spent for different purposes. They even promised that they would be able to remove poverty with a pen stroke if they came into government. The right is seriously concerned that the number of poor children has increased in recent years. In order to increase social mobility, the Right has proposed lower childcare rates for low-income families, free kindergarten for children of refugees on the institutional programme, and by June this year we proposed a 70 million bet with the other civil parties. kr to various measures for poor children. As we have heard, the new government is very concerned about cooperation. Can we assume that SV will now support the government's proposals for good and necessary measures for the very weakest in society?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e658	SV will support all proposals that promise those who have the most difficulty. I also hope that representatives from the Right and the new government will support what is in the new budget, namely a package twice as large as the one promoted in the spring to the most disadvantaged. But what the representative fails to mention is all the cuts that have been proposed for the poorest families. For example, over a billion dollars have been taken. kr from the unemployed sole caregivers - the income they have while qualifying. It has been proposed for several years by the Right in Stortinget. Now you also warn that you intend to remove the child supplement for the poorest, those who have the lowest disability benefit. There won't be one person at work if you take this away. In addition, compulsory social assistance is reported. At least it's not new thoughts, it's old thoughts, and it contributes to a disrespectful approach to people who need respect and assistance instead of the kind of argument that Right has stood for in the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e667	SV and the representative Andersen are fundamental opponents of competition in the public sector. It was also clearly expressed in the article that was kept here. But at the same time I have registered that SV is positive to competition in other areas. For example, SV was positive when Norwegian got on the track – that this was a healthy competition that would help to get better services for the inhabitants. The government party believes that public welfare should be publicly funded, but that there is the quality of the services that are decisive here, not who performs them. I would like to ask the question to the representative Andersen: can she explain to me what it is that does not work when it comes to public welfare, but that competition still works in other areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e676	That's because, for example, care for the elderly or the protection of children is not the same as an air trip or a bread. There's a big difference between those services. In addition, it is not the case in this country that taxpayers pay taxes, and the public that grants money to enable traders to sell bread – or travel by air. We don't have that system. What we're saying is that the public services that we're going to do together, we're going to jointly fund the tax bill. We spend that money on it, and not on dividends to shareholders. These are other types of services that we're not going to do because we're going to make money on them, but because it's part of the well-being that people have the right to as residents in Norway. Then it should not be a matter of whether someone sees himself able to make money on it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e683	This lesson I've heard many times before, and I don't get any better at it. We are very concerned that the services should be good. It must be the quality of the services that are decisive — that is what it is. Whether it concerns public welfare goods, or whether it concerns air travel, it must be the quality of the services that are decisive. And if one has different providers, one can also get a lack and a choice that one does not have if one has a monopoly provider. I'd like to ask Andersen, once again, to clarify what she thinks is the decision for why competition is unfortunate when it concerns welfare services in the public sector, when it works and is something SV wants in other areas. This needs to be explained a little closer than what was done instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e692	I don't know if I'm going to take on the job of making the representative Hagesetter wiser, which I think is "heavy work", as we say in Hedmark, but the point is that there is a difference between public welfare and things and services that we buy elsewhere. There is a difference between a car and a sick home. The problem gets even bigger when you see that we don't have too much money to do public services in this country; we really need more to do it better. What, then, is the idea that someone should sit and make money on this, that is, make a profit – not that someone has a salary to do the job, but that someone should also make a profit from it? I'm a happy taxpayer, but I also get a little laugh if my money goes in the pocket of people who are zero taxpayers and have located themselves in tax havens, and who don't contribute five cents to the community sail.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e697	I would like to congratulate Karin Andersen on the new committee and thank you for your cooperation when we were set up in the Labour and Social Committee. I have experienced the representative as a cooperative and genuinely committed person on important issues where the Christian People's Party and SV have a lot in common. So maybe it might be a remark that now, with a new government, we have more opportunities to unite where we agree, and get through to that policy. I experience – at least when a player is constructive, as we have been allowed to do in the past – that we can find good solutions together. There will be important issues in the Municipal and Administrative Committee: local government reform. We see that municipalities have had larger tasks – and are likely to have larger tasks. This will mean that the map may have to be redrawn. It's exciting to hear what Karin Andersen thinks about it. The same applies to the field of asylum and integration, which are important issues in which the Christian People's Party and the SV have much in common. What role does the SV and the representative want to play in reconciling and trying to improve policy in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e706	The President would point out that Andersen's representative only has one minute to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e709	Thank you, President! I would first like to thank you for a pleasant talk and say the same thing. There is very much that the Christian People's Party and the SV agree on in these areas. We want constructive and good cooperation with the Christian People's Party, both in the field of poverty and in the area of well-being and care in common. Then I ask the representative of the Christian People's Party to note that the proposal we have put in today is about protecting the private non-profit actors, and that we will not let the commerce into areas where we believe they have no role to play. There I hope for the support of the Christian People's Party. In the case of municipal structure, SV is for it to take place on a voluntary basis. We are very much in favour of opportunities for local democracy, but we are also in favour of people having equal rights. If, for example: is disabled or ill, or is intended to have a kindergarten or need child protection, it shall be equal and shall not vary from municipality to municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e718	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e722	The right-wing Party government will pursue a policy to strengthen the social security network, to build confidence in the population, and to put the individual at the centre. We want to develop the patient's health care system. Quality and capacity shall be improved and access secure, and the patient shall gain more power in the system. A lot is good in today's health care system. In many areas we achieve good results. Thousands of employees do an invaluable job every day. But we can get better, because many patients experience not getting the help they need, when they need it. Not least, this applies to many of those who have been placed at the bottom of the table: patients with drug and mental health challenges and patients in need of rehabilitation. Therefore, we will instruct health regions to give priority to people with drug problems and mental disorders. We want to reintroduce the rule that drugs and mental health protection, individually, should have an annual growth that is higher than in the somatic environment. We will establish a stepping-up plan for the drug field, which will strengthen both prevention, treatment and aftercare, and will ensure that more people receive a valuable offer and limit the harm from drug use and help more people out in drug deprivation. The government, as we promised before the elections, will make sure to expand rapidly and purchase out-of-work facilities for drug treatment. Psychiatric health is to be an equivalent part of public health work. We will expand a low threshold of mental health provision in municipalities and strengthen the provision of care in the field of mental health protection. Cross-disciplinary cooperation in the transition between drugs and mental disorders should be improved. Too many people are waiting for specialist healthcare treatment and waiting too long. At the same time, we know that there is also free capacity here for private and non-profit actors. The government will use all the good forces in the welfare field and let go of those who want to contribute. It's the patient, not the system, that's supposed to be in the center. Therefore, we will introduce free treatment options into healthcare, first in the field of drugs and mental health protection, because patients with a right to treatment should be offered and the possibility to receive treatment and not to expect unnecessary treatment. This means that those entitled to treatment should be given the opportunity to choose to be treated at approved private treatment centres, if they so wish. Of course, public hospitals should continue to be the cornerstone of public health. They treat all acute patients, they account for most of the research and development and most of the education in the sector. For this reason, the government must provide a boost to quality and patient safety in public hospitals. Activity shall be increased through new ideas and improved solutions. Strengthen the quality work. The same work shall be carried out to prevent adverse events. Cancer treatment should be improved, and we will complement the national strategy on cancer with a plan to ensure competence and capacity. The bureaucracy will be reduced, and we will think again and come up with new solutions. The ICT system needs to be upgraded and its interaction with municipalities improved. The government will have a new governance model for the specialist health service, with a clearer anchoring of responsibility, not least political responsibility. That's why we're going to start working on a more operational national health plan, a wish that many parties in Stortinget have had for very many years. Once this has been adopted and works, we will be able to put down regional health businesses. That is the position the government parties have stood for – and stand for. Until then, the health regions have my full confidence, and I want to be clear that they have the authority and legitimacy to fill the demanding role they have in managing the hospitals. The Government wants the State to take greater responsibility for ensuring that municipalities are equipped to meet the increase in the number of elderly people in need of care and care. It is both about strengthening skills and increasing capacity and getting a service of quality and activity. The right and the Governmental Platform of the Advance Party in this area is an ambitious plan. It's about showing the will to bet, think new and not least put the patient in the center. We need to provide better health care for everyone. That's our vision, that's our goal, and that's what we're going to work for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e748	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e751	First of all, I would like to congratulate Bent Höie on his important position as Minister of Health. For a long time, the right has announced that they will close regional health establishments. Instead, a national health and hospital plan will be drawn up with a concrete description of the content, competence, quality and location of hospitals. But a hospital plan is not a management tool. That's what the name suggests, a plan. I'm still waiting for the Right to come up with some ideas about how to manage hospitals – this important sector. According to the Right, the national hospital plan should cover only the public hospitals. At the same time, the government opens up the right of free establishment for private commercial hospital drivers, who will have to decide where to establish themselves, which patients they will treat, with the automatic right to send the bill to the public – i.e. strong management of public hospitals, but with a potentially large commercial hospital sector that will be able to go under the radar for political governance. How will the government operate a good distribution of resources for the whole country in such a two-part hospital system?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e758	The question from the representative may say a lot about how the Workers' Party has looked at plans that have been adopted by Stortinget, because it seems that the Workers' Party in the Government has not seen the type of plans that a management tool has. This government has a completely different view of plans adopted in Stortinget. We see it as an important management tool. Therefore, one of our main aims is to introduce a national health and hospital plan to move back to elected bodies the kind of completely fundamental decisions that are crucial to the population. I don't look at the Storting as Oslo. I look at Stortinget as the place in Norway where the whole of Norway gathers to discuss common challenges. It is not true that this government is calling for the freedom of establishment of hospitals. On the contrary, the previous government has promoted a proposition for this expansion of the free establishment of private hospitals. I hope I don't get a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e763	It would have been tempting to follow up on this topic, but for the time being, it is so unclear to me what will replace the Right – until the election day – should end, namely regional health companies, and what will happen, that we will get back to it. I want to move on to another theme. I am not among those who believe that we can say today that the Right Party and the Advance Party – or perhaps the Advance Party, but not the Right Party at least – have run from what they promised the voters before the elections. But there's reason to remember part of what Höie and Right promised. Much more roads were to be built, taxes were to be cut by up to 25 billion. NOK, and it took 24 hours from the Workers' Party to launch the promise in 12 billion. kr more to hospitals during the landfill period, also Höie was for this. In addition, he must establish so-called free treatment choices, which he does not know what will cost. I respect the fact that a budget will now be made, but I have to admit that I am excited about how the Vice President of the Right, Bent Höie, will balance all these considerations with Minister of Health Höie's wishes. Can he give us a little indication of how this is to be paid collectively?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e768	These questions will be answered by the representative when the government presents its government budget, both the budget we present this year, and not least the budgets with which the government has the opportunity to work almost a year, as the previous government has done. Then a few answers to how a balances out these different desires. A government platform is a government platform for a four-year period. Of course, it takes account of the economic situation in which the country is at all times, but we believe that we have important and proper ambitions both in strengthening the competitiveness of Norway by investing in infrastructure, and also in creating a better health system that is equipped to meet the population and disease trends we face. Then I record that the government that the representative supports jumped from his own election vow in 12 billion. kr more to the hospitals in the first state budget it submitted after the election, where one is well below fulfilling that promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e775	Until recently, I think there was a misunderstanding when former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg had the word on the matter before today. If we look at how the hospital budgets have evolved compared to what they are governed after today: to next year, the increase is 2.4 billion. $400 million. kr more than it is managed after today. You're up 400 million. kr on top of the increase every year, which at least has been our plan all along, when we reach the goal that the hospital budgets will be 12 billion. kr higher in 2017. It is in good working party spirit to gradually escalate that type of plan. Then I'm excited if Höie will follow up on it too – he confirmed at least that to me in the debate on television yesterday. But my point of asking in the way I do is that everyone who's worked a little bit with economic policy knows that if you're going to follow a responsible oil money usage, govern the Norwegian economy, there's at some point going to be a conflict between everything Höie and Right has ordered the government to invest and the welfare sector, and the tax cuts they've promised. The question again is, what foot will Höie stand on when these discussions come up to the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e780	These questions will give us plenty of opportunity to come back to the annual government budget debates. The right always has the job of providing good government budgets that take account of the economy in the country and balance the different relationships with each other. It's something that this government is going to do. It still remains for me to understand that 2.4 times 4 is more than 12, but maybe the representative can come back to that problem another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e785	First, I would also like to congratulate Bent Höie as the Council of State and wish him every success in his work as Minister of Health and Care. In the nation on 3 September, today's health and care minister was asked if he could outline what a local hospital should hold. The eye-catching response was no, it could not be right about it – one week before the option. Today is 60-70 pst. of all patients admitted to hospital, treated at a local hospital or at a local hospital level. Thus, the local hospital is fundamentally important in hospital provision, because most of the patients are treated there. In order to ensure the quality of local hospital services, the Norwegian Medical Association recommends five functions on a daily basis as a minimum. It's internal medicine, it's surgery, it's anaesthesia, it's x-ray and lab -- this to ensure breadth, quality and good patient treatment. So the question is: does the Minister of Health and Welfare share the Centre's view and the Norwegian Medical Association's view that these five functions are important for the quality of supply?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e792	I would like to thank the representative for his questions and thank you for the congratulations. What the representative here is addressing is a matter that has been agreed over a long time by the Right, the Advance Party, the Center Party, the Christian People's Party, the SV and the Left, namely the need to have a national health and hospital plan containing, in particular, minimum requirements for the content of the different types of hospitals. When I can't answer the representative's question that that's exactly what the Medical Association is proposing, it's because I think we should perhaps involve someone other than the Medical Association in developing these definitions. But what I agree with the representative and the centre party is that we need to get a national health and hospital plan that contains some minimum requirements for what, for example. a local hospital should be included and should be based on the views of the Medical Association and the views of any other professional. We take that work very seriously, and I hope that it will be a good thing for the Storting to be with us and discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e799	I would like to congratulate Bent Höie on the post of Minister of Health and look forward to constructive cooperation. I am very pleased that the Council of State is so clear that he will have a national health and hospital plan in place. It is a very important management tool. I am also pleased that the Council of State has signaled that it will take some time to find good compensation for regional health businesses. So someone has thought that it's too long to spend four years liquidating them. The Council of State may not have ambitions to wait that long. We now see that there are many media lookups related to the conversion process in the capital. The merger of Health South and Health East went quickly. The capital process also went quickly. That's why I'm glad the Council of State is taking some time. But there may also be unfortunate results from the conversion process in the capital, as it might suggest, and my question to the Council of State is therefore: What will he do to gain more knowledge of the process of conversion, also because we might have to engage in new transformation processes in the health sector? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e807	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e810	Thank you for the congratulations. I am very pleased with what the representative says about spending time developing a national health and hospital plan. This is something that the Storting has longed for over eight years in many ways. It is very important for the government that the work is done in a good way and involves local communities and the different professional environments, health regions and hospitals in such a way that what we present to the Stortinget is well and well anchored and provides a good basis for the discussion of the Stortinget, so that it actually becomes the governing tool that a large majority of the Stortinget has wanted. If we set short deadlines for ourselves, we can quickly risk a major project for a large majority in the United Kingdom coming out badly, and thus we will not succeed. So to what you're asking, I've already started and got a first briefing on the situation at Ahus, and have asked for further to make sure they're prepared for a possible influenza epidemic coming around Christmas. So I know that it is a desire for a review related to the capital process in general. There, I need to go in there and look at what such a person can contribute to, what might be the conditions, the criteria and so on for the future. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e819	The President will remember the time of speech. So it's not a minimum time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e822	I would like to congratulate the Minister of Health. We get a capable man in a demanding post. Bent Höie has an ability to reason and argue in principle, which I have often enjoyed, and I would like to point out an example of this: an article under the title «The Patients' Interests First», which Bent Höie had in Our Country on February 27th, and which was about why doctors should not be able to refuse to refer to abortion. There, Bent Höie writes: ‘We shall show tolerance for differences of opinion, but when the personal values of doctors conflict with the patient’s needs, the latter shall be more burdensome.’ Further: ‘The fast doctor is the first woman to meet with the health care system. She will then receive medical guidance, not be met with the moral opinions of a single doctor." And further, the service they get should not be ‘depends on the private morals of the decision-makers. Opening this up is a principle that can also carry off unluckily.’ Why does the Council of State Bent Höie disagree with the representative Bent Höie in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e842	The Council of State Bent Höie does not disagree with the representative Bent Höie, but the government has come to the conclusion that it is actually possible to take care of both. There have been two significant changes since that article was written. One is that the Medical Association has opted for a reservation option, not a reservation right. That article was essentially an article dealing with a custom right of the individual permanent resident. What is now in the agreement between the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right, is a reservation option. Within the scope of action laid down by the National Council Decision of the Medical Association in this area, I believe that it should be possible to take care of both of these considerations, namely that doctors may have a reservation option, but at the same time that there will be no problem in dealing with doctors and patients. I am also, as Minister of Health, concerned that we have doctors who have an ethical reflection and who do not operate on autopilot in relation to the directives they get from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e849	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e852	The vision of the Labour Party is a fair world without poverty and in peace, where people are free, equal and can live good lives in everyday life. We want a society based on freedom, solidarity and equal opportunities for all. The Norwegian welfare model is based on high levels of participation in the labour market, good cooperation between the state and social partners and a wide-ranging welfare society, where people contribute to the community by virtue of their ability through the tax code. The Labour Party's policy is to invest in well-being and community and build it on rather than give tax cuts to those who already have the most. The Workers' Party will have good communications and transport opportunities across the country. Roads, railways, ports and airports help to bind the country together and are essential for industrial development, for jobs and for people to live throughout the country. The needs of both districts and cities need to be met. Increased promotion, better safety and environmental considerations form the basis for the Workers' Party's transport policy. The red-green government has carried out the marketing efforts of the times. There has been a shift in the rate of trade during our government. We have had high ambitions in our national transport plans, and we have respected these plans as the first government ever. Including the 2014 draft budget, more than 20 billion will now be allocated. kr more annually on the road and track than when we took over. That means an increase of 90 pst. since 2005. In comparison, the increase during the Right-dominated Bondevik II government was around 10 pst. But not least, our transport effort has been possible because we have kept the economy in order and prioritised transport over tax cuts. But our massive movement in the last few years doesn't mean that everything is perfect. There is still a lot of work to be done, and planning and projects can be improved. The working party will therefore continue to give priority to transport. The election has given the country a new minority government consisting of the Right Party and the Advance Party. But the voters also made this time the Workers' Party a clearly largest party in the country. Many have chosen our values and our solutions, and I am pleased about that. We have to deliver on it. The Blue-Blue Government Statement contains much that all batches can stand behind, including in the field of transport. We are pleased that today's government will follow up many of the efforts that we have already started, such as: reduction of planning processes with objectives of halving the planning time, procurement of infrastructure maintenance kits, pooling of toll companies for more efficient toll collection, increased use of state regulation for projects of national importance and an objective of more coherent and holistic development of transport, including with regard to funding. Nevertheless, there is also reason to be concerned about my position. I'd like to make a crossword mention of something: The government suggests privatisation within the railway sector and the Post, which can affect unprofitable distances for both mail, track and aircraft. It may also put additional pressure on the pay and working conditions of employees, and in particular the risk of loss of valuable skills. They will also build path and path on pay-off through OPS. It could be easy to get into the luxury trap. They have a lack of climate focus in traffic. There may be something that has been negotiated in government negotiations. But the climate challenges are therefore the biggest challenge of our time, where the transport sector accounts for one third of the emissions and has to be the sector where emission reduction has to come. We need to have more collective and more track. We have to get more of the goods across from road to sea and track, we have to achieve these goals. One thing is the government statement. In addition, we have all the hairy election vows that the Right Party and the Advance Party joined in the campaign on the road. They have promised many new concrete road projects in addition to the effort we have in our national transport plan. I'm excited about how they're going to follow this up, and whether they're going to reduce the toll percentage in dozens of projects lying there, and more that can come. I have to say that I am a little stated when the Progress Party is now running and expounding its election promises that the tolls should be removed from the first day, with only 16 pst. digestion. Now they're part of the government, and that means they have to give and take, and that now means they have to be against cutting all the tolls. Or are they a little bit like that for and against everything because it fits? It's okay to make compromises – I've been to that for myself. But when SV, I remember, got 18 billion. kr to kindergarten with 8 pst. digestion, it is then possible that there will be more booms with the Progress Party with 16 pst. connection? It will be exciting to see what the government will bring into its budget in November.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e883	A comprehensive theme of the speeches in this debate is that we are doing well here in Norway and that things work well. The conclusion is probably used a little different depending on the point of view, but regardless of the position or the opposition, we agree that we have developed a well-functioning and good society over a long period of time. One of the most important tasks of a government is to pursue a policy that triggers commitment, creativity and value creation, and that this is done from a generation perspective. After all, it is this value creation that forms the basis for a continuing well-functioning welfare offer for all of us. The challenge is that in the midst of this good and too many secure society, we are increasingly experiencing individuals who do not get the help they need. People who are obviously in the target group of the actions we have set up tell of experiences where the system has taken over and the possibility of individuals being restricted. The red-green government's instrument has been increased regulation management and focus on allocation in dollars and cents. The new government will make a big difference in this area. From the very first moment, government councils have been committed to following the impact of policy. The government, together with us here at Stortinget, will draw attention to whether the measures are taken, whether the individual is given the help they need, whether the rules stand in the way of the individual's opportunity, whether the offers are flexible, so that they can be adapted to the individual. There is a difference between whether you live in Oslo, in Lofoten or in a smaller place in the South when assessing the measures. Also for those who live in the same place, there's a big difference in what they need to work in everyday life. The last few days' attention on the shortcomings in our follow-up to children's protection is such an example, and a serious warning that we are not hitting. An offer to those who need to experience care, security and trust has huge gaps, and the challenges have been notified over a longer period of time. Kindergartens are an important venue for a good start and a good development for very many children. The lack of qualified staff is high, and the private kindergartens have suffered from a lack of predictability for further investment and development. The red-green government has not paid enough attention to this. New stories are still coming up, and the enquiries to us big-time representatives from desperate individuals are many. They do not always feel that Norway is a good country to live in, at least not for them. I am proud of a government and a prime minister who, after a week in position, has repeatedly stressed that we must better catch up with those who fall outside. The new government aims to strengthen the social security network and close gaps in child protection, psychiatry, drug treatment, rehabilitation, family protection or young people and adults with reading and writing difficulties. This is an offensive and demanding task, but it is absolutely crucial that we continue to say that Norway is a good country to live in. In a good society, all opportunities to contribute, evolve and experience mastery in everyday life. So how are we going to do this? By providing users with a more varied offer, flexible arrangements and choice of solutions adapted to the individual, the safety net shall be reinforced. By employing all the good forces, by appreciating all the individuals and organisations that take the initiative and create good arenas, by working on a voluntary basis, the safety net shall be reinforced. Through the combination of all this, the holes in the safety network shall be sealed. It is good to live in Norway, but the government wants a Norway at its best. We are delighted to take that opportunity. When we have a Norway where those who need a little extra follow-up, a pat on their shoulders, a caregiver they trust, or opportunities outside the ordinary — and are confident that this is in place — we have a Norway at our best.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e902	On 9 September, the voters secured a new majority in the Grand Duchy consisting of the four non-socialist parties, who have then negotiated a cooperation agreement which gave the basis for a new government to be concluded by the Right and the Advance Party. I am proud, but also quite humble to be able to debut in the Norwegian National Assembly and talk about a statement made by the Right-Fremskrit party government. For me and for many, this is a historic moment. For many, it will also be seen as a confirmation that the voters were not as satisfied with the results and ambitions of the former government for Norway, of which it tried to give the impression itself. I'm so lucky to have good experience with civil cooperation in Akershu County. After six years in position, the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left deliver good results in the most priority areas. It's transport, high school and industrial development. The choices are met, the results are concrete, and the positive changes are noticeable for all the inhabitants of this county. Now we're taking the good experience into government and big business to give Norway a new policy and make everyday life easier for most people. The new government will build its policy on freedom and trust in the individual, family, founder, community and volunteering. It means greater room for private, local and voluntary initiatives, greater freedom of choice and not a one-sided focus on collective responsibility and collective solutions. The working line is important, but a prerequisite is that the working capacity is present and increasing. It is therefore necessary to use positive fiscal instruments to stimulate more people into the labour market and, above all, to give more people the opportunity to complete their education, build the necessary skills and develop their individual skills for the benefit of society. Our most important asset is people, work effort and competence. It is therefore necessary to invest more in skills enhancement, and it is necessary to make it more profitable to work, especially for those with the lowest income. The government will base its policy on publicly funded welfare solutions. Well-being, social security networks and fair distribution are important components for creating a harmonious society. But it is at least equally important to prioritize and reward those who create the values: individuals, businesses and communities that facilitate business development. Therefore, policy must assume that values must be created before they can be shared, and value creation must be stimulated throughout the country. The use of oil money must be reversed towards investment in knowledge and infrastructure as well as growth-enhancing tax incentives to ensure future welfare in Norway. For individuals, communities and businesses, it is essential that Norway has a well-functioning infrastructure network that contributes to efficient transport and good logistics. The situation is not felt this way today, even though the outgoing government claims otherwise. There is a need to build both roads and tracks faster and more holistically. The Government statement contains the right instruments, both organisationally and financially, by reducing the planning time, coordinating the objections and establishing a dedicated development company and infrastructure fund. In addition, the government will invest a greater share of the income of the State pension fund abroad by road, rail and other means of transport. From this point of view, it has to be allowed to have some obvious ambitions. Hopefully, with a new model, we can avoid building up pieces and dividing them, like this. E18 through Westfold, which took several decades, and instead carry out whole projects on the road and track. I hope that the new E18 westwards through Bærum and Asker can be one of the first proofs that the model works, because the East and the capital have an acute need for new infrastructure due to a growing population. We also need to speed up the building. Here it is important to underline what is on the platform, to bet on greater local self-government, to limit County access to over-tests and to simplify planning and building law. Then we can build more – and we can build more adapted young people who are in the start-up phase.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e928	The right-wing Party government will pursue a policy for generations, with increased confidence in individuals and a strengthening of the social security network for those outside society. Unfortunately, there are too many people today who do not get the help they should have had. There are people with mental health problems, many in rehabilitation and child protection and adults with reading and writing difficulties. The government will help more by offering more varied and more targeted offers with greater freedom of choice for the individual. Most people are well off in Norway, but there are still many outside the country. The government will work for Norway to be a country with small differences and minimal poverty. The government will therefore present a package of measures aimed at children growing up in poor families. A stronger safety net is about many things, including: on a more modernized hub, a simpler hub and a debureaucratic hub, a hub that celebrates more of its attention to help the individual return to work, and a hub that pays more of its attention to helping those outside. We remember all TV 2's reports about seriously ill children who have not received the help they should have had. That is why I am proud that the new government wants to reform the care pay system and care allowance for sick children and disabled people. We all remember in winter the deaf-blind Harald Vik who did not get the help he was supposed to have. That is why I am pleased that the government is going to review the accompanying arrangements for deaf blind people and the practice of the legislation we have today, in order to ensure real opportunities for participation in leisure activities. I am very pleased that this government is lifting the purchasing power of married and cohabiting pensioners by reducing the reduction from 15 to 10 p.m., which means that married and cohabiting pensioners get an improvement in purchasing power of around 8 000 kroner. In order to strengthen and ensure a better safety net in our welfare system, we also rely on the creation of values. We depend on a well-functioning working life, a working life that ensures high employment and low unemployment. The right-hand party government wants a safe, flexible and family-friendly working life with room for all. Therefore, the government will set up a working time sample according to the shift and rotation model, where we will investigate how the labour force can best be used, where we will also look at how we can reduce involuntary part-time, and not least, and most importantly, ensure that more disabled people are included in the working life and when the dream of being part of Norwegian labour and contributing to skills and facilities. If we are to succeed, it is important for this government to have good cooperation with the social partners. It is important to work well-functioning tripartite cooperation where all parties are considered equivalent. It is important for this government to achieve the objective of a safe, flexible and family-friendly working life. It is also about contributing to a decent working life. Therefore, the Right-Fremskrit Party government will continue its efforts towards social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e951	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e955	I have already congratulated the Council of State. It is – not surprising – not very much that is clear from the government yet, it has not been sitting for a very long time, but something is clear: the government has said that those who will in the future become retirement pensioners will reduce their pension. So the government has been clear that those who have a lot of money in terms of wealth will get less tax. Does the Council of State think this is a good policy of redistribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e962	I am very pleased that we are going to review the disability scheme – a review that ensures a good retirement pension for those who go from disability to retirement, and that you get the same lifestyle adjustment. I think it's wise and reasonable that people who work and stand on should not get a worse retirement pension than those who go from disability. But I want a fair and equal treatment for all old-age pensioners. It's a work we're going to go through. How we conclude, we'll naturally come back to Stortinget with, in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e967	The government is now pushing ahead of those who work until they retire, but there are no proposed changes or improvements for them, there is a proposed cut for those who are illiterate, perhaps born illiterate, and who have been destitute for their entire lives, who today seem to see that there is no full adjustment in life, but the government has said that they want to adjust the pension for them in full. It's a clean cut in the uneducated old-age pension in the future. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e972	It is true that this government wants equal life expectancy adjustment both for those who go from disability to retirement, and for those who are retirement pensioners, in order to ensure equal, less bureaucratic and fairer legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e977	I will be allowed to congratulate Robert Eriksson as the Council of State and look forward to good cooperation. We had a good cooperation in the Labour and Social Committee, where Eriksson acted as leader, and I look forward to him now being the Council of State. The notes that are in the post of the Council of State are incredibly good. There's a lot there that the Christian People's Party can only sign, and we're happy to see that the issues come to the Stortinget and can be implemented. Then there is one field that we in the opposition have worked a lot with the last few years, namely child poverty. There the Council of State announces that he will bring a package of measures. In the Grand Duchy, we have promoted many common proposals, concrete measures, targeted at those who are the poorest. Therefore, the signals from the Council of State are very good, and I would challenge him if he would engage in dialogue with the Storting, so that we can play the package of measures, or the proposals that will come, even better, so that we can get concrete and targeted measures that can help those who are the poorest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e986	First of all, thank you for your congratulations and congratulations. I can ensure and assure the representative Robstad that when we present our package of measures against child poverty, the government will do so in close cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, and we will also be responsive to any good proposals that may come from the Storting, which are within the direction set by the government platform. But close cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party in designing these measures can make the representative Ropstad feel safe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e993	I too would like to congratulate the Council of State on its important work. In the case of workers, safety of labour income is the most important thing. It provides respect and material security. Around the world, we see unemployment and social distress, and it forces people to seek work in the good country of Norway. Manning companies are in many cases involved, and they show great ingenuity by circumventing Norwegian pay and working conditions. It also leads to unfair competition for the companies that then operate under Norwegian law and Norwegian guidelines. It has a major negative impact on large parts of the world of work. Differences in income and working conditions are increasing dramatically, and it is now statistically documented. My question is: Will the Council of State move from the freest movement of labour to the will to regulate the scale of labour immigration from the EEA territory – i.e. from the freest movement of labour to the willingness to look at different schemes, where one is willing to limit and regulate labour immigration? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1002	No, no, no. This government will facilitate the same labour immigration as the former government has provided, in the same way as is laid down in EEA law, where there is free movement of labour. At the same time, I would like to take the opportunity to say that it is important for this government to go ahead and look at how to prevent unprofessional entry into the Norwegian market, to have good and close cooperation with the social partners. It will be important to simplify the regime in such a way that you do not punish those who behave well and do well in the business world, but rather direct more of the efforts to take the unprofessional. In this way, we get a better working life and a more open working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1009	Congratulations from the Left are also in place of the Council of State Eriksson, which is set to rent a region where the Left has a large involvement. Some of that government council has to throw itself over immediately is working on a new IA agreement. Just before Stortinget left each other before the summer, the proposal from the Left on a modern, safe and flexible working life was handled in this room. One of our suggestions was to make many of the IA agreements a positive instrument for all the companies and all the employees, regardless of whether they have entered into a collective agreement. This applies, for example: organisation allowances, occupational health care allowances and permanent contact person at the workplace. That proposal received the Left's votes and the Progress Party's votes, including the vote of Robert Eriksson. My question is therefore: is the Council of State Eriksson in agreement with former representative Eriksson that this is a good tool that should be applied to all enterprises and all employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1018	I very much agree with the representative Rotevatn that it is important to start work on renewing the IA agreement – to reach a good IA agreement that achieves the three objectives of the IA in a better way. It concerns both keeping sick leave low, reducing sick leave, strengthening inclusion to ensure that more people with disabilities enter the workplace, and not least ensuring that more seniors can stay longer in the workplace. These are the three main areas on which the IA Agreement is based. They'll be the direction of the government's work now that we get started, and then we'll come back when we know more about how we attack the different things, about what the result is. But I think we're going to do things in the right order. The left has good opportunities to record all good suggestions, and then, naturally, we will listen and listen to proposals that come from the Left and the Christian People's Party in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1025	I also wish the Council of State good luck with the appointment and with the job. As a member of the Labour and Social Committee, I look forward to cooperation and also to taking place in the future. By June at the latest, Robert Eriksson, the current representative of the population, said that the ‘pension reform is the well-being of the times’. In the Government Declaration, the Advance Party goes in so that the disabled will no longer be helped to weigh up so that they cannot work extra to get as good a pension as others. This happens because the shielding against the so-called lifestyle adjustment is cut, and the government is also alerting us to cut too late. How much will poverty increase as a result of the Progress Party – in its own words – ‘welfare’?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1035	Let me first say that the Progress Party would like to see more of its pension policy implemented. But it is now time that the pension reform was dealt with in this room on 23 April 2007 and the Progress Party also acknowledges that the Stortinget has made some decisions, from 2007 to 2009, which we are dealing with, and which we are now going to conclude and implement in a good and good way. Then I – as I said from the pulpit – am very happy and very pleased that this government is now reducing the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners. This means that you get an increase in purchasing power for married and cohabiting pensioners of NOK 8 000. Those who go around saying that it's a fence, they like to go around and think it's a fence, but I don't share that view.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1042	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1045	I would argue that the most important result after eight years of red-green government is that never has any generation earlier in Norway's history had as much individual and personal freedom as we have today. This is a freedom for the individual who is a social democratic value. We have also achieved another important objective of the red-green policy in this period, and that is that virtually everyone has been involved in social development. This is in stark contrast to developments in the vast majority of other countries, including our neighbouring countries. It is not right, as Prime Minister Solberg has said earlier in this debate, that many fall outside. It is also not right, as Robert Eriksson said – although he is right to point to individual cases – but I can trust the Council of State Eriksson that he will probably also be allowed to experience that. What is the reason why we have had such a development? I believe that the main reason for this development is that, over this eight-year period, society has been governed by politics and not by the market. It's the most important tool we have for social smoothing and social protection. In contrast, Prime Minister Solberg and right-wing leader Solberg have for a long time argued, also in the election campaign, that the Labour Party's policy is 'umodes' – she has used that expression – that we are only defenders of the systems and do not take into account the individual, she has said, and that the strong Community structures stand in the way of individual freedom. Minister of Finance Siv Jensen – of course – has gone much further. She has said that the Norwegian model «is in the way of the Norwegian people». She said it ten times in her national meeting speech. Now – and that's what I'm doing in this post – all of this is gone. We now hear from one government representative after another – and the representatives of the government parties in Stortinget come up to this pulpit and say it – that most of it is good in Norway. So that's a completely different tone. The Declaration of Government states in black and white that the tripartite cooperation, which is the basis of the Norwegian model, must form the basis for the government's work. So it's a completely different political understanding and philosophy than what the right parties have been presenting to the Norwegian people for years. It's amazing that no one has seen this before. Everything is now to be taken step by step, says the Prime Minister and the Council of State. After all, it is universal knowledge that policy still needs to be improved. In the red-green budget and in the throne, our government showed the strength and initiative of course to continue the development of Norwegian society. Of course it is, because we live in open democracies that dynamically change. On the other hand, the statement of the blue-blue government reflects very little on all faults and shortcomings – in the election campaign over the years. On the contrary, it now seems that the new blue-blue government is quite satisfied with social democratic policy. That's nice, if that's true, but it's not. Because in that case, all analyses of the Norwegian society to which the right parties have presented us must now have been abandoned – and thus many promises have been broken before they have been tried at all. This is why we are facing very serious changes — changes that will change Norway in significant areas. For what else is it to be understood that what has already been mentioned here in the debate is: the quotation ‘Production of welfare services differs little from other types of services’? No, over time there will now be new and completely unnecessary differences in our society. It is a development that must be combated by all the policy instruments at the disposal of the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1064	The government of Solberg, like the three previous governments, will place emphasis on the importance of the northern regions in its political activities by pursuing an offensive north-eastern policy, a policy to build up under economic development, take care of Norwegian interests, strengthen cooperation with Russia and the polar states, and lay the basis for activity and settlement in the north. It is the government's ambition to ensure a clear national presence, sustainable management of natural resources, strengthening environmental protection and infrastructure development. The government shall conduct a north-eastern policy that sees the people and the settlement in the north. The government aims to develop North Norway to become one of Norway’s most creative and sustainable regions. The Nordic regions have a high potential for value creation, and it will therefore be important that businesses in the region are involved in achieving this. The Government will facilitate the region to take advantage of its natural advantages and strengthen its educational and research environments. In this picture, local democracy and the principles of local self-government become important tools. The national community should both have a sense of and have real opportunities to participate in this development. This must be done on the country's own premises. Then it becomes important that land management moves away from the social democratic idea of dealing here with a preserved nature reserve, and rather promises the principle that proper use is the best protection. The environmental and climate challenges are particularly visible in the north. The melting of the police opens up the possibility of a northern sea route between Europe and Asia. Increased ship traffic – both freight, cruise and petroleum activity – increases the need for search and rescue services and for environmental protection. Increased sea temperatures cause species in the sea to change their patterns of migration and open up to new industries. Over the course of a few decades, the Arctic, the Arctic and neighbouring coastal areas have gone from a security policy area to an energy and food policy centre. Through three large-scale communications on the north, alternating governments have both described and reinforced the importance for Norway — both in terms of security policy and in terms of economics. The review tonne has been that, through the development of the north areas with increased activity in the form of maritime transport and resource extraction, Norwegian presence and sovereignty enhancement have to be ensured. When the government of the platform will ensure good framework conditions for developing clusters of nutrients in the mainland in the north, for example. in relation to the extraction of oil and gas, this is in recognition that we also need to rust North Norwegian business to become involved in the development that comes. To the previous speaker, Mr Kolberg, I would like to reiterate that when we talk about tax relief for business, it's actually about moving funds to the Nordic business community, so that you can participate in the development that comes, and it's about power distribution. In fact, a profitable and powerful business in the north is also important for us in that part of the country to be able to participate in the development that has been so glitteringly described through several big messages. In the last few days, we have seen many examples of who, where and why people are rich in Norway. I think a more important discussion should be the value of human capital. As a politician, it is rarely painful to meet young people who may not have the education they needed, or people who are in the middle of life without a job because their professional skills are no longer right. I come from a part of the country that needs a lift of skills. There's a lot of new things going on in the north, and it's important that we get involved. Then we also have to adapt the knowledge training to what's happening. Fortunately, this has been taken into account in the government platform. North Norway is far and diverse — rich in natural resources and rich in diversity of people. Therefore, the formulation of a comprehensive management and development plan for the sustainable use of natural resources becomes important. In exploiting the resources, we're going to take into account the traditional industries we have in the north. The need for minerals, energy and food in world markets must be balanced by the need for marine food, sanitation and agriculture to grow as modern industries into the future. There is a lot of consideration to take in a part of the country with so many primary industries. Increased activity in mineral extraction and tourism is expected, and the needs for infrastructure development in a modern country often conflict with the practice of reindeer management, agriculture — and perhaps fisheries. The three primary industries need spaces and opportunities to develop into modern industries in order not to be swallowed. This government will continue to play a key role in developing the northern regions – now also by emphasising concrete measures such as empowerment for citizens, competitiveness for local and regional businesses and, last but not least, local democracy and local autonomy. That's how you build society from below.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1085	I read in today's Evening Post that the Prime Minister says she has confidence in the prime minister. For a government that has told them to cooperate with Parliament in a good way, this expresses a strange form of parliamentary understanding. It's probably not the prime minister who's going to trust the prime minister, it's the Stortinge that's going to be the top organ. I'm assuming that this is a way to talk about the Storting that won't go on. The government follows up the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy in its declaration. We often say that Norwegian foreign policy is firm. It should not do that, because in a world that is constantly changing, we often have to change our policies, but we have to be predictable and stand firm for what are our values. The Government Platform introduces the concept of ‘realistic foreign policy’. I guess no one's against it. But if you take up with this the old discussion between idealism on the one hand and realism on the other, I have to say I disagree with such an interest bill, for Norwegian involvement in human rights, the environment, peace building and aid is in line with our own interests. The threat of climate does not stop at the national border, it affects us all. A better organized world is in our own interests. Peace and reconciliation efforts may limit human suffering and prevent the spread of terrorism and crime. It's also in our enlightened self-interest. If commitment to these matters is seen as pure idealism, I would say this gives us a stronger voice internationally. We've become a more important nation, and we're often listened to because we have an engagement beyond ourselves. This was presented by our government in St.meld. No 15 Interests, responsibilities and opportunities. The emphasis on Norwegian interests in the formulation of Norwegian foreign policy was widely endorsed in this room, and I assume that the government is standing by this main line. A little bit simplified we can say that there are two pictures of Norway out there in the world. One is a small, rich country that is self-satisfied and proud of itself. The second picture is a small, rich country with great will and ability to create a more fair world. That is why I believe that Norwegian aid is important. We are one of the few countries that have not cut the aid budgets, but which, on the contrary, have increased them in recent years. It's not the opposite of our self-interest. The Christian People's Party said before the elections that assistance is the most important thing. The party has now helped to remove a government that had this – 1 pst. – as a goal, and I assume that the Christian People’s Party and the Left will create a majority for the 1 pst goal in this Chamber. I also agree with the government's priority of girls and education, but women and health are important in development policy. I expect the government to have an equal voice in the work of women's right to prevention and abortion, and that this commitment is maintained. The Workers' Party regards the north as one of the most important strategic areas of activity. The agreement with Russia on the divider line is an example of that, and I am glad that the new government says that they will follow up this effort. Norway is also one of the few countries that have not cut the defence budget in recent years, we have strengthened it. There are great commitments in the new long-term plan, and the Stortinget has unanimously adopted a very important investment in new fighter aircraft. The changes in defence have been significant, the operational capacity has increased, and we have modernised material and structure. Now we are facing major changes in the Air Force. The right has protested against some of these changes without considering what they themselves want, and has thus not exactly brought forward any major implementation where conversion proposals have raised local protests. I now expect that the party will not make any changes to the decisions that have been made. Our government followed up the action plan by a hundred percent. Concerns have often been expressed on the right. I am curious whether this concern is present today and whether the party will add defence beyond what is in the long-term plan. I am concerned that we should have a new and modern understanding of what are Norwegian self-interests. I read in the government statement that there is a desire for greater concentration on some aid countries. But if we're going to have a big and extensive commitment to human rights, it also demands presence in many countries in the world. I would warn against cutting aid, among other things. to indigenous peoples of Brazil and to cooperate on women's rights in El Salvador and Bolivia. We're going to stick to the values of Norwegian foreign policy, and I'm going to redefine what is Norwegian self-interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1104	The right-wing Party government will base its policy on confidence in individuals, families, entrepreneurs and volunteering. Norway is getting better by using all the good forces. Voluntary and private activities must be shared with the public to perform community tasks. When we can play together well, we'll see Norway at its best. A better Norway is growing out of creativity and industriousness. With freedom and confidence in the inhabitants, the government we now have will give greater arms both to those who will create new businesses and jobs, and to those who burn for volunteering. We want to value their efforts and commitment, we have confidence that they want the best for the people around them. The government will rely more on trust in its policy – that’s a good thing: trust that individuals make reasonable choices, so that we can regulate less confidence that the elected representatives will do the best for their community, so that they can gain greater responsibility and confidence in culture and volunteering to the best of society at their own premises, and not just become instruments of government confidence that families themselves can find good solutions over the kitchen table, so that politicians can control the level of confidence that private and voluntary people in child protection, health, rehabilitation, preparedness and much more have good intentions, so that we can use all good forces in common effort for a better society; We are so lucky to have got a government that will build the country to get Norway at its best. The voters have wanted new solutions to the challenges we face, and together, the Christian People's Party, the Left, the Advance Party and the Right now have the opportunity to implement the necessary reforms and changes that the country needs, not least to speed up road and rail construction. The Government will base the generational perspective on the policies to be pursued and ensure continued high employment and increased competitiveness. By investing in more infrastructure and knowledge, Norway will have more legs in economic terms and will be better equipped to cope with a future in which reduced oil revenues will have to be compensated in other industries. For the vast majority of people, transport challenges are not about billions of dollars, public–private cooperation or planning authorities with objections. For the vast majority, for people out there, everyday life is about the possibility of commuting to work and at the same time picking up the nursery. It's about the possibility of living in the districts, but it could also transport goods to customers in other parts of the country. It's about efficiency and comfort, and above all it's about safety, so you get home safely. After the summer of the year on Norwegian roads, traffic safety figures are again on the road in the wrong direction. This is worrying. A stronger focus is needed on road safety measures, including: through more construction of mid-drawing works. The road and rail networks have deteriorated for each year. This development must be reversed. The government is therefore building up the country with new instruments, and I am pleased that they are now clear that they will halve the planning time, plan longer distances, improve the calculations of the profitability of transport projects and reduce policy detailing management. This is good. This will improve the efficiency of the transport sector and improve the quality of decisions. New ideas and better solutions will help to speed up the construction and maintenance of road and rail sections. The right-wing Party government is clear that you want a simpler everyday life for most people. We have a government that will build the country. In order to provide good welfare services and ensure competitiveness, we need high-quality, efficient infrastructure. In summary, the transport policy of the new government can be described with one sentence: faster, simpler and safer transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1149	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1152	With as much talk as it was here yesterday, in and outside this hall, it was easy to notice the hook of political Norway where it was very quiet: among the women in the Right when it was about the right of reservation for doctors – or the possibility of reservation, as it is now called. The right has a tradition of freeing its representatives from abortion issues. Several of the Right-wing Representatives broke out on the Data Storage Directive case. Earlier today we could hear Prime Minister Erna Solberg ask Stortinget to vote for what you are in favour of. I wonder if she also believes that the representatives of the Right should vote against what they are against. My question to the representative of Hofstad Helleland is: is there any problem in the right when it comes to this matter? And if the answer to that is no, the natural follow-up question is, why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1161	I want to reassure the representative that when we were present at the meeting in the Right House where the cooperation agreement was presented, there was full agreement both from all the women and from the men, who were a member of the Right Grandfather's Group. It was fully in line with that agreement. What we are sure of is that, in cooperation with the Norwegian Medical Association, it will continue to ensure the safety of women. I hear that the Workers' Party focuses on small municipalities, where there may be only one doctor. There, we're not going to hire a doctor who wants to use the reservation facility. All girls, all women should be sure that when they contact the medical office, they should receive the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1168	It will be very exciting to see how transport and communication with the new government work. It promises so much when it is said that one should increase the bet in addition to what is presented in the red-green NTP. But what this means is an appropriate question. Does it mean that one is committed to the same ambition that E39 should be built for a maximum of 20 years? Does this mean that a building the City Ship Tunnel, which mirrors? Does this mean that a person not only continues, but increases the amount of racial protection and other areas, or is it enough that one fulfills the promises by giving more total permission to travel? That's an important question. I want a response to the ambition for a free E39. I would also like to comment on why there is a system of less tolling in the Austland, while they are being held up and actually increasing heavily in the West, as is right in what has been said from the government party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1176	I thank you for the question from Klinge, and I also heard the question from the representative Klinge yesterday asked the Minister for Transport. It was about a lot of the same thing. Our excellent Minister of Transport answered in a very good way. Yes, we have high ambitions. We want to get many new meters of road and track built. We want to be more offensive than the government that has been to now, also because we want to organize, streamline and apply new ideas to lift the infrastructure. Of course, we're going to come back to the concrete projects we're going to go into. I also believe the representative Klinge understands that it was difficult in a government platform, for those who sat and negotiated, to assess each individual project. But now we have to be very excited about what the government will come back to over the next four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1183	I think there are many who are not guaranteed by the renaming of the reservation right to the reservation option. As far as I can see, this is the same thing. No one has proposed a reservation obligation, which would be the natural counterpart of an opportunity. Girls and women who want to have an abortion are likely to find themselves in a very vulnerable situation. They can face the condemnation of the environment, and it is precisely then that the neutrality and support of the public health system is so important, and that everyone has the same rights and meets the same public health system. This is something the Right has meant even for many years and has been very clear on. Now the right no longer means this, and the right also says that this is not a question of the right to abortion. So then my question to Hofstad Helleland is: what is the representative of Hofstad Helleland that the thousands of women who are now engaged in this matter have failed to understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1192	What I understand is that we politicians should approach this issue in a slightly humble way. I may think some representatives in this Chamber are dealing with such difficult issues, to which difficult dilemmas are attached, in a very simple and populist way. Having said that, I would like to stress and make it clear to the representative Serigstad Valen that neither Right nor I will ever agree to limit women's rights and the ability to control their own bodies, and no women or girls looking for a doctor will meet a judgmental attitude. Therefore, I think it is very good that we also now clarify which doctors this applies, so that you also have a choice in choosing away the doctors and the prescribers who use the reservation option.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1199	I think it's quite special that the party that is shyer about receiving dedicated emails from activists teaches others what's simple and populistic. And I can't at best understand what's so populist about from this pulpit to quote a very glittering post – written among other things. by the current Minister of Health – in Minerva. That's a good, principled and durable argument, which Right so far in the debate has not managed to give a satisfactory explanation as to why they have gone away. So I almost have to ask again, because I didn't get a satisfactory answer: what is the representative of Hofstad Helleland who has understood the conversion right now, which not all the women who worry about their right to self-determined abortion without condemnation, have not understood?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1206	I was probably one of the representatives who first responded to the enquiries the deposit representatives received from the blogs that started with these enquiries to us. I spent a lot of time giving a thorough answer, where I was also very clear that I have changed my position on this matter. I also explained well what now makes me confident that girls and women looking for their regulars will not be met with a judgmental attitude, and that we can never agree to limit women's rights and the ability to determine their own bodies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1211	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1214	In the debate yesterday, and to some extent also today, there has been a lot of talk about history, and the statements of an editor of an Oslo newspaper that the previous government went to the canvas and covered the table have been referred many times. After the last civil government took over after a labor party government, i.e. in 2001, the unemployment rate was 2.7 pst. When they left the table in 2005, the release was 3.5 pst. It was the same development in my home country, Hordaland, but what was especially true for Hordaland – a state of competitive industry and competitive business – was that the unemployment rate was higher than in the rest of the country. What we've done in the eight years that the country's been run by a red-green government is that we've got a lower leave. We have a lower leave in Hordaland than in the rest of the country, and this has happened despite a major economic crisis all over the world. We blew off a tax haven that would only benefit the richest, and we spent that money developing community goods. We've reduced economic disparities in these eight years, we've got good results in schools, we've got better results in the health sector. In Hordaland we were also in this period remedied the division that caused the Health West to receive less funding than the other Health Norway. So to the extent that the table had cloth and was covered, it was for very few guests. What we did was cover up to even more and invite to a real spice team for everyone, who could also contribute and enjoy the joys. And that is because, as the representative of Kolberg said, we have left the country's governance to policy – and not to the market – during this period. Hordaland is a large energy group. We have power-processing industry in Hardanger. Along the coast we have a strong and upstream petroleum industry. In the 2005 election campaign, one of the major questions in Hardanger was whether we were able to get enough power to the industry. We needed a new industrial power regime after the liberalisation of the power market. This was completely impossible, was heard from the time municipal minister Erna Solberg. We completed the construction of a new industrial power regime. Before the election this year, I was on a campaign tour in Hardanger. The industry and the trade movement in Hardanger are very pleased with the work that was done, and the change was: now it must not be shaken by this. In Tyssedal, the owners have announced that they will invest $6 billion. kr in the Ilmenitetwerk Tizir, as a result of good framework conditions. Now we see something that could threaten this good development, and I'll draw out two relationships. In the last period we saw an intense flirting from both the Right Party and the Advance Party around the idea of rocking through the consolidation model and public ownership of the power resources. This is a serious threat to the good results we have achieved in the melting industry. The next thing we've seen is the discussion about foreign tables -- about who should be able to operate these foreign tables and what should be the basis for the construction of foreign tables. The signals we have received from the Right and the Advance Party – that we want to privatize this, that anyone can start building a foreign table – we will warn against this. There will be a threat to many jobs in Hordaland. On the kerosene side: We delivered a kerosene message in 2011, which created great joy in the industry, and which had a broad majority behind it in the Stortinget, and where one of four important parallel activities that needed to be carried out in order to achieve what was the message’s title – An industry for the future – was to open new areas. We received criticism from the Right and the Advance Party throughout the last period that we did not open new areas outside the Nordic region. What we see when these parties take over is that the first thing they do – in fact during the exploratory negotiations – is to say, apart from the possibility of implementing these areas and other areas in the north. The Prime Minister spoke of policy-making from a generational perspective. This is a grip that will produce effects in the next generation. It would take 15 to 20 years to have activity in these areas if you had started now. That opportunity is wasted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1237	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1240	The political platform of the blue-blue government provides the outline of the policy over the next few years, although the final policy will find its design here in the Storting – which has been repeated from both sides of the House, if I can put it this way. Something is the Workers' Party for, and something we're against, and other things we just don't know yet, because the government's will is still unclear in some areas. But the underlying premise is clear: ‘The Government considers initially that the production of welfare services differs little from other services.’ In addition, it says: ‘It is therefore absolutely necessary for competition to become a horizontal element of public activity.’.» Then we know that some of that government will submit to the Stortinget, will be a long step away from what we know as the Norwegian model. The government simply says that treating, nurturing and caring for the sick are services that are produced – just like changing tyres and hairdressing hours. In health policy, this is reflected in an ideological approach to the use of private health services and the winding-up of regional health businesses, in order to facilitate market access for private operators. For the Workers' Party, the most important thing is that patients receive help and treatment. This is the responsibility of regional health establishments today. Health enterprises are regional and not local, because in a small country there are benefits in planning healthcare for larger populations. They are regional rather than national because there are good reasons why responsibility should be as close as possible to those affected. Despite all the limited medical expertise in a small country that Norway needs to be managed sensibly and for several reasons. Compromises can always be improved – including today's model. But why should things necessarily get better by shifting responsibility from Bodø, Stjørdal, Hamar and Stavanger to Oslo, while at the same time making health policy in the Stortinget a single major But according to the health minister's statements, we don't see any of this in the first four years. The Labour Party is impatient about improving the quality of our hospitals, and we look forward to the new Minister of Health's presentation to the Stortinget, where we get the outline of how this is going to happen. And we hope, of course, that the Minister of Health is up to his promises from the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1263	We live in one of the best countries in the world. Much is good, and especially the representatives from the outgoing government have recently reminded us of how well things are going in Norway. However, the history and heritage of the Stoltenberg II government are much more nuanced. I therefore want to take the time to present one of our greatest challenges in society, namely the great drop-out in high school. Today, 13-year-old schooling is considered part of basic education, and for many of our young and hopeful, it is very important to endure this race. In yesterday's main speech, the parliamentary leader, Jens Stoltenberg, told us that the results are going forward in Norwegian school. Today – also followed up by the representative Trond Giske – he repeated this. However, the overview of the Minister of Knowledge, Kristin Halvorsen, shows that less remains our basic education. Higher education in Norway has a regrettable downward curve, despite the fact that the outgoing government has spent quite considerable money on its New GIV project. Politics is about prioritizing, and the Red-Green Government's New GIV bet was so good, but let me remind the representatives that this project only addressed students at the end of their high school course and their transition to high school. At the same time, let me remind the representatives that almost all students are already choosing to go from high school to high school – with too weak basic skills, but the question must then be whether a government should use the big money and the political focus on early schooling, rather than at the end of high school. Some red-green representatives may replicate that they have also prioritised early intervention, and they may point out that unskilled homework in 1–4. Steps as well as school fruit are measures that contribute to good early school learning. At the same time, let me remind the representatives that the performance development in primary school and the government's own evaluation report on homework shows something quite different. The latter shows that no action is taken. This has the Right Warning against. In addition, it shows that our 8th grade students have still not reached the 1995 level. Therefore, the question of whether educational assistance is more appropriate for the mid- and early stages is quickly reported when the professional challenges increase and lessons become more difficult. Not everyone can ask for help at home. There should be knowledge, skills and effort to decide – not who your parents are or where you come from. We shall work together to ensure that every human being succeeds.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1280	It is a great pleasure that the voters gave the country a new government after the elections, and that they gave the new government a good mandate with a broad bourgeois majority, resulting in a historic bourgeois cooperation agreement. But this, of course, means giving and taking, as long as one party alone does not have a majority. This means making compromises. There's nothing new in this room. We've seen that in the last eight years, when the then government parties had to compromise all along. But what is important is the whole of policy and the direction in which policy is pursued. Then I'm glad that we now have a government that has faith in individuals, and that is also clear that all the challenges in society are not necessarily solved by politicians, but by having faith in individuals. I am also very pleased that the government is ready that it now wants to reduce taxes, make it even more profitable to work, reduce the deduction, remove the inheritance tax, reduce the taxes on wealth, etc. It is a matter of having confidence in the individual, and the role of politicians is to ensure that everyone has a good basic safety net and a fundamental well-being. An example of the fact that tax itself is no longer a measure, but an instrument, is that the government has warned that they want to investigate the famous ROT deduction, which makes it easier for people to clean up their homes in a more reasonable way and at the same time ensure that they get tax credit for it. The effects in Sweden, which introduced this in 2008, are positive. We also see similar schemes being implemented with good luck in Denmark and Finland. The party of progress has fought for this long time. No later than 17 June this year, we proposed this. I'm also happy that we're now choosing to put individual individuals over the systems. I think very many of us remember the heartbreaking story of Harald Vik, who was deaf blind, and who lost his companionship because they chose to put the system over the individual. Now we have a government that is aware that it has faith in the individual, and I also look forward to working with the other parties in the United Kingdom on how we can renew employment policy and make sure that we have a good social policy, which is working to get more groups into the labour market and to modernising working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1296	Norway is the world leader in maritime competence, and it is our innovative solutions that lead Norwegian maritime nutrition to the world summit. The Christian People's Party shares the ambition of the Right-Fremskrit Party government to focus more on knowledge, innovation, research and development. The maritime industry is the industry in Norway with the highest value creation after the oil and gas industry. It employs about 100,000 people and creates values for approx. 150 B.C.E. kr annually. We must continue and further develop the enormous competence and innovation that is in the maritime industry. Being world leaders on the wise minds of this sector gives us the greatest competitive advantage. It gives us a leading role in environment and sustainability, advanced technology and other forward-looking solutions. We are in the front in the case of LNG-powered ships, electric ships, ballast water treatment, new hulls and a number of other solutions. At the same time, Norwegian maritime industries are drivers of environmental requirements and stronger regulations within the IMO and locomotives to cut emissions and attract industry internationally in an even more environmentally friendly and sustainable direction. This has to be continued. If we're going to make it, we're going to have to bet on youth. In this regard, Nor-Shipping has had a great Ocean Talent Camp earlier this year, where between 10,000 and 11,000 high school students were presented with the enormous possibilities of choosing a maritime profession. In addition, we have YoungShip, which has a lot of commitment to increasing the number that chooses the maritime industry as a professional path. YoungShip is an international organisation that started in Norway and is run by fires in the industry. These do an impressive job, but they need us to go with them – that they don't have to pull the load. That's why it's very positive that the government wants to strengthen education in maritime nutrition, because this is important. Maritime nutrition has been down-prioritized. We have textbooks from the 1970s. Unfortunately, the boats from the 1970s have already been scrapped. That is why we must train for the future. We still need to be at the forefront of sustainability and the further development of environmental technologies with a view to further emission reductions. We need to get even more wise heads into the industry and ensure that maritime nutrition enables Norway to maintain its world-leading position in one of the world's most important industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1311	The red-green government was to be the government of Society-Norway, unlike the political forces that now have government power, forces that have market-Norway as their vision. We red-green population representatives experienced eight years with a historically unique increase in real income for many – for strong groups in the world of work almost unreal. Nevertheless, differences in income between people, industries and districts have increased sharply. It's just looking around in everyday life. In my view, the EEA Agreement is the main area of concern that prevented the vision of the Red-Green Government on Cohesion Norway from creating enough enthusiasm in our ranks to win the election. That is why this issue needs to be high on the agenda for this large-scale period. We will also experience great social and political unrest in the euro area, which will, as we have said, reinforce the debate among several professional groups, and the consequences for Norwegian business and employment will be much more serious than what we have experienced so far. Martin Kolberg concluded his speech by saying that the new government had programmed to pursue a policy that would make greater differences among people. Kolberg probably thought the most about the situation of employees. I think of those who work in the necessary professions for the country, who are not mentioned so much, either by professionals or state councils, but who keep Norway going every day. In addition to the life situation of these important people, the Centre Party considers the enormous economic differences resulting from the two-way division of business, where record-breaking activity related to oil and gas is absolutely central. In addition, we also think of the industries and districts that are increasingly characterized by lying in the oil shadow. It can't go on like that. Like Martin Kolberg, I would appeal to inspire and engage people against increasing differences through political debate. But this has to happen by that we, who are the followers of Cohesion Norway, think about what is necessary and unite our forces on some theme that is important to everyone. For the Centre Party, agility, profitable business across the country, proximity to welfare services and resolute meeting with climate challenges are important issues. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change published the fifth main report in the autumn and there is now more scientific evidence that climate problems are man-made than that cigarette smoking is harmful to health. Then we have to correct the market forces. Then we have to be willing to use CO2 tax on what is the problem – the fossil carbon – to strengthen the profitability of the other. There could be one theme on which the people of Cohesion Norway gather.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1329	As a newly elected Rogaland depositor, there are many things I'm concerned about. Two of these things are higher education and public transport. After eight years of underemployment in universities and colleges, I have expectations that the new government will contribute to a promise for these institutions. The new government has underlined that they will build their policies on knowledge, that they will step up their research efforts and that they will focus on long-term research policy. This promises good for the forthcoming budgetary proceedings. In Rogaland we have one of the so-called new universities: the University of Stavanger. A common feature of the new universities is that they have been underfunded for several years in relation to established universities. It's a historically contingent bias that seems to have been amplified year after year. Let me take a fresh example of a lack of willingness to bet on the new universities. In the government's proposal for a government budget, only 4 out of 60 scholarship positions in biotechnology, mathematics, science and professional science are awarded to the UiS, and these are disciplines in which the UiS is good. I therefore assume that the explicit commitment of the new government to the knowledge society also implies a commitment to the new universities. I also believe that my colleagues on the Rogalands bench and other depositors from other states with new universities are concerned that this historical bias will be corrected in the coming years. The government parties have agreed with the Left that public transport in cities should be strengthened, and I am pleased about that. It is clear from the government's declaration of accession that there is a desire to invest in rail and public transport, both because it will contribute to reducing CO2 emissions and because it would reduce the challenges in the housing market and give cities room for growth. In Northern Ireland, there is a need for a large-scale effort on public transport, both in order to achieve the climate objectives we have set ourselves, and because parts of the area are difficult to access as a result of high levels of private car use. The left has been concerned with the need to increase the state investment grant, and such an increase could provide the basis for a good collective offer in our region. An increase in the state contribution will also allow the region to re-assess the high-value collective services it wants to invest in. I hope that in common we can get this in place, and at least I can guarantee that public transport – alongside a university and higher education profession – is one of the top priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1349	In the last eight years, there are two words that have been used by people, organisations and other groups out there. It's long-termity and predictability, and there are two words that are actually very important. Around the country, we see that some road sections have been built up as a two-way road. So if we look at NTP, which we all know is a plan where it doesn't come with funds, we have to fight every year to get enough money for different projects. Now it's like starting to build a two-field road where the new government actually wants a four-field road, it doesn't sound good. The road system, which actually investigates different alternatives, says itself that they have only investigated from the frameworks that the red-green government has provided for eight years. This really means that we either get some kind of vacuum or that the project is being postponed indefinitely. This is what the new government wants to do. We can, among other things: change the normal road standard, i.e. lower the threshold for the construction of four fields. We can use more realistic figures for our road construction. As it has been in the last eight years, estimates have neither taken into account one or the other. We can apply state regulation. There are road sections where we see that one municipality fights against the other municipality, where the entry goes out on one side and the other municipality absolutely does not want the road to enter their municipality. We can also lower the number of hearing bodies. Who has not heard of various mosquito colonies or ancient memories that it has taken many years to investigate before an important road has come into place. Time has come to get better and cheaper roads and even faster development. As usual, the outgoing government receives dividends from major companies such as Avinor and NSB every year. There have been criticisms from, for example: Avinor, who is unable to solve the problems that the government has imposed on them. It goes without saying that we should not take the surplus into the state budget, to a state that is already rich enough, but rather allowed the surplus to work in the company, for example. Avinor, so you can get things in place. Avinor, who has monopoly, with the red-green barriers to development. It's time to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1362	I choose to stand down here. We're just celebrating the Supreme Court ruling that the fishing quota should not be forever, with dry fish, so I think the president can be happy that I'm not standing up there. The new government platform provides for moving values and power from people to companies, from small communities to rich municipalities in the east and west. Let me exemplify this from my own part of the country, North Norway. North Norway is rich in resources, and Norway will continue to be increasingly dependent on resources in the north. We have fish, minerals, and we have huge energy resources. But it is not stated that natural resources benefit those who live there. For who is the government that wants to sit in the driver's seat when deciding what to do in the future? The new government will shift control of fishing resources from coastal communities to the stock exchange through extensive privatisation. They will intensify their work on mineral extraction, an industry that offers very little value-added, which can distort traditional industries and future industries. They propose that oil and gas in conflict situations be given priority over other industries, with important exceptions in areas such as either the Christian People's Party or the Left Water through in the cooperation negotiations. Looking at the tip: shall it be the narrow desire of Shell, Smoke and Frederiksen to decide the future of North Norway? Or will the future be shaped by the dreams and the Creator's Throne of the Northern Norse people? The new government platform is setting up a new municipal economy model. Here one suggests that municipalities with head offices and capital owners get even more of the cake. Losers are strokes where large values are created by small communities occupied with fish and agriculture. This will weaken the well-being and construction and, as a consequence, Norwegian value creation in the long term. SV is consistently on the side of the people and the environment. For us, it's obvious: the future depends on us using the whole people, the whole country, in a resilient way. This perspective must permeate everything we do. In Northern Norway, we used the election campaign to show that there is another possibility for development in the region, which will create far more jobs, which will be at the forefront of the Nordic countries, pointing towards a much more exciting future than to turn Northern Norway into a host country. That's what's saying yes to North Norway. This is also an important basis for which I have been selected. I want to increase this mobilisation in the future, especially at a time when the politics of the right-hand side will dominate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1377	The president thinks the representative should take up a minority proposal, which is distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1380	I thought I would mention it in a comment a little later.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1385	The President perceives that the representative has taken up the proposal he has referred to and has been reminded of, so that's fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1388	Yesterday's debate and today's debate have been a lot about the environment and climate. I think that's good. It is important that today's greatest challenge characterizes the political change of words in this Chamber. During the ageing period, we need to consider what new measures we need to take to contribute to the reduction of global greenhouse gas emissions. In 2015, a new international agreement shall be adopted that will challenge us. Hopefully we'll take a position on Kyoto 2. I'm excited what the Progress Party will do here. We need to follow up and strengthen climate reconciliation, and we need to look at all policy areas against climate action. Yesterday SV promoted a proposal to bring forward a new climate communication. They have received many ironic comments from both the Left and the Right, including from the Prime Minister. It cannot be negative or strange that many of the parties on the Storting are impatient about the climate work. On the contrary, it's important. What's weird is that, for example, The left, which makes itself the big environmental and climate party, which has been involved in setting up the government, takes time in this debate to clarify what the government thinks. That's what I think is special. I hope I heard a mistake when the Prime Minister said today that she could not promise a message during this period. I guess there must have been a speech problem. In the last growing-up period, I was so lucky to be working on development issues. The climate and poverty problem is closely linked. It is the poorest countries that are hardest hit by climate change. I have to say that I think it is inconsequential that the government assumes the 1 pst target for assistance. This target has been important for Norway’s overall effort. The environment is about more than climate. I am concerned that the Storting in this period also raises other environmental issues. The Government Declaration states that biodiversity ‘is best preserved through a combination of sustainable use and voluntary protection’. What does this really mean? Voluntary protection is important and includes, for example: have been used extensively in the field of forest protection. But what does that mean for other environmental types? I believe that we also need to use protection through law and regulation. I'm worried that we can now get a weaker protection. Nor does the government write in their statement what they want. They will review the practice. Then, of course, I wonder what it means in practice to go through the practice. It's going to be interesting to get clarity on this in the future. I think we have had two good days of debate in Stortinget. I hope these can set the standard for further discussions we're going to have in this room. I would also like to make a request that it is allowed to have a good mood.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1403	Unlike previous speakers, I think that the debate has been quite predictable, with known and dear greetings home as usual as should and should be. That's why I'm going to talk about something completely different. As a member of the Justice Committee for eight years and for four years on the Foreign and Defence Committee, I am proud to have Norwegian democracy as a tool. The one who has impressed me so far in the change of government that has taken place is the retired Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg. I think the way he handled the election defeat and the transfer of power from him to the current Prime Minister has been exemplary. The behaviour and behaviour of our retired Prime Minister is in stark contrast to the individual members of the Workers' Party, who have obviously been deeply concerned that someone else could at all think of governing the country without having the party book in order. This is directly reprehensible, some would claim. When you think people are so capable that they should continue – because they are so good – you throw overboard the whole basic idea of democracy, the will of the people. Then you can equal it or you can't equal it. As I said, I think what has happened is good, and the outgoing Prime Minister has done a formidable job. There is also a strong contrast in many ways to the posts I heard yesterday from the representative of the Light Hill. When the Light Hill repeatedly goes through the amazing solutions SV has, he has a challenge in my opinion, for the connection to SV the time they have been in government has gone one way. Then there is either something wrong with SV's solutions, or they have the wrong people here. We don't intend to replace the Norwegian people, because they've done an excellent job once again during the election, so it's like SV probably has a bigger problem than that. Then I registered the day after the election that the Center Party is the Center Party, and I think that's good. It's a quality in itself when some people in the Center Party say the day after the election that we're getting a new government, we're briefing on it, and then we're going to join in and find good solutions where it's natural. That's good, because politics is about power, and power is influence, and then you have to look for the possibilities that exist. I have heard that much of the debate here has gone on: What about the Progress Party – you have promised and promised and promised, and then you may not be able to deliver? To those who are concerned about us, I would say the following: Our concern may not be the greatest in this room, it may be the most applicable to our voters, who have great expectations that we will settle with all that we have pointed out for 40 years now. And we're going to do that, but we're going to do it through a reality check, which some people had to do yesterday: the fact that the Progress Party got 16.3 pst. breakout at last option. We would've wanted fifty point something, we didn't get that. We're not going to replace the people for that reason. We're going to deal with the fact that we're part of a minority government. We're going to fight for our business and contribute to the best for most people, and we're going to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1418	We've just started a new expansion period. Through small and large cases, we will spend the next four years making Norway a better country to live in. But what's going to be written in the history books about this Greatness? What is that story going to judge us by? I don't think it's going to be what prohibitions we remove, or what we do with the property tax. I think it's about how we solve the major global challenges. One billion people live in starvation. We can't say it's none of our business. The red-green government was able to achieve the goal of 1 pst. in aid, and it is sad that the blue-blue government has chosen to go away from that ambition. Obviously, it's not the percentage in itself that's the target, but the percentage has made it possible for us to increase our contribution to the world's poorest every year. We need more, no less, assistance. If the Right Party and the Advance Party follow up what they have said in the Storting, it means cut in the billions class. Cut billions into the world's poorest, to spend it on tax cuts for Norway's richest – it won't be more unfair than that. We cannot fight poverty without simultaneously resolving the climate crisis, because these crises are linked, and together they are the greatest challenge of our time. We in the Workers' Party are proud of what we have done in the climate issue, including: through two climate settlements in Stortinget. But no government can say that you've done enough for climate, because the challenge is so big. That's why we in the Workers' Party want to improve and strengthen what we've done in government – now from the opposition – both what we're going to do in the world and what we're going to do here at home. In the era of the throne, the red-green government at the very beginning affirmed that this is our main challenge – in great contrast to the blue-blue government statement, because in the government's eight challenges to themselves, climate challenge was not 1, it was not among the challenges at all. This, combined with the fact that we have received ministers who have said in the past that the climate crisis is almost a socialist idea of having a reason to introduce taxes and taxes in Norway, worries us about the government's overall efforts for climate and environment. But it is when the policy is put forward that the government must show that it is still delivering. From the Labour Party, we promise to be a constructive opposition to climate and environmental issues, to help improve climate reconciliation. But we also promise to be an impatient opposition, because we do not have time to wait – and more important than that: the climate of the globe does not have time for us to wait.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1428	The main tasks of the specialist health service shall be addressed at public hospitals. Those responsible for emergency treatment are those responsible for research and education. The majority of the elective treatment will continue to take place in public hospitals in the future. As the population grows or the population age, the need for healthcare is also increasing. Then we have to facilitate increased capacity in all parts of the healthcare system, including the many private and non-profit actors we have around the country. The red-greens continued to claim that the purchase of healthcare from private operators increased, but it is a fact that within this part of the healthcare system there is an unsolved potential. In some parts of the country, for example in the Stavanger region, population growth is so high that the need for more and/or larger hospital buildings is high. It is therefore gratifying that the red-greens listened to our proposal to increase the state share of loans to hospital buildings. It makes it more realistic to implement a larger development project. In addition, we want a national hospital plan and separate the public hospital buildings into a separate company. The hospital debate is often more marked by the location of services than by the quality of services. At the same time, we will strengthen quality work in all parts of the health sector. So it's like health professionals and patients don't just depend on good construction and good equipment. Good access to high-quality medicinal products is also required. The cost side of the new treatment regimes is often given considerable attention, but there is also a need to look at saving in terms of better quality of life and shorter duration of treatment. During the period we will receive a medical report to Stortinget. It is my hope that we will ensure patients faster access to new and effective medicines, and that we will ensure good and effective distribution of medicines and, in particular, good information on the proper use of medicines. The right-hand party government aims at a stronger development in the Norwegian pharmaceutical industry and research. Twenty years ago, a Norwegian-developed drug was among the world’s top sellers; in fact, it was top seven – an x-ray contrast agent developed here in the country. If we're going to get there again, we're going to need an offensive research policy. We need to be more able to look at health, research and business policies in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1437	Never has any government taken over a country where things go better than they do in Norway today. Eight years of red-green rule have made Norway an even better country to live in for most people. Safe economic governance, an active industrial policy and a good labour market policy have led to an upward trend in the economic downturn and financial crisis across Europe. For the Labour Party, the most important thing is to keep unemployment low and employment high, because all unemployment is a bad thing, and youth unemployment is particularly serious. I hope that the new government will continue our work to ensure that fewer young people fall outside the labour market. The Bondevik II Government will remove the Youth Guarantee. We brought him back in again and strengthened him. I don't hope Right this time too will cut the guarantee of youth and reduce efforts to help young people get back to work or education. Now, when we leave the government power to others, it's good to see that the new government's statement contains a lot of things that we can all be aware of, and I'm glad that the government is continuing with several of the initiatives that we have initiated. But there is also a lot in the statement that I strongly disagree with, among other things. there are a number of measures that will shift power from employees to employers. The working party is critical of this, because the strength ratio is already different. Employer with strongest cards. Only strong laws and good professional organisation will enable this to be smoothed out. If we fail to comply with the Work Environment Act, we give employers even greater control over our working day. If exceptions to the laws are to be decided at the workplace, it is more difficult to say no to the individual worker. The difference between us and the blues is that we don't want to weaken the power of ordinary workers and trade unions. We do not want workers against their will to be able to be charged work at evenings and weekends, and to receive less overtime. We don't want anyone locked in the insecure temporary insertions involved. More evening and weekend work, longer days and more temporary settings – there are no ambiguities; there are restrictions on employees. A safe and decent working life is an important part of the Norwegian social model, which means that we are at the top level internationally when it comes to combining even income distribution, good welfare, competitiveness and innovation. This puts the blue-blue government in play when they now claim to modernise their working life and soften their work environment laws. On the contrary, the changes they are proposing will lead to a harder work life, and the end of their history will lead to a more modern work life by turning the clock back.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1448	It is with great joy, expectation and humility that I have taken the seat of the National Assembly after 14 years as a local politician in the municipality of Seljord in Telemark – the last six years as a spokesman. In the last few years as a local politician, I felt that the local space for action was getting smaller and smaller. This is an experience and an experience I know I share with many other local people. State overgovernment and government leadership have made local policies less attractive. Others have already taken the choice for us. It is therefore gratifying that the Government Platform and the Cooperation Agreements state that the municipalities are the foundations of Norwegian democracy. The government will strengthen democracy by shifting power and responsibility to the municipalities. This will mean that most people get more influence over their own everyday life and their own local environment. It's in the municipalities that people live, it's in the municipalities that welfare services and welfare services are given to the inhabitants. Local solutions and priorities must then be provided. Planning and land work is a very important task in municipalities. Many municipalities experience a small degree of self-determination in this area, but a large degree of government contradictions in land and level work. It is gratifying that the government platform determines that there are locals who know their own challenges best. The government will therefore facilitate more local adjustment of land policies. The accessibility of the county to review the judgement of the populace will be reduced by limiting the ability to review the decisions of the municipalities to review legality and review complaints. This is a very important and good message to Kommune-Noreg. The government will carry out a municipal reform in which municipalities will have more and more tasks, which will require more robust municipalities, with a strong professional and competence environment. Some populaces are concerned that there will be coercive strokes, and fear little of local involvement. On the other hand, I feel confident that this government, as demonstrated by the political platform and the cooperation agreements, will place emphasis on good democratic processes, where municipalities are active in the reform process. The goal is strong and living municipalities, where local democracy has good conditions, and where it is exciting to be elected by the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1466	On 10 June this year, the Stortinget dealt with the maritime food notification. A unanimous rise joined the red-green ambition of Norway as the world’s leading maritime nation. One of the areas where we are already the world's foremost is resource management. In fact, Norway has on several occasions been identified as the world’s best manager of marine resources. Many ask how Norway has done so well — competition is unfortunately greater at the other end of this list. There are several reasons for this, but knowledge of the resources understands everyone is important. That means prioritizing marine research. To date, the Minister for Fisheries has been responsible for both marine research and marine resource management. Of course, it has been both logical and helpful, and it has been very important. Of course, it is much easier to know what to give priority to resource research when at the same time responsible for resource management. Let me do one example. So when you sit with responsibility for the mackerel negotiations, you're the one in the world who wants the most knowledge about the spread of mackerel. That's why I'm more than surprised when I see in the Solberg government that marine research and marine resource management are shared between two state councils, in an area where Norway to the degrees has succeeded, in an area where we have great international recognition – and not just recognition: several countries are in line to get help developing their marine resource management after the Norwegian template. Is there this approach to contribute to the sustainable use of resources in the north, which the representative Bakke-Jensen was so concerned about in previous articles today? He was also concerned with overall management plans in the north. In the government of Solberg, the Minister of Transport is now responsible for the interests of the maritime industry in this work, since the Coastal and Environmental Department has moved from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs to the Ministry of Transport. Nothing wrong said about the Minister of Transport, but this is a field that may be a little outside. In the election campaign, many along the coast were concerned that the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast would be closed at any government change. No, we should just take it easy, insured Right. Now we see the result. Now it splits up, and I challenge Prime Minister Solberg to tell us what new ideas and better solutions are going to come out of this. Unfortunately, I am afraid that this operation contributes to a weakening of the efficiency of a very important sector of the Norwegian maritime nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1481	Infrastructure is the very bearer of a modern society. It is good to see that the government has set itself the goal of Norway’s topping. We need a modern transport network, at the level of comparable countries. Unfortunately, we have so far seen projects throughout the country where stories have been the same: they have been built too little, too expensive and too slow. The result is queues, poor roads, high accident rates, loss of knowledge and expensive transport costs for business. The challenges are many, and the need is great. Unfortunately, ‘maintenance kit’ has become a well-known word. It's a word the people know and see the consequences of it every day. In most counties there is a huge number of kilometres of old and worn-out country road, with the need for both maintenance and initial investment. When something is neglected, extra effort is always required to recover. That's the way it's going to be right there. Norwegian infrastructure needs a huge boost – implementation, not just promises. The planning time must be down. There is currently too much unforeseeability in Norwegian roads. This makes society vulnerable and weakens competitiveness and value creation. It also weakens our common future. In addition, we need good monitoring to get the right priorities for action. We need optimal national transport corridors. We have to think more comprehensively, and not least we have to venture to give priority. All-shell-ha-lit thinking will make the challenges completely insoluble. Some of the projects will require extensive development and renewal, and this will take time. The government has set the goal of making people on the road feel safe. Unfortunately, this is not the case today. Let me show you to Hordaland, which I so far know best. There are several accident routes that fight a tired battle to lie at the top of the country. It's about meeting accidents and race. We have E39 and E16 – also called the Way of Death – and today there was a new breed that is closing an important transport corridor between east and west. In terms of safety, short-term and long-term considerations must be considered. Priority needs to be given to small and medium-sized enterprises. In addition, it is necessary to provide for the use of technological possibilities as an immediate measure. The use of technology, ITS, needs to be strengthened, and monitoring, such as: georadar and various warning systems are one example of actions that can easily be implemented and eliminate the experience of gambling.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1496	The social democracy freedom project evolves as time passes. New stages of life still need freedom because we are growing more and the starting points are changing, and then the policy needs to be adjusted to ensure equal opportunities for all. I could have, and should have liked, used my post to talk about freedom for more people, about the real freedom of the future, but after the debate yesterday I can't, because once again I have to stand here and spend time fighting a freedom fight I thought had won – this time in 1978, when the Stortinge passed the abortion law. 1978 was the year when Dolly Parton was on the Billboard lists with 'Here you come again', and here it comes again, the discussion about the right to determine your own body – without detour. The government's desire to give decision-makers the opportunity to reserve the right to refer women to abortion is to have the patient's right given when the abortion law was introduced – without discussion, without going about it, without having to see a doctor other than the one you always knew, without having to take a long time, without having to get an extra strain in an already vulnerable situation. That is why there is currently no such right of reservation, because, as the Minister of Health said, the patient should be put in the centre. He should have added "when appropriate to the right". Right all of a sudden tried to pretend it's not dangerous, that it doesn't apply to so many people, that it doesn't have much to say, as if it doesn't matter. We know that there are about 200 doctors who want to make a reservation. It means something to several thousand patients, it means something to her that can't explain to her family why she's going to change doctors all of a sudden. The practical and detours that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party will send out the girls are one thing. Another thing is the social situation of these parties, which this debate gives. High, dark statesmen from bourgeois parties have in all channels given emphatic notice to ladies who are in an extreme, vulnerable situation, that the abortion they have committed or have to perform is such a cruel act that they have to discuss themselves until then. The functioning of the right of reservation remains unclear. Every time the Right gets a demanding question about this, they say they need to find a solution with the Medical Association. But while the Right is sitting there with the Medical Association and drawing the map over the roundabout women have to go to get the help they need, there are some at the other end of this matter that are not being heard. Hundreds of women have tried to influence the process. They're being waved away, they don't get to sit at any table to discuss their rights, they're being told that they lack the custom of people. This debate is so retrospect that D2 will soon make a report that it is modern again. This matter concerns more than the right of reservation. It is about what policy should be, who it is for, what value issues are, what democracy is and what lies in the word ‘representative’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1509	Military defence is one of the central tasks of the State and Norway’s security is ensured by committed international cooperation. Norway has contributed to operational and credible military capabilities in international operations and has built up, over several years, a sound competence and experience in war zones. Norway has gained international recognition for our participation, operational ability and the way in which we solve our missions. This is due to good education and training, our modern war equipment, our culture, with the good and solid way we do our mission, but most importantly, our human resources. Personnel is the defence's most important resource. That's why I'm very happy that the government has focused on the people of the military organization. Today, we're using millions to train professional soldiers and departmental officers, but we're giving limited opportunities for a lifelong career in defense of these. The Government will modernise the command system and introduce a specialised command system to the standard of NATO. This means that the Defense will be able to offer several of our capable professionals a lifelong career. In this way we both care for the people in the organisation and we maintain the competence of the defense needs. This will contribute to better resource use, improved skills building and better care of the people in the organisation. In addition, I am very pleased that the government takes responsibility by improving the follow-up of the Defence veterans with emphasis on health and social follow-up, financial security and support for relatives. This shows that we take full responsibility for our warriors and women. We train and train them, we send them into international operations, and we take care of them when they come home, especially those with physical or mental damage or war damage. This is to take responsibility for the entire human perspective of our warriors and women. It's important, and I look forward to good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1520	Is it a new idea to privatise basic welfare services, use OPS, reintroduce two-year-old cash support or facilitate a KRLE subject? I have to admit that I thought Right's slogan in the election campaign was pretty cool – new ideas and better solutions – but after reading the government statement, I have to say that I said again with the impression that this was a lot of a slogan. The government statement contains a lot of things that we're all about, but it also contains some points that make me enormously disappointed, especially the thing that many people have taken up here, both yesterday and today, the matter of booking rights. This is a fundamental issue and debate on women's freedom, but also on the right to equal services throughout the country. In Telemark, this matter was highly topical only two years ago. Then there were young girls who went out in the media against their decision maker because he refused to print out prescriptions on the pill to them. At that time Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen, who was then Minister of Health, went out and pointed out that it was not in line with the legislation. I was so proud that we had a Minister of Health who was so clear on this matter, and I was also very happy with the young people's behalf, who thought it was quite difficult to stand up to their settler in a small community. At that time, Right agreed with us on this matter – they were actually some of us in the election campaign as well. They're not anymore. I was therefore very surprised when I heard Right's parliamentary leader, Trond Helleland, yesterday saying that if one came to a doctor who had reserved, one could only go to another. But what Trond Helleland and I have in common is that we come from the districts, and there's not always so that one can just choose another, there can actually be quite a few miles to the next fixed. The girls here won't have the same freedom of choice as girls in the city. It could lead to greater differences between people, and it broke with a fundamental principle of equal health services across the country. So I heard from the representative Linda Hofstad Helleland today that Right didn't want this to apply to lay in small municipalities. For me it now bears witness that either there is a movement in the Right, or there is full confusion between the Right's own representatives. I could think of a clarification of this, because if it's the case that a person should not be able to make a reservation if a worker is working in a small municipality, it means in practice that a person does not introduce a reservation right anyway, or that there is a mini-reservation right. Who shall it apply to and how shall it apply in practice? Minister of Health Bent Höie said in his speech today that the new government should have the patient in the center, more power for the patient in the system and more help for the patients who do not get it help they need. Then I hope that those words also apply to the girls who need prescription on the pill, referral to abortion or assisted conception. These girls need to be met with the help, understanding and guidance of their decision-maker, and not be met with denial and a wall within the public health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1533	I have been waiting eight years for a government with ambitions on behalf of Norway. I have been waiting for a government that will think again, which will base the generational perspective on the policy it is leading and which has visions for its future. For eight years we've had a government that's measured success in the number of dollars it's spent. Now we've got a government that will measure success in the results achieved. For eight years Norway has been administered by the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party. Now Norway shall be governed by a historic bourgeois majority in the Stortinget with Erna Solberg at its head. The slogan of the Labour Party in the election campaign was: We take Norway further. The bourgeois government will also take Norway further, but the difference between us and the Workers' Party is that while they want to take Norway further on in exactly the same track, a track perspective message says that is not sustainable, we will take Norway on to a Norway at its best. The petroleum industry has been, and is, a happiness for our country. Measured in value creation, state income and export value, this is our biggest industry. It bears to a large extent our ability to further develop the welfare society on their shoulders. Therefore, it will also be important in the future to invest in this industry and increase extraction on Norwegian soil. We're going to be proud of our story as an oil nation. Not only has oil found in Norway enabled us to build the Norwegian welfare state as we know it today, but it has also helped to make it possible to invest in research and development of environmentally friendly technologies. If we are to solve the climate challenges of the future, it is essential that these efforts are maintained. The heritage of the red-greens is more oil dependence. And even though I'm proud of our oil industry, there's a cause for concern. If the division of Norwegian economies continues as it is today, we will face major challenges as the oil is no longer a fixed item of revenue on state budgets. To prevent this, we need to use our revenues from the petroleum industry to invest in infrastructure, knowledge and research, environmental technologies and increased competitiveness in the jobs of the continental industries. Only then can we build a Norway on its best for the future. It is our responsibility as politicians to think for more than four years at a time. That's why we have to use the incredible possibilities our country has because of the oil, better than today. Oil revenues must be used to create lasting values. The generations that come after us will inherit a sustainable society in better condition than we do today. The policy we adopt today will affect the kind of society we live in in 30–40 years. Therefore, the generational perspective must be based on the development of new policies. And as a representative of many young people in our country, this is in particular a responsibility I am happy to be able to share.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1552	Tomorrow is the UN Day – a day dedicated to making the people of the world aware of the UN's goals and achievements and ensure the upswing of the UN's work. I have, together with several colleagues, been given the opportunity to visit New York to become better acquainted with the important work the United Nations is doing in many areas. And if that's what I want to communicate after the visit, it's that the United Nations system, in close and good cooperation with non-governmental organisations every day, is helping in many different areas and with a clear and clear goal of helping billions of people around the world to meet a morning with a better starting point than what they woke up to today. There is no shortage of crises and challenges in the world. It was also on the big political agenda the first week we were there. Exciting and interesting it was to be in the middle of this, but at the same time frustrating to see how difficult it is to find agreed solutions that everyone can accept. The crisis in Syria is such an example, and in the meantime millions of people are on the run. We are experiencing a humanitarian crisis that the world has barely seen before. It's also a picture of the UN we need to bring with us. The representative Hareide said in his speech yesterday that it is important that Norway is not just itself enough – a view that I and my colleagues in the Workers' Party share with him. There is no doubt that Norway has goodwill in the UN system for our financial contributions to promote fair distribution and poverty reduction in developing countries. And from this perspective, it is disappointing that the Christian People's Party chooses to be a guarantor of a blue-blue government, which will not continue the 1 pst goal in our aid work. In the government statement, the new government says it will: ‘work for a modernised, strong and effective UN’. We all agree on that. I also know that the UN as an organization is very concerned about it. But when the government in the next sentence writes that they want to twist Norwegian efforts and financial commitment ‘in the direction of those parts of the organisation that effectively deliver good results and work in line with Norwegian priorities’, it makes me uncertain. Then it would be natural to ask questions about what the government puts in such a statement. How to measure effective, good results in e.g. the work of child soldiers, the cross-section of girls, poverty problems, women's rights and equality and in relation to sexual and reproductive health? Work in all these areas does not produce results today, nor tomorrow, but over the years. Therefore, I fear that the signals given here by the blue-blue government will create uncertainty about Norwegian future priorities in many of the UN's key programme areas where the results will come over time. To conclude, I would like to take the opportunity from this pulpit to send a greeting to all the Nordics who are on a peacekeeping mission today, and not least to extend a great deal of thanks to all our veterans who have contributed to the important peacekeeping missions that are the very foundation of the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1575	In the debate, the opposition has continued its terror propaganda that took place during the election campaign that public health will be weakened when the Right Party and the Advance Party take over the governance of the country. There's talk of a welfare experiment, and there's talk of increasing differences among people. The reason for this is that the government wants to use private operators to reduce health cows. This is produced as a weakening of the public offer. Then it is interesting that, in August this year, the former minister of health and care at a private X-ray institute in Drammen announced that the health region would receive more funds to purchase private services, so that the queues for X-ray research would be cut short. It is gratifying that the Workers' Party also sees the need to use resources in private health services to reduce health cows. Since the red-greens came to power, the queues have actually increased, and by today there are 260 000 queues. It's just a shame that this kind of play comes when it's a campaign. The government of Stoltenberg entered in 2006 to limit the purchase of services from private operators, which is a contributing factor in increasing the waiting time for investigations and investigations that could have been quickly avoided. Let me stress that the support of the health care system will be the public offer. The objective of the Right and Advance Party Health Policy is to ensure a good offer when the patient needs it. Today, it has begun to be such that those who have funds can take advantage of private health services. The red-green government has begun to create major differences in Norway. Since 2005, the number of Norwegians with private health insurance has increased. Now more than 300,000 Norwegians have private health insurance – many through the job. It can create a classed health system. This should worry the opposition. The government wants everyone to get help when they have a right to do so, not only those who have the best advice should have the opportunity to buy out of a queue. It shall not be necessary to do as Øystein Lorentzen of Bodø, who paid out of his own pocket to undergo heart surgery in Germany. It cost him $85,000. The alternative was to get lazy. It is gratifying that the government will also introduce a requirement of competence in the municipal health and care services law. It does not hold any more heads, it must also be competent heads and hands. The quality of healthcare needs to be based more on knowledge, research and innovation and on what promotes quality of life. Finally, all good forces must be deployed, we must have a modernized and effective health system. The private actors too must be welcomed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1594	It has been a long time since Johan Sverdrup has been quoted as often as in this persuasion debate. Parliamentaryism has been given more attention than is usual. It has often been referred to the very famous words «all power in this room», and several could even say – especially yesterday – that it has now become so again. Then it is appropriate to point out that parliamentaryism has been operating in the Grand Duchy since 1884. All power has been in this hall for the last eight years. At least that applies to the elected power at national level, in order to be precise. And this has been democratic. Like a lot of governments before it, the red-green government had the majority of representatives behind it, that is. 86 deposit representatives. And for all eight years, the government had to have the three big groups behind it in every single case. This means, in contrast to what one might get the impression, that policies were developed in cooperation between the government and the three large-scale groups all the time. This did not happen in any vacuum. Hearings and all the thousands of meetings where these representatives met different interests affected policy, albeit in a different way than before. Group meetings and major fraction meetings were important venues. Parliamentarism can function with majority and minority governments. It can work with one-party governments and multi-party governments. The crucial thing is that the government, before voting goes into the main hall, must have a majority in the hall behind it. That in some cases it will lead to compromises on its own points of view is a recognizable situation that we will see more examples of in the coming years. So it's obvious that what's going to be the final decision on the rise is now going to be far more unpredictable than under the previous government. Now we get back a similar situation that we know well from the Bondevik governments, the Stoltenberg I government and the Brundtland government, namely that there is a solution through a shifting majority of parties outside the government. It provides room for negotiations with several parties in several cases and opens up more political horse trade. But it will also give more unclear responsibilities in the sense that it is possible for a government to claim that the political decision is not the primary point of view, but that the majority of the Stortinget insisted on such a solution. What the parliamentary situation will do with the Nydalen agreement remains to be seen. Such a ‘contract parliamentarism’ is something new, but what we can establish is that it is as parliamentary as all other political formations, including all the majority governments we have seen since the famous words were spoken in 1884.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1607	The Declaration of Accession of Prime Minister Erna Solberg underlined that the generational perspective should form the basis for policy formulation and implementation. It's hugely important. We're going to build the country and do it from a long-term perspective, and our generation is going to deliver it in better condition than it was when we took over. This perspective is crucial for us to choose the right solutions today and for the future. The Right Party government will invest more of the great values that have come to our society to build Norway for the future. We need to make better use of this unique opportunity to create lasting values for future generations by investing in knowledge, infrastructure, environmental technologies and increased competitiveness of jobs in continental industries. When I meet people and businesses around the country, I get clear feedback from everyone I meet: now you have to get the infrastructure in this country! Now I'm not the one who believes that everything that's done is completely hopeless. It's done very well, but it's going too late. Therefore, it is necessary both to bet more and to think new. We need to establish new ways of organising infrastructure. It may be a project company, OPS or a separate road carrier, as we have proposed in the Sunvolden platform. The goal must be to plan and build road and track faster than we do today. Another important measure is to start work on obtaining the maintenance seat suspension. We can't continue with a strategy where the maintenance run on the road and the track gets bigger every year that goes. The red-green government has not been able to stop the increase in the maintenance seat run. Although we fully implement the national transport plan, it will continue several years before the expiry date comes to an end and ends. We can't have it that way. Taking the generation perspective seriously suggests that we need to take a force for maintenance of road and track. Good collective solutions and intercity connectivity are essential for meeting urban traffic challenges. In other parts of the country, it is important to build stronger housing and labour market regions by reducing travel time and building holiday-free E39. All projects are important and crucial for future competitiveness. Therefore, we also need to organise ourselves so that we do not set up such important projects against each other, but abilities to carry out all the main projects. We can't afford to let the transport sector become an arena for a struggle between city and country or between road and track. The election results gave the bourgeois parties a historic opportunity to continue with Norway. The cooperation agreement and the Sundvolden platform have provided us with a good foundation for implementing a common civil policy for a better Norway. I am looking forward to four years with a government with executive power and a great deal of room for an active political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1624	Over the period considered, the previous government showed its clear ambition for increased food production, improved income situation in agriculture and development, renewal and competitiveness in the forest sector. Agriculture and forestry with the related industries are essential for the inland economy. In Hedmark, for example, these industries provide a basis for 14 000 jobs. This presents both domestic challenges and opportunities — challenges because we know that these jobs are exposed, opportunities because we know that we will still need food and energy in the future. So the soil and the forest have the solutions. Together with the efforts made in recent years in travel and experience industries, cultural industries and infrastructure development, to name a few, land and forest investment — for example, through the agricultural sector for 2013 and the package of measures for forestry — has provided the basis for new domestic optimism and confidence in the future. And I hope that a bet on the interior will continue with a new government. There is reason to express some concern about exactly this when we see what representations the domestic states have — or perhaps rather do not have — in the new government. But I am pleased that the cooperation agreement between the four civil parties promises to continue the agricultural contract institute. That is good, and it is important, but agreements must be filled with content, and it is expected from the inland that the agricultural settlement for 2014 will follow up the good settlement for 2013. Earlier this fall, the previous government launched a new inland selection. There is a sample to describe and assess business-related conditions in the domestic economy, identify needs and framework conditions, and propose measures to strengthen industrial development, profitable jobs and value creation in the region. I hope most strongly that the new government will follow up this work, that it will let the sample complete its work, and that it will take seriously the proposals of this wide-ranging selection. Inland populations are among the countries most familiar with the challenge of bipartiteness in the Norwegian economy, and countering this trend is crucial for this part of the country. From the interior, there is a great expectation that the government will follow up the work that has been done, and this is, in my opinion, a matter that the government needs to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1635	Several speakers have said in this debate that policy has generated growth throughout the country in the last eight years. It's a truth with modifications. In my home country, Nord-Trøndelag, there are two exceptions to stagnation or decline in the population of all municipalities, with the challenges it creates for local economy and service production. Local communities and individuals also experience that national ambitions, government leadership, protection and tying have increasingly restricted the practice of nutrition, life-exploitation and creativity, and that both ownership, local government and public administration have been reduced under the red-greens — such as alcohol and alcohol. in the case of the prey agreement. There was no compliance with the decision to increase the size of the store. Where it was decided in the Storting that there would be more local administration and a reduced level of conflict, the government did not have the power to implement it. What individuals, businesses, entrepreneurs and local politicians want is greater scope for action to create growth and development based on local assumptions, knowledge and competences — in short, to be able to make use of the opportunities. This is what we get with the policy of the new government – a better school where more students succeed, a journey promise for faster linking the parts of the country, a simpler everyday life, with less forms for business, fewer strange prohibitions and injunctions, freedom of choice and interaction between public, private and non-profit actors. And above all, the government will reduce the state's access to review local decisions, because it's not that the state always knows best. Our new government will show trust to individuals and communities, from the foreman state to the trust society. The new division of tasks and responsibilities in the departments is, in my view, a piece of chess – bringing together the areas that are important to ensure the effectiveness of the government in order to succeed in one of its most important projects, i.e. a reform of the division of tasks between the state and the municipality, the spread of power and increased local autonomy. If there is something that meets with joy, it is precisely a policy that opens up to shift more power and responsibility and power to make decisions, closer to those that are affected by the decisions. It is already clear that the authority to enforce rules on motor travel in outland is added to the local authorities, that the measuring instrument INON is repealed. Such decisions are a symbol of a new era, a change of regime that provides a basis for renewed optimism throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1648	Prime Minister Erna Solberg and Minister of Labour Robert Eriksson have said that they want a serious and good working life for everyone. I allow myself to doubt that, when the first point under the chapter on working life is about the opposite – attacking acquired rights. Erna Solberg follows his Swedish example, Fredrik Reinfeldt, who from the day one has worked to weaken the trade union movement and attack employees' rights. As Reinfeldt, the Right Party and the Advance Party are conscious of the use of words. Softening the Working Environment Act means, in reality, more use of inconvenient working hours, longer working days with less overtime paid, and less protection of jobs with increased use of temporary employment. Temporary employment is nothing new. 197 000 workers have a temporary job. We don't need any more, rather less. As a temporary employee, you do not receive a loan for housing. You live in an uncertain situation and are more vulnerable to exploitation. Studies show that there are several accidents at workplaces with extensive use of temporary employment. It really says itself, it's about competence or lack of it. When Solberg and Eriksson claim that temporary employment gives jobs to more people, that is not true. In countries where this has been the case, for example, for a long time. Germany, Spain, Italy, unemployment is high and employment is low. In Norway, under the red-green regime, we have created 370,000 new jobs, two-thirds of them in the private sector. Unemployment is low, and employment is high, and we have done so without using temporary employment to a greater extent. Solberg and Eriksson say they will continue the work of the red-green government against social dumping and strengthening the Labour Inspectorate. It may appear to be a positive surprise, as both the Right and the Advance Party have voted against important measures in the action plans of the Stoltenberg Government against social dumping. If we look behind those fancy words, reality is different. Two key elements of our action plans were the transparency of local trust-chosen and collective reporting of offences, which the blue-blue voted against. Individual workers are too weak when they stand alone against an unprofessional employer. The labour inspectorate may never have enough capacity to carry out the tight checks on each job that schooled local trustees can exercise. Many employees’ rights may be at risk of loss before 2017. We in the Workers' Party promise that we will do what we can to oppose a dark blue working life policy, but we can't do it alone, unfortunately. But we can always appeal to the social conscience of the Christian People's Party and the Left, even though they have, unfortunately, been part of this gallery.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1663	A good society is built on strong communities. The immediate communities are the most important building blocks. We're talking about the family, the neighborhood, the community, the school or the workplace. Every municipality and every community is built up by such communities, but also in the communities, every four years thousands of people are elected. The rapporteur or the mayor is seen as a kind of trustee for those who live in the municipalities. And the citizens have expectations that the local government or the city council will use local knowledge, expertise and their own common sense to rule well. But there's something that's creeping out, because how much do we accept that the local populace actually get to decide? We have been given more and more national standards and guidelines in welfare policy, environmental policy, land policy, cultural policy, school policy, etc. – everything for the good. The question is whether the sum of good individual adjustments gives a good overall picture. One would like to boast that there is less earmarking of municipal income, the problem is if the local space for action is nevertheless restricted — if not by earmarking money, then through detailed governance of laws, guidelines, objections and state supervision. This is how sector thinking and the state prevail over local discretion and local priorities — and holistically — based on local knowledge of the challenges. This reduces local elected representatives to some kind of puppet or government-determined policy-makers: local elected representatives are given the opportunity to be punished by their citizens for what the municipality does, while at the same time giving them less and less opportunity to do something about it. A community built in strong communities requires trust, but there is no confidence to restrict local freedom of action. In welfare policy, we need to combine legal rights with the ability to create good solutions locally. In terms of land, housing and industrial policy, municipalities must be more self-determined and less involved by the State. I look forward to the government realizing the trust policy it has outlined in the declaration – more trust in the communities, that we are turning the trend with ever more state-driven overarching. For example, the government proposes that the County should be given limited opportunity to review local discretion, that the objections raised by the State in land matters need to be coordinated and reduced. With more real local autonomy, we will also be able to transfer additional tasks to Norwegian municipalities and local people. Therefore, the Right-Fremskrit Party government will have more robust municipalities. This is why we need to implement a community reform that gives greater freedom to find locally adapted solutions and provides the basis for increased quality of welfare services, housing and industrial policy. I look forward to establishing a broad majority in this Chamber for a municipal reform. Trust policy is about recognising that although power may be concentrated in this room, in fact, both the wit and the ability to find good solutions spread quite evenly across the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1686	It has been interesting to follow this debate, especially with regard to the representatives of the Progress Party. The tone is a little bit more muffled and a little more responsible than what we're used to, with some exceptions. I noticed that yesterday the representative Ulf Leirstein had a hard time with the election results of others, especially his SV. I understand that the Advance Party is pleased to join the government, but the election result is not that much to boast about. They lost 12 seats in this room, and they even try to use their poor election results to apologize for not getting what they promised to the voters, and that many things have been lost. In the last four years, I have had my place in the Transport and Communications Committee. For four years, when dealing with every toll proposition, I've heard a former Bård Hoksrud, now Secretary of State of the Ministry of Transport, yelling from this pulpit that demanding tolls is a highway robbery, and the governments are peeling and robbing the drivers. We have also repeatedly heard that when the Advance Party comes to power, this madness will end. In the election campaign, the mantra has been the same: the Progress Party has guaranteed – regardless of the outcome of the elections – that the bombs should be removed. Now the Hoksrud and the Advance Party sit by the power of the Ministry of Transport, and now the pipe has received a different sound – but given the rhetoric of the Advance Party, it is probably a run, no matter how much the sum is, and who it is as a racer. It's said before, but it can be repeated: it's going well in the country, and there's a lot going on in transportation as well. Under the Stoltenberg Government, the appropriations for road and rail have increased by 90 pst., and in addition, a very ambitious NTP has been adopted. This is what the government is now going to follow up, but not just that: we have heard that it is going to be far beyond the adopted NTP. It applies in all areas: road, rail, shipping, aviation, collective lift, etc. We have heard in the debate that, among other things, Fornebuban, new T-Bahn under Oslo, IC extension and free E39 shall go faster than NTP adds. In Hedmark, we have, among other things, promised to accelerate the further development of E16. The Progress Party has promised that the road between Kongsvinger and Klöfta will be completed in 2017, and the crossing tracks on Kongsvingerbanen will come quickly. I therefore take it for granted that this will come into the budget of the blue-blue government will present in a few days. We have also heard a lot about the large, useless bureaucracy, and in the current year's budget, the Progress Party in the Transport Area proposed cuts in the Coastal Network, the Ministry of Transport, the Air Safety and Telecommunications. I expect this now to be followed up. Now we're going to get more of everything in traffic, it's going to go faster, and it's going to be much cheaper, while cutting the red tape and also reorganizing it. I'm going to say it this way: it's going to be interesting and very exciting to follow this work further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1703	The basis for our common well-being is the creation of value in all parts of our country. The government bases its economic policy on the need to create values before they can be shared. In order for us to have the security of well-being and pensions for the future, economic growth is necessary. The government will focus on a generational perspective of economic policy. We will help to create a robust and diverse business life with good framework conditions, a predictable tax system, better infrastructure, opportunities to employ competent employees and access to capital. This is good news for the country and for the South, where the challenge in business, among other things. competence and infrastructure. The leader of the NODE cluster – 57 member companies in the oil and gas industry in southern Sweden – Anne Grete Ellingsen, says that she is very pleased with the signals the government has given, and is particularly pleased with the wording that one will use clusters as a driving force for innovation. In the South and in my own region Lister we have very good results with cluster cooperation. Innovation, knowledge and technology are necessary areas of activity for meeting tomorrow's competition in a globalised world. Knowledge is essential to strengthen Norwegian competitiveness and build the country for the future. The government's commitment to research and education, growth-promoting tax relief and more and better roads will strengthen the nutrient base, housing and growth power in the South and throughout the country. I am delighted to be involved in implementing this policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1718	It is a special day, not just for the two government parties Progress Party and Right and their supporting parties Left and Christian People's Party, but for the Biggest Party and for the country. We are debating a declaration of government that the Progress Party is a member of the government for the first time. It's the Progress Party proud of, they say here in the debate. But they only got 16 pst. of the people's votes and thus not fully implementing their policies in the government statement, we also hear them say. This means that they do not take responsibility for the content of the declaration. Neither do the supporting parties Left and Christian People's Party, we hear, because they sit on the outside of the government declaration, with a cooperation agreement that means that the government has to go to the Stortinget and negotiate in order to have a majority – first with the Left and Christian People's Party, but there can also be a second majority, it says to read in the cooperation agreement. So whether this government statement is being implemented is already in blue. The Solberg government has raised awareness in some other European countries. The European media have asked questions about how a right-wing populist party such as the Advance Party can become a government in Norway, and points out that there is a right-wing populist party in a Northern European country for the first time. We are not debating this here today. In Norway it has been unheard to call the Progress Party right-wing populistic. If someone does, the Right, Left, and Christian People's Party stands up and defends their cooperation party, and apologizes. It hasn't always been like this. Until a year ago, many thought that the Progress Party is a right-wing populist party, also in the Left, Right and Christian People's Party. In connection with the debate on government participation or not in the Left, the group leader for the Left in Bergen wrote the following in October 2011: ‘Left is a socially liberalised party. [[...]] At least the right is both liberal and bourgeois, and the KrF is undoubtedly social. The party of progress is nothing of this. The claim that Frp is a bourgeois party is not becoming more true because if prominent right-wing people repeat it to the boring. Civil ideology and politics are characterised by tolerance, moderation, sosia1 conscience, formation and respect for individual individuals. On the other hand, the trademark of the Progress Party has always consisted of a populist basic attitude, combined with xenophobia and cultural policy ignorance. A modern social democratic party is thus more bourgeois in its practical policy than the Progress Party is.» This debate took place in both the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left before the formation of government. Now this debate is muted, or perhaps just captivated by eager party leaders in the Left and Christian People's Party, who want power and influence for their party. The question is when the debate comes to the surface again. For it is still in progress – but under the lid.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1746	Now this two-day debate is about to end. I record that the Right Party and the Advance Party have changed from talking Norway down throughout the election campaign to having only six days in government to experience the reality from the other side. Everyone agrees that the situation in kindergartens, schools, elderly care and healthcare has never been better than it is now. This, combined with historically high employment, low unemployment and an equal society, is well the basis for the United Nations to choose Norway as the world’s best country to live year after year. The 9 September election has given us a blue-blue government, where the Right chose to form a minority government with the Advance Party rather than forming a minority government with the Christian People's Party and the Left. After eight years as a member of the Health and Care Committee, I have experienced a journey in healthcare with a focus on quality, specialisation, decentralisation and accessibility. We've gone from being middle in class to being at world level in terms of survival in both cancer treatment, treatment of cardiovascular diseases and stroke treatment. This has happened, among others. by the fact that regional health enterprises, together with all the competent health professionals, have been given a task-sharing between hospitals, which has provided a better specialisation with a high-quality focus. I'm excited about how the blue-blue government will follow up the government's Stoltenberg bet of more than 12 billion. to hospitals in the years to come. Giving children and young people a good start to life is crucial. Kindergarten space for all, good professional quality and where there is a maximum price that everyone can afford is absolutely crucial. For eight years, the Stoltenberg government has given the school a boost in knowledge by building new schools and strengthening the continuing training of teachers. Today, we see the results of this initiative through the fact that Norwegian students score more and more on international tests. We get to hope that the blue-blue government will continue this important work. When the Prime Minister last says today that a massive bet is to bet – yes, what is massive bet? – in continuing education, I expect the hopes of all teachers in Norway to be considerably heightened. Today the Prime Minister stressed that she hopes that everyone will vote for what they are for and that it is not a political game. Yes, I hope that all the representatives of the Right Bigges vote for what they are for – including with regard to the right of reservation. The government parties have said throughout the campaign that they would spend between 25 billion. kr and 100 brd. kr to tax cuts, i.e. 6 B.C.E. kr per year for tax cuts. Blue Monday is in Christianity Monday in the week of fasting. Firms are common in different religions and give time to, among other things. reflection and bot and improvement. But for many, blue Monday is also synonymous with backsliding and shivering. We'll have to wait and see.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1772	Notwithstanding the priorities chosen by the government, the climate challenge is our main task. An important part of the climate solution is energy. The centre party believes that we can and should have increased renewable energy production in the future. Therefore, the efforts of the red-green government to lift renewable energy through electricity certification, increased capacity in concession treatment and focus on research and development of new technologies have been necessary both for business and the environment. There is a broad consensus among all parties about investing in renewable energy, but I feel that this consensus cracks when the realities come for a day. One cannot be for wind power, but against windmills. One can be not for hydropower, but against dams and pipeholes. One can not be for bioenergy but against forest roads and active forestry. And power lines must have one. It creates debate. That debate takes the Central Party, and we'll be on it to increase power generation. It will lead to interference with nature. They must be made as gentle as possible. A prerequisite for this is that the communities that bear the burden of renewable energy production should also have their legitimate share of the value creation that is taking place. It applies to all types of renewable production. Another central question is how we use the energy we produce. It has to replace other forms of energy that come out worse in the climate accounts. The transport sector is one central field. We are in the process of succeeding in terms of the car park. We're about to get a battery-powered ferry on Sognefjord. We're on the right track in the transport sector. I believe it is important in the future to further strengthen Transnova as a State instrument to transform energy use in the transport sector. Energy saving in housing and in business is also crucial. Enova, as an unbureaucratic, effective tool that plays a role in business, needs to be strengthened in the future. Power-intensive industry in Norway is good environmental policy. The red-green government refused to scrape the industrial power regime. Despite strong resistance from the EU to proposals for good Norwegian solutions, it is a good thing to exploit the EEA action space in favour of industry. It is also possible, in the view of the Centre Party, both to supply energy, electricity, to Europe and to ensure reasonable prices for Norwegian industry and households.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1791	I am pleased that the new government in its platform is ready that it wants to continue much of the red-green work started in the justice and emergency area. There appears to be agreement on several issues: large parts of the emergency area, the continuation of the fight against violence in close relations, the fight against trafficking in human beings, and the focus on increasing the settlement capacity by building more prisons. I hope this also means that the new government will continue where the red-greens have fallen, and that it will go further with the announced concept of prison in the Agder County, which is proposed in the budget for 2014. The consensus in several areas is positive for the future inter-political cooperation in the United Kingdom. At the same time, I look with great concern at the proposal of the blue-blue government to open up general arms in the police districts where the police themselves believe it is the best solution. This may be a good solution for the new government, but I think it is a very poor solution to how the police can carry out their social mission, namely to prevent and combat crime. Before I go on, I will mention the following: I am an employee of the police and have 25 years of experience, and this is where I have my daily work. I have extensive experience both operationally and in the field of investigation, and I have previously been ten years in the police exclamation unit, where the special task is to solve armed missions. In addition, on two occasions I received a weapon directly addressed to me in the performance of my service assignment. However, I am opposed to general armaments, and I would like to mention some reasons why general armaments in some police districts concern me. Police analysis places great emphasis on the fact that what the police need is standardised working methods. This means, in practice, that the answer should be the same across the country, which is not the case today in several areas. The government will now go the opposite way — and within such an important area as the issue of arms, where we currently have just standardised working methods. We must have a code that is practised in the same way as if you are in Mandal, in Bergen, in Trondheim or in Kirkenes. I believe that this provides the best security for police personnel and for citizens, as well as for criminals operating across police districts to know what legislation is in force. Nor have the government's proposals been very well received by the police, either by the country's police officers or by the Police Union. Today's weapon instructions were recently changed. Now advanced storage is mandatory. This arrangement works well, at my discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1812	Today, several representatives have produced the Norwegian economy as a bottom-solid. It is a snapshot that can hardly be called a truth with modifications, for the 2013 Perspective Communication just concluded that the social democratic welfare state of Norway is not sustainable in the long term. Although Norwegian employment is high, we are close to the bottom of the OECD as measured by the number of hours worked per person in pre-age employment. In Norway, wages are 60 pst. above — not China, but the OECD average, and Vice-Chancellor Steinar Juel in Nordea says that Norway has never had such a deterioration in competitiveness as in the post-2005 years. Although the Norwegian economy still has a higher growth than the vast majority of countries around us, growth is on the way down to Norway, while it is on the way up in many other countries. Unemployment is increasing — and it has been the last year. This happens at the same time as what was supposed to be a red-green government, has provided for a stronger two-way division of Norwegian economy, where we are more dependent on oil than ever. This is the legacy of the red-green ones. So when Prime Minister Erna Solberg comes here, she says she has great ambitions for the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs. First of all, it means taking back eight years of lost opportunities. Prime Minister Solberg said that the government should realise the knowledge society, strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian jobs and work for a more robust welfare society. Of course, these three are connected. An innovative and competitive business environment requires a school with knowledge as its primary objective and provides opportunities for all. Remember that today's students will work in industries in the future, we may not yet know about – think of the Internet 20 years ago – to solve problems that we do not know about, and the welfare of the future depends entirely on a creative business. But business is not a under-use of the country, and business creates values far beyond monetary. It provides solutions to small and large problems that affect and make everyday life easier for individuals, groups and the community as a whole, whether it is nurses who create a new care business because they think they can provide care in a better or different way than existing offers, or it is innovative Internet companies that facilitate a whole new economy, challenging existing business models, tearing down almost any monopoly in the market, because they are smarter, faster and better for consumers. These are the ones that create Norway at its best. It's obviously healthy that we got a government change now. For those who are so satisfied with the snapshot of the Norwegian economy that someone is trying to draw here, it doesn't deserve to take this country further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1825	First, a small consideration from one after another long debate. It is that I am surprised at how little commitment and how few new ideas are presented by the bourgeois parties from this pulpit. When we won the election in 2005, we were out of energy. It was because we carried in ourselves the dream of a better society with more cohesion and with less differences between people. It might be more difficult to find a similar commitment when you represent a majority that is the first to build up many of the great advances that Norwegian society has made. This is clearly seen in the context of family policy — income upgrading in the SFO, which means more expensive arrangements for most, severe cuts in the paperwork, which means that children get less time with their father, and more use of overtime and temporary jobs, which makes life more difficult for families with young children. Many politicians like to talk about freedom, but what is freedom, and for whom is what you work? The basic position of the Labour Party is that freedom shall not be restricted to a few but shall apply to all. It's been a red thread in all of our history. But whose freedom is it the blue-blue government thinks about when it comes to, for example. more use of temporary posts? Is it the freedom of the worker, or is it the freedom of the employer? In the case of standard health care periods, is it the individual's freedom, or is it the freedom of the State? As regards the right of reservation for permanent doctors, is it the freedom of the woman, or is it the freedom of the doctor? Yes, we sometimes have to limit the freedom of someone in order to secure others. When we do that from the Labour Party, it's about protecting a minority, or the weak party. What the right-hand side is doing is weakening the freedom of the weak party. It is completely incompatible with a social democratic society, but unfortunately quite common right-wing policy. I want to strongly warn against that kind of direction. We will fight, because we don't want a society with less freedom and greater differences between people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1834	The representative Stokkan-Grande is surprised at the lack of civil involvement. Then I can say that I am surprised at how much rhetoric comes from the Workers' Party, and how little policy comes from the opposition, because the Workers' Party has said that they want to be a constructive opposition. I think that is good because we live in a country where we are so lucky that although we disagree often, we often find ourselves together. But we hear that the Workers' Party is not always able to be as constructive all the time. For example, I must be allowed to express my admiration for the representative Giske, who managed, as I experienced it, to be both very constructive and very little constructive at the same time in his post. I knew it was possible to combine the two things – I was just not aware that it was possible to do it in 3 minutes! Of the less constructive things that I experienced at Giske's posts, he felt that the Right Party government is using as an argument that the previous government did not help enough in the presentation of its budget in order for the new government to be able to fulfill its promises. Well, in the Kristin Halvorsen biography «Treatment», there are some very exciting aspects of the budgetary work that the previous government had three weeks to implement in 2005. For those who are not aware of it, it is actually a rather busy and demanding process, and I believe that if you talk about a government's budgetary work as if it were something that happens in a simple hand turn. In the political platform of the government, it is clear that we will now witness a promise that the teachers deserve. Continuing training shall be stepped up and, in the long term, shall be a right and a duty. Continuing training makes sense. Today we saw that we have a former prime minister who might need a little bit of it. As a new representative, I have seen that we have language courses here on Stortinget. The math course for representatives who think that 2.4 times 4 is going to be something other than 9.6 could also make sense. Continuing education is an ambition for the teachers that the previous government never had. In their proposal for a State budget, there is no sign of commitment. Rather, on the contrary, the draft budget states that appropriations should be continued at exactly the same level. I do not doubt the intentions of other parties. Unlike what some opposition representatives believe about us, I am sure that the opposition has the best intentions with its policy. I'm just saying that we're better than them to give priority, and that it's clear on the government platform.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1847	How we organize our hospitals is sub-communicated as an important question of democracy, distribution and value. Today hospitals are run by a business model inspired by private company models, and there are 40 psts. the funding is effort-driven. This has resulted in a market right of the Norwegian health services where politicians have chosen to withdraw in favour of health bureaucrats and corporate governance where none of the members can be cast in elections. The financial reward that exists in the kind of diagnostic-related group that each patient belongs to ensures that patient focus constantly has to compete with the irritant me. The danger that patients who do not pay will be deprived is great. The orderer-executor model is tailor-made for the privatisation and purchase and sale of services, because it makes it easy to price patients. The driving licence model has been successful in establishing a similar market in public health. The health service action established is a counter-reaction to this development, with New Public Management as a driving force in the health sector. They want to take the subject back. The centre party supports these demands and believes that the hospital sector must return to elected government. We will lay down executives, fund the hospitals, give the Stortinget power and decentralize the management of hospitals to 20 local hospital boards where the majority of the members are elected by the county council. The right hand side and the step-by-step side options went to remove the regional businesses. They are now being criticized for not doing what they promise. But I'm not surprised. The right hand side and the progress side need companies to control the health shop they are about to create. Nor do they have any political level to decentralize the power to when the county council is to be laid down. The removal of regional governments, however, has no value but at the same time a reorganization of funding. The introduction of the enterprise model in 2002 had a clear link with, and came precisely as a result of, the introduction of the orderer-executor model and input-driven health care funding. When New Zealand and Scotland reversed the business organisation, they did not start by removing businesses, but they started the conversion by removing the order-executor model and removing input-driven funding in favour of framework funding. Finally, they remove the regional controls. They said a final and uncompromising goodbye to all market thinking and market solutions in the health sector. They reduced the number of people in favour of a democratically controlled health sector within the framework of public administration. Even support functions such as cafe operations and cleaning were taken back to public operation. The Right-Forward Party government is doing the opposite. With the Christian People's Party and the Left on the slip, they will increase effort-driven funding, they will introduce free right of establishment for private individuals, and they will convert into neutral VAT, so that businesses can more easily privatise their services and make the health sector an even larger market. The Right Party and the Progress Party establish in the Government Platform that the production of welfare services differs little from other services. What's so sad is that they're so fundamentally wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1858	I take the floor because Minister of Health Bent Höie had a direct eye-catching response to me in the change of lines earlier today, where he simply failed to answer my question. First, I want to say that it is absolutely excellent that the government will present a national health plan and a national hospital plan. The red-green government also provided information on the national health and care plan. But the health minister cannot believe that a descriptive plan for the country’s hospital is an exhaustive management tool for the hospital sector. The availability and responsibility of each hospital for its own activity is great, but what about the absolutely necessary cooperation between hospitals, the functional allocation and allocation of professional resources and the creation of a common platform for ICT? What about looking at the whole hospital sector as a whole and caring for the dynamics of the sector when demographic changes, changes in the picture of the disease or innovations in medical treatment require this? What kind of level is going to take care of this, right won't say anything about it, except some approaches to insignificant mumbling. It's a little credible. I would like to stress that when we in my long-term part of the country have as good hospital services as we have, it is precisely because we started working early on with cooperation, good functional distribution between hospitals and good housekeeping of professional resources, thanks to the regional level that thought region from the first moment – in a part of the country where more than 95 pst. by all those living in the north are treated. So to my question, which the Minister of Health avoided in a disappointing, superficial way, to say it more parliamentaryly correct than I really want. Freedom of establishment for private commercial hospital drivers, where they should automatically be able to send a bill to the public for patient treatment – without prior agreement on such treatment, as is currently the case – has been a bearer of Right-wing Health Policy, presented in full spring 2011 by Höie and Solberg jointly. The right talk a lot about ‘free treatment choice’, but also uses the concept of ‘free establishment’ in its government platform. What about admitting that this is the policy you want for hospitals? The principle of ‘free establishment’ raises important issues related to whether, with such a policy, we can have political governance with the allocation of resources in the specialist health service, for example: between different patient groups and between regions. The fact that the Minister of Health, in his reply to me today, tried to pretend that freedom of establishment is about the fact that the red-green government has removed a little relevant one-time permit for hospitals, in order to replace this with a much more suitable practice in the form of continuous supervision and control, is simply a poor attempt to focus and conceal own policies. It was quite rhetorical when this came from the representative Bent Höie, but unexpectedly and directly unruly when it comes from the Minister of Health. I expect a more serious approach to this very central issue at the time of its word change in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1869	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1872	I take the floor because I feel that a moralization is being used against sickly reported women, immigrants, and people who are dissatisfaction to so question the sustainability of the welfare state. But the same moralization does not mean anything when we are discussing fiscal policies and whether those who have a lot are going to contribute more. If you are interested in the facts of these matters, I would recommend a publication that has arrived today, called Work and Welfare No. 3–2013, which tells us in black and white that there is not an increase, but a decrease in health-related payments in Norway. Age is increasing – there are many of us who are getting older, but I hope that everyone is happy about that. But if we have to cut, cut out tax credits for us that have more than enough already. Then we have enough for those who are struggling the most, and we don't have to cut as this government plans.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1877	It's approaching the end of a long debate, and it's time to try to sum up what we've got out of it. There have been some interesting clarifications from the government. One is that it is now clear that the government will not base a requirement for a United Nations mandate for Norwegian forces to participate in missions abroad. It's a line shift that we're seriously looking at, and we think that's good reason to debate further in this room. The second is that in the course of the day, the case of referral for doctors to abortion has gone from being a compromise, the Right-Effected in negotiations with the Christian People's Party, to becoming something Right is hearty for today – in the speech to the Minister of Health. I think that is alarming, and I am waiting with excitement for whether there is a view shared by the Right Group as that matter comes back to Stortinget. In conclusion, I would like to link a few comments to some other topics that have been raised over and over again. The majority seem to be very self-satisfied with the fact that the government has unclearly announced that there will be measures beyond the climate agreement, and therefore uses it to attack the opposition, as if there would not be any strengthening of the climate agreement if we had received a still red-green majority. Of course it would. There is nothing to brag about that one has intended to do beyond the climate agreement – that is an absolute obvious matter. The question is what the government intends to do, and it is very unclear. The only signal we have received today is that there is no climate announcement. Then I want to make a little visit to the Christian People's Party. Earlier today, the representative Hans Olav Syversen hesitated over the proposal put forward by SV to protect non-profit actors from competitions in the drug industry. I must say that I am very disappointed with that reaction from the Christian People's Party. The Christian People's Party should know that in the red-green years SV has been a driving force to achieve that kind of policy, implemented it in child protection, and the red-green government has also recommended health companies to do this and protect ideal actors in the care of the russian. Only one region has made it now. This means that the time has come to instruct health regions about this. The Christian People's Party should be very pleased that there may be opportunities to have a majority in this Chamber for such a policy and to limit the competitive position of the Right Party government, which will affect non-profit actors in favour of commercial actors. I hope that is not an example of how the Christian People's Party will deal with the space of action that is now in the Chamber. I hope that there can be a constructive between parties that agree on the matter, and not a need in such cases to defend, first of all, the choice made by the most competitive and most commercial government in Norway has had for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1893	When a person enters a throne debate with a new government, an expected great optimism and enthusiasm should enter the hall. The fact that I and I, who lost the election and have left the government offices, may be a little moley, was perhaps nothing else to expect. But I haven't heard the big thrill of the new government constellation. It's also hard to figure out what the new position really wants. They have toned down a lot of their former tough positions that they went to choose from. I was responsible for housing policy in the red-green government in the last four years and had many and long discussions that led the Financial Supervisory Authority to streamline the capital requirement when purchasing housing. On August 28 it was stated in the Evening Post that the right side would lower the savings requirement for mortgage loans. One clearly fixed it. And that was just one of many phrases and many debates. So, October 8th, one went from being non-slip to being in doubt. And it suggested to me that there's only one of many examples that one has gone from being non-slip to being in doubt. The positive thing I've heard in this room is that the Christian People's Party and the Left are on their own in important matters. They have made it clear in agricultural policy. I hope that they will continue to make it clear in both agriculture policy, rural policy and distribution policy – areas that may appear to be lowered by the new government. In my lines, I have raised the new line that I also see in the security and defence policy to ensure that we have demands for UN mandates in international operations. It's definitely a theme we have to come back to. I look forward to the concrete proposals that are coming. I cannot say that this debate has made it clear what is the objective and the clear policy of the new Right-front Party government. Then there are suggestions on the table for reconciliation. The centre party will support SV’s proposal for a globalisation message during the spring of 2014 to strengthen the climate agreement. We will not vote in favour of other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1908	When you have a very important tool, and you have a policy that you claim is very important, it is natural to expect that you use this tool to promote the policies you stand for. The state pension fund abroad is the world's largest fund of its kind. It is reasonable to expect Norway to reach an opinion at some point on the overall impact of the fund in relation to policies that Norway argues and stands for internationally. This also applies to climate and sustainability policies, where changing governments are very clear that Norway wants to be an international driver of climate-friendly and climate-responsible policies. On several occasions, however, the Red-Green Government concluded that the State pension fund abroad is not a climate policy instrument, and the comment of the representative Navarsete just now on two proposals presented by the Green Party suggests that there is an existing position. But the claim that the state pension fund abroad is not a climate policy instrument is a completely meaningless claim, to invest 4 700 billion. kr in the global financial market, including, to a large extent, coal, oil, tar sands, etc., obviously have both a climate impact and a good deal of other effects. There is little doubt that the climate account of the State pension fund abroad is bad from a global warming point of view. Therefore, it is a challenge for the new bourgeois government constellation to decide whether to think about the use of the State pension fund abroad, and therefore, the Greens have presented two proposals that can start this development. And we stress that both of these proposals can be implemented without challenging the performance of the pension fund, rather they will in the long run strengthen it, and without challenging the governance rules and procedures for this. The first proposal therefore concerns the granting of a mandate to the State pension fund abroad in 2014 to invest up to 5 pst. the market value of the fund in renewable energy infrastructure. The second proposal is to withdraw from coal and tar sands activities. We know that these proposals are coming a little fast on the Stortinget, but the Green Party did come a little fast on the Stortinget. We are going to incorporate the procedures first, but the issues are not urgent for Stortinget, so we are asking for and hoping that the Chamber will show the will for rethinking and thus vote for our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1921	Today's and yesterday's debate on the census and the government statement confirm very strongly the impression we have had in the days after the election, that the government parties are now adjusting both their goals and their ambitions. Before the election, we got the impression that there would be major changes quickly. The election campaign promised large increases in expenditure for many good purposes. At the same time, large cuts were promised in the revenue of the state through extensive tax cuts. Now in most of these areas it is much more unclear, much more vague and much less ambitious. We see it, for example. in yesterday's and today's debate on the tax cuts promised: 25 to 100 billion. kr i lower tax. This was said for a long time before the election, but now it is very uncertain what to do with the promises given before the election regarding lower taxes. We also see it very clearly on transportation, especially with regard to the government party Progress Party, which has had as its main purpose for many, many years to remove the bombs. So now they're in government, and they're going to be responsible not just for not removing bombs, but being a party that builds new bombs in Norway, and in many projects there's going to be a lot more income through bombs. We also see that in relation to the equity requirement of the banks. Both parties were very clear about reducing the equity requirement for housing purchases. Now you've reduced it to change the practice of a rule you were against. It shall be practised in a flexible manner. It's been clear all along; it's today's practice. Then you can say that I am basically happy that you are now more responsible, both in terms of how to ensure stability in the banking and housing markets, and also in terms of financing roads. The problem is that there are many voters who have believed in these promises, both the young people who have believed in the promises to reduce the equity requirement and the drivers who have believed in the promise to remove the booms. So although it's good that reality also adjusts the Right and Advance Party significantly down, it's a disadvantage that many have voted on the parties because they thought that they meant serious when they made promises of reduced equity requirements for housing purchases or promises to remove the booms. It's serious. This also applies to the full expectation of the State budget. You talk like you don't have any freedom of action. Well, alternative government budgets have been presented every harvest where tens of billions have been moved, and if these changes are serious, you have to be able to repeat them. I warn against repeating them, because there is a lot of irresponsible in it, but it just shows that you have promised a lot you won't keep. As far as the proposals are concerned, I would like to say in general that many of them have intentions we can agree on, but we believe consistently that there is a need for a more thorough and better procedure than what we are able to do over the table here in the Chamber. With regard to the proposal for a big message, I have seen the Prime Minister there coming a big message about climate policy, and provided it can be confirmed, we do not see any reason to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1942	I think it is a bit interesting that the representative Stoltenberg has now become an ombudsman on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party voters and spends a lot of time telling me how disappointed they should possibly be. I am sure that the Right Party and the Advance Party themselves will receive disappointments if there is a need to tell about it. The representative Lysbakken was disappointed with our reaction to the SV's proposal for a representative in terms of agreements in the field of drug care. Shaky and disappointed – I don't quite understand that. It must actually be allowed to point out that you have been in government for eight years and have not got more than you've done in this particular area that you've at least said for so many years that you want to do something. The beacon said we in the Christian People's Party should be happy, because now it might be a majority for this. This is a pretty interesting information. So we have had votes in this Chamber, where the then parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, Helga Pedersen, asked for the Christian People's Party's proposal to the government to work on it. So I see on Lysbakken that there really wasn't a majority in the government for a new policy towards the non-profit sector, but I can promise Lysbakken that we will seriously go into the work also with the representative proposal submitted by SV. The representative Navarsete was within what she perceived were the great lines of this debate, and she pointed out that the Christian People's Party and the Left have acted as independent parties. That's a perfectly correct observation. At the same time, we are satisfied with the way the government and government parties have met the Stortinget. We look forward to good cooperation. But I've also noticed that there's a difference between what was the red-green constellation. One result after another from SV and the Workers' Party in terms of doctors' reservation access has been met in a completely different way from the Center Party, and we are delighted to note that. As far as the proposals presented are concerned, there is a lot of work in the cooperation agreement, so we do not see the need to vote in favour of them. With regard to the State pension fund, I am delighted to have a further debate with both the Green Party and others when we receive the annual report for the pension fund. Then we can go through the completely relevant issues raised by the representative Hansson.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1955	Let me use the opportunity to both correct something I said wrong earlier, and thus also confirm what the representative Jens Stoltenberg said, namely that we will come up with a matter of strengthening the climate agreement with Stortinget. I was injured because in a reply change we would not be able to handle a message during this big time period, it would be in this big session – for which there is a proposal. I don't think I can promise that we can deliver a case in the first year, not least in view of the fact that, despite the fact that the Stortinget was promised a case in the last period, before 2010, it didn't get it until 2012 – with that reason from the previous government that it is important to have good plans in each sector in order to get to the different measures. But we have an ambition to take action on the road and not wait until that time. Then I would also like to say that in our platform basis we have said that we should make an assessment of our own mandate for investments in renewable energy production within the State pension fund abroad. So one point here, at least from the government -- for Rasmus Hansson -- we want to make an assessment of. Then I want to say that I have been sitting for a long time and listening to this debate. We've heard a lot of future-optimism, a lot of joy over the knowledge society, a lot of joy that we're going to invest in infrastructure in the future. I have heard a lot of optimism from four parties in this Chamber about new cooperations related to how the Storting should work, and about politics. I think I have listened to a slightly different debate than the red-green politicians, who have said from here that they have not realized that it is expectation or interest. On the other hand, I have experienced some confessions that I hope the representatives who came with them, for example. The representative, Mr Kolberg, will see that the world is actually such that it is step-by-step reforms that we stand for. Yeah, we've always done that. That's actually how we're concerned about cooperation, we're concerned that there are less differences. But we're a little bit more concerned with helping the poor rather than being so dedicated to punishing the rich in our society. Yes, in fact, the arguments that Martin Kolberg used a lot of his intervention to talk about, and the society he talked about was probably the most rhetorical of the Workers' Party about the Advance Party, the Right Party and the bourgeois parties, not what we had said or meant in the future. But I'm glad that Martin Kolberg has now got our eyes up because we're parties that are engaged in taking social responsibility. We are concerned with the social development of our society. We are concerned that the weakest will get better, and we are concerned that we should have good conditions on the labour market and build on the tripartite cooperation, which the Right has done for many years and believes is important, but not exclusive. It is important that democracy also limits the extent to which the parties outside democracy and directly elected democracy make their priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1968	One of the things that made me speak was the intervention of the representative of Navarsete that she missed the great commitment and enthusiasm of the new government platform. Then we have been present in two different places, because then Navarsete could not have been present in this room. Because I've heard posts after posts, just by people thinking about the future, thinking about changes within the tax regime, within knowledge, within being able to create something new – yes, who are just thinking ahead with new reforms, instead of taking a break, which in many ways got the impression that the red-greens were inside in their last four years, before they had to go off. Yes, the enthusiasm is great, and I really look forward to the work that we're going to do in this room in the years to come. It is important that we be able to create the widest possible majority on the major reforms, so that the reforms can stand. This government has, of course, done the same thing. One has stretched out a hand and said that we want a cooperation – we want a broad cooperation. Through the cooperation platform, a very good agreement has been reached with the Christian People's Party and the Left, an agreement on which it must be built. In addition, you have also stretched out your hands and invested in the big things. Among other things, within a community reform, it is important to be able to move forward and get the widest possible settlement. But what has obviously been a little bit difficult is that those who have come back from the previous government have had some problems getting involved in actually having to meet in this room and start talking about real politics. It's clear that now we have eight years behind us where they've only been able to come in this room and present a document. They had clarified everything in advance, and the debate was lacking in many ways here, except for the opposition. Now it is actually in this Chamber that we are going to discuss these documents. It's actually in this house we have to find these majorityes, find these arenas that are now becoming so important, in order to get a majority in the matters that the government is promoting. Yes, many of us have quoted Johan Sverdrup from 1872, in connection with the term "all power in this room". Yes, it's going to be amazingly interesting, I have to admit it – after being an opposition politician for eight years in this house, and you almost knew that everything you came to suggest, no matter how good the suggestions were, was turned into the ground by the red-green majority. Now the possibility is here, you've got an invitation, and I'm really looking forward to the next few years in this house. Now there's also going to be changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1977	I have largely been sitting in the hall now for two days and heard a number of violent and enthusiastic posts. I think it's great. There are so many new representatives who have been up here for the first time, and this promises good for the debate climate we are going to have in the future in Stortingen. So this spider from the previous government parties that we're a little bit such a sad crowd that is now a little worried that we're going to go into the government offices and rule the country, one can just go away. Here's the commitment, here's the glow, here's a lot of people going to work hard to shape a trust policy that puts the individual, the family, the volunteer and others in the center. There are many people here who would work to get support for a policy that raises the generational perspective and puts the social security network at the centre, and we'll seal the holes so that those sitting at the bottom of the table get better in this society. Here's the commitment, here's the glow, and here's a lot of new suggestions. Some of the criticisms of the former government parties are a bit difficult to capture, because I heard someone who was very concerned that now the welfare community would almost be razed. But then I hear Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg – I have to get rid of this, the Prime Minister is sitting there, it's Erna Solberg – former Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg saying that the voters of the Right Party and the Progress Party almost feel bad because we don't have the most far-reaching proposals in the government platform, because we don't fulfill all the promises from day one, and because we've put ourselves on balanced solutions and take social responsibility. I think the opposition has to decide: either we've got a responsible government with a constructive opposition in the form of the Left and Christian People's Party, or then we've got a right-wing government that will tear down the welfare community, as Martin Kolberg almost implied in his post. The reality is that we have a government that is now dealing with the problems of glow and enthusiasm, and that of course needs to spend a few weeks on getting started and delivering things to the Stortinget, but that has put a platform in place that at least we who are in position now are happy to take on. The right will vote against the four proposals submitted. There are many good intentions in them. The Prime Minister has explained the background that we now do not want to vote in favour of the proposals. But we'll be happy to accept good suggestions later.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1988	I would like to make a few comments on behalf of the Left on the proposals that have been submitted. On the left, we fully agree that it is important to look at the State pension fund abroad to see whether one here should extend the investment programme against climate-friendly investments. That's something we've been busy for a long time. We also believe it is important to consider whether to increase the risk of making investments towards poor countries – not because they are aid, but precisely because they can provide a higher return. It will also be an important measure to combat poverty and to achieve a good development policy. State pension funds abroad are now of such a size that it is clear that this is an instrument that, by its device, is an instrument that Norway can use. But it also has economic consequences what we do with this device and how we use the State pension fund abroad, and we believe that it requires a much more thorough discussion and debate than through a chronology debate in the Stortinget. I believe that this should also, of course, be done within a thorough committee procedure. I would also like to say that I am pleased with the Prime Minister's comment that the government will take a closer look at these issues. It's also part of the government statement. The left will not vote in favour of the proposals now in place. With regard to a communication from the government to the Storting on strengthening climate reconciliation, we believe that strengthening climate reconciliation has its muscle and power in the cooperation agreement concluded between the Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Right Party and the Advance Party. We are well pleased with the progress made by the government in this respect and will, of course, come back to concrete proposals in relation to the budget and also in cooperation with the cooperation parties Left, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e1999	The reason why we promoted the proposal that we should make sure to submit a message to show how we had intended to strengthen the climate agreement was precisely that we know that half of the government – let's say in another way: one of two parties in government – was not involved in the climate agreement itself, nor was it initially bound by the climate agreement itself at the time it was concluded. That is why I took up with the Minister of Transport the two areas where we know that climate change emissions are highest in Norway, namely on the transport side and on the oil and energy side – which are the two major emissions. Both of these departments are run by FrPs who will not automatically feel bound by the climate agreement. I just picked up the point in the climate agreement that is about traffic in and around the big cities. The climate agreement states: ‘The majority have noted that the projections for population developments in the future show that by 2030 the population of the country’s largest metropolitan area will increase by 30–40 per cent. The majority emphasises that the growth of passenger transport that this population growth entails must be taken with public transport, bicycles and corridors, and that in and around metropolitan areas collective and cycling measures must be given greater priority in the allocation of transport appropriations.’» This is crucial. Does the Minister for Transport feel bound by this binding wording that was concluded between all the parties on the Stortinget, minus the Progress Party? His answer, when I asked the question yesterday, was 'wool'. What is important for this government is to ensure that we get more transport of both people and goods to as environmentally friendly solutions as possible. This doesn't necessarily mean that you have to rely on a concrete solution or a concrete year, as you've had a little too many problems with the past. That is why I again ask the Prime Minister: can the Prime Minister guarantee that the Right, the Government and the Advance Party feel committed to all the formulations of the climate agreement, including those relating to transport? Priority transport, and the success of the growth of passenger traffic in and around metropolitan areas, on a collective, multicultural and bicycle basis, means that the climate agreement must give priority to allocations to these areas: collective and multicultural and cycling in metropolitan areas. I would warn the Prime Minister not to give a reply as unsavory as the Minister for Transport. In this case, it will signal that one does not feel obliged by all parts of the climate agreement, which I believe are essential for us to succeed in the ambitious policy that is absolutely necessary to stop the dangerous climate change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e2017	The representative Harald T. Nesvik followed up with what we have now heard from many of the representatives of the Right Party and the Progressive Party: a tribute to the new situation in Stortinget. I'd like to join it, because it's very fun for us who are in opposition that it's a minority government. But there is reason to recall that this situation has arisen because the Right Party and the Advance Party have been defeated in their attempt to establish a majority government. The shelf now fits a little poorly with what was the goal of the Right Party and the Advance Party before the formation of the government. Enough about that. I took the floor because I wanted to follow up on the representative Syversen. It is tempting to enter into a long debate on the history of voluntary policy. I'm not going to do that, but briefly just reminding that it was our government that made sure that the ideal actors in child protection were protected from competition and got long-term agreements that were part of a community contract with volunteering. I heard Freedom Norway recently was out worrying that the workers of the non-profit sector would be worse off with the new government. I'm afraid that's real. We don't have to have a long debate on that, because I believe the Christian People's Party and SV share objectives in this matter, and the representative Syversen's answer was what I hoped for, namely that the Christian People's Party is also willing to consider good proposals that come from our side in that matter. I look forward to cooperation on that. I am also pleased that the Prime Minister made it clear that there is a big deal about climate. Nevertheless, we maintain our proposal, because we believe that the level of promises has been so high, while the level of concreteity in the government platform is so low that it is important that the Storting pushes for such a message to come as quickly as possible. There is also reason to remind – for the story-writing here – that when it took a long time with the last red-green climate announcement, an important reason was that the international climate agreement we had hoped and thought would be completed was not coming. That's not the situation right now. That's why it's just to wish the government good luck with fast work. So the representative Rasmus Hansson said that the Green Party might have a bit of a rush on the Stortinget. I think I can admit that the Environmental Party of Greens at some point came a little rush on us in SV. But when the Green Party is here now, we are very happy about it. I look forward to good cooperation, and I intend to start it – after the clarifications made by the representative Hansson about his proposals – by voting in favour of the two proposals by the Greens in the vote, of course in addition to voting in favour of the SV proposals themselves or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e2028	Prime Minister Solberg now related his contribution to the speech I made earlier in the debate. I think that's good, because then we can get a more precise debate here in the main hall about the government she's leading, her personal commitment and her ideology. She now said to Stortinget that in my post I had almost come to sense and gathering, and got up my eyes for the social commitment of the right party. I didn't say that. Not because the Storting should misunderstand it so that I believe that the right parties do not have a social commitment. But the Prime Minister will not try to twist my intention in my post, nor can she answer the real challenge. For the real challenge that I presented in my post – and which certainly not everyone heard, but of which I am going to repeat the essence – was that the Prime Minister in the election campaign, and for years, has characterized the Norwegian society as immature, and that Community solutions are in the way of the individual. There are thousands of quotations on those characteristics – not to mention the characteristics of the Progress Party that the organisation of Norwegian society makes us immature, brings us back and stands in the way of dynamism. So I said it's now a completely different tone, and that's exactly what it's been in this debate from the Prime Minister personally and from the representatives of the Right and the Advance Party. So I said, what's that expression for? Is it an expression that they have changed analysis, or is it an expression that they are now running a rhetoric, but are they going to take everything step by step? I think the last thing, and I repeat it. I think it's a strategy to develop the Norwegian society into a market-driven and liberal society in such a way that we get a completely different development. If the Prime Minister disagrees with that, she can of course come up here again and say it's not true, and then it will really be a fact that the Right has left its analysis of society's development and premise. But she doesn't, she's trying to add words to me other than those I have. The last thing I want to say is that she now had a formulation that meant that we were most concerned with punishing the rich. I want to challenge the Prime Minister for that very statement. What does that even mean? Does this mean that she now indicates – once again – that she is to protect the rich and that she is to meet what several Right-wing representatives in this room have said in many debates in late evening hours: that it is not so very dangerous if there are some differences between people in Norway? There goes the decisive difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e2040	It was the representative of the Syversen's statement about the non-profit organizations that made me take the floor here now. I understand that he believes that the former government has had no interest in the non-profit organisations when they provide services to the health and social field. Then there is reason to remind the representative Syversen that the government has actually set up a public body to go into and look at simplifications in the legislation. We have now put forward a proposal to ensure that individual users who need services are not offered, and not least we have concluded a cooperation agreement with the non-profit organisations where we agree to focus on quality. I hope that the new government will follow that agreement, because it also assumes that we will extend the tenders, that there will be more tenders for longer periods of time, and that larger parts of the tenders will be reserved to non-profit organisations. What the representative of Syversen should be concerned about are the signals that have been given that there should be full competition with private operators in that area. This will mean that many NPISHs will have a lower offer and less opportunities to participate in and provide services. But in the election campaign there was one thing the non-profit organizations were busy about. It was to cover their pension costs in the same way as the public get, and it promised the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. When I asked the representative Hareide about it yesterday, he confirmed that it had been the topic of the investigations and the contract writing that had been done in Nydalen, but no solution had been found. It's a greeting to the ideal organizations that I think they should notice. So it wasn't important enough to choose to include it in the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e2051	The representative Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e2054	I don't need the minute. I just thought to say that at no moment in this debate was the difference between the right and the left in Norwegian politics more obvious than when the Prime Minister once again mentioned the idea that the most well-informed of us should also tax on ability, like punishing the rich – as if that is what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e2059	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e2062	I am very happy on behalf of the Christian People's Party – and I believe on behalf of the ideal sector – that this important sector has been put so much in focus. Is it effective after seven years of government to set down a selection that – and I remember it – would look at the law on public acquisitions, whether to use the space for action in this law, and whether there was a room for action? That's the sample that the last government put down after seven years. Then I am a little in doubt as to whether it is a power of action that has been expelled. But I'm very pleased with the optimistic sounds of several parties here. I'm glad, and I think that's pleasing to the ideal sector, how too many institutions have been laid down without really being professionally proof that that would happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e2069	I'm going to avoid taking the whole invitation to the great ideological debate that Martin Kolberg offered. I simply believe that it would clear up the patience of this assembly at the end of the three-minute speeches. We're going to get back to that. I just notice that I think we should discuss what quotations you might have on me. Because what I've said, what I've been busy about, is that in many ways, we see that our systems are sometimes so square that they stand in the way of good solutions for individuals. One of my commitments is that those who fall through our safety net are going to get a better policy in the years to come, because our systems haven't been able to capture them as well as we would like them to do. So I'd like to confirm to SV that we're running after the climate agreement, and that means all the parts of this. We have actually said that we should have a stronger commitment to collective solutions in the big cities than the previous government put forward in the national transport plan. We have done this through markings in the election campaign between the four parties that have an agreement related to this, among other things. in the case of aid for the large collective commitments to be made in connection with future investments in rail. So there's no reason to be afraid that it shouldn't be in place – it's in place. Finally, I would like to say, it is fine that there are great expectations for a new government. It's been in activity for six days. I understand that the expectations are that we should have delivered, that we should have had detailed plans in many areas, but I would like to remind the Workers' Party that before the 2005 elections they had a long list of road projects that their alternative to the national transport plan would be realised. One of them is a very important road project in my home district – the road from Os to Fana. I hope we get started in winter – eight years after they actually said that this was important to implement, even in the first four-year period. Things happen on road projects. It doesn't apply to all the tickets, the eyepieces or other things we get over when you start digging and mapping a new road, as any government has done, but I can promise one thing: it's actually going to be more of a road with this government's policy, and it's going to be more of a collective effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e2078	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e2084	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e2092	The President will propose that the address of His Majesty the King be annexed to the 158th anniversary of its opening and notification of the state and governance of Norway. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e2102	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2 by Rasmus Hansson, on behalf of the Green Group in the European Parliament 3 by Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås on behalf of the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party 4 from Torgeir Knag County on behalf of the Socialist Left Party. The President noted that proposal No. 1 by the Greens/Greens/EFA, available in amended version. The proposals have been distributed in the Chamber. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Greens/Greens/EFA. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘During 2014, the government is asked to give the State pension fund abroad a mandate to invest up to 5 pst. the market value of the Fund directly in renewable energy production and distribution infrastructure, with a target of 5 pst. by 2020.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to change the investment strategy of the State pension fund abroad so that the fund withdraws from all coal and tar sands activities and gradually reduces exposure to other fossil energy in the portfolio.’ The Socialist Left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e2140	There is a vote on proposal No. Four, from the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that Statoil’s main functions remain in Norway.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e2157	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, by the Socialist Left Party and the Green Party in the Environment. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for the promotion of a big business message that strengthens the climate agreement during the spring of 2014.’ The central party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e2176	The President will then propose that the Government’s statement held at its meeting on 18 October 2013 be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-23.ana.ud1862e2190	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - It doesn't seem so, and the meeting is cancelled.
