ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e179	The application for sick leave has been submitted by the Group of the Progressive Party to the representatives of Inbjørg Götskesen and Karin S. Woldseth, respectively, from 18 June to 21 June. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hordaland County, Torkil Åmland, there is an application for a waiver to meet in the Stortinget on days 18 and 19 June under the permission of the representative Karin S. Woldseth, for welfare reasons. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For East Agder County: Åshild Bruun-Gundersen For the county of Hordaland: Helge André Njåstad and Torkil Åmland
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e215	Åshild Bruun-Gundersen is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00. At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 1-11 is being debated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e344	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 hours and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 70 minutes, Progress Party 45 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Left 10 minutes and members of the Government 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers of the parties and five lines, with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President argues that the possibility for the rapporteurs to have an unlimited number of posts applies only in relation to the matter for which he is rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e357	For four years, the Transport and Communications Committee has travelled around Norway. We have visited all 19 counties of the country, met hundreds of rapporteurs and met even more representatives of business and business. We have eaten on board ferries in the West – ferries that in a few years are to be replaced by bridges and tunnels that bind the region together. We've been at the bottom of Oslofjord and we've been demonstrating the latest of laser technology to control the traffic flow in the Bjørvika tunnel. We have been to the driving cab on the Fly train and got a taste of what it is like to drive trains at 250 km/h in the Norwegian countryside. In the north, we have seen how climate change can give us a new world map and new transport routes through the northeast. All over the place, we've met a lot of commitment. We have been presented for recordings and demands, frustrations and expectations. We have become familiar with the challenges of transport and the needs both in individual regions and at national level. It is this knowledge that the Committee has used in its work on the government's proposal for a new national transport plan, which has resulted in a 250-page attitude to the Stortinget. I would like to thank the Committee for its very good cooperation. The deadlines have been short, and the work has been intensive, but we have set targets. Although this debate is most likely to focus on what we disagree on, we still agree on the important thing. We all share the same impatience after building the infrastructure in our country – faster, safer, simpler and more efficient. The Government’s proposal for a national transport plan is a historic boost. 508 B.C.E. kr – an increase of 50 pst. – must go to faster and safer infrastructure throughout the country. Once the Committee has traveled around and met representatives from the business community, there are two issues that have been addressed. The first is transportation. That's why I feel that the red-green parties have passed the exam with shine when the NHO writes in its consultation response that the government proposes a higher investment framework than the NHO did, and that the organisation feels this is an important breakthrough for better business relations. The goal of the red-green parties is clear: we are going to bind Norway together. We're going to spend 311 billion. kr for road purposes over the next 10 years. 1280 km of new national road will be opened for traffic, and 780 km will be built as a non-convenient road. We're going to rust up E6 all over the country, from Svinesund in the south to the Churches in the north. This means, among other things: that the most razed section of the entire E6, Nordnesfjellet in Kåfjord municipality in Troms, is finally secured. The Norwegian road network shall be developed in such a way as to provide good standard for longer continuous sections. That is why we also prioritise E18, E10, E16 and E134. We're going to build a ferry-free E39 in 20 years. Since 2005, travel time on this important coastal route has been reduced by 50 minutes. The projects within the plan will lead to a further 1.5 hours reduction in travel time. When the ferry-free E39 is a reality, the journey time will be reduced by more than seven hours. The county councils, which are responsible for large parts of the road network, are also helped to resume the maintenance set-up – with almost 20 billion. kr. The cost of transport for business is reduced to 78 billion. kr. That is why the transport plan is good business policy. Travel time between parts of the country is being cut sharply; it is also a good welfare policy. We want to build a new generation of railway for new generations of travelers. We're going to spend 168 billion. kr on the railway during the ten-year period. Full intercity expansion – an old vision – is finally realized. In 2024 there shall be continuous double tracks to Tønsberg, Fredrikstad and Hamar. The travel time from Oslo to these cities is less than 1 hour for thousands of passengers. Halden, Lillehammer and Skien shall have their double tracks ready by 2030. There is a green light for the Bergensbanen, modernisation and electrification of the Tronderbanen and expansion of the capacity of Ofotbanen. The red-green majority has also clarified in the comments that there is no need for a new KVU for the Ringerix track. The railway works are now required to complete the knowledge base so that we can start construction of the Ringeriksbahn at the earliest possible time in the second period. The big cities will experience a strong population growth in the years to come. That's why we're now giving cities dragons, so that all the growth in passenger traffic can be taken by public transport, corridors and bicycles, in line with the climate agreement. For the first time, a government says that the state must also take a partial responsibility for the investment and operation of public transport in the big cities, and deposit a total of 26 billion. kr to the urban environment agreements. The first ship tunnel in the world becomes a reality with this NTP. City Ship Tunnel will help improve both safety and accessibility for all who travel on the City Sea, and has been an important requirement for people along the coast. In order to move more goods across the sea, the government is giving 3 billion dollars. to develop port infrastructure and short sea shipping. We dance on the decks of ships in joy, was the feedback from the maritime environments after the Prime Minister had presented the news. We're using almost 15 billion today. kr more in the year on the road and track than when we took over in 2005. However, increased frameworks impose increased requirements, so red-green batches are concerned that resources should be used as efficiently as possible and that we should have a modern sector. Today too much is being built in jerks and beaks. The planning time shall be halved, inter alia: through increased use of State plan, better coordination of State authorities' input and coordinated processing of KVU/KS1. We will ensure more predictable funding and implementation, where the main projects have their own organisations, own decision-making with total commitments and annual appropriations and completion dates. This has also been very well received by the business community. The NHO believes, inter alia, that: new schemes show that the government has once again responded to business needs. But it is not natural that this transport plan should be as solid as it is. When the red-green parties took over the government offices in 2005 after the Bondevik II government, we also assumed responsibility for a transport policy that had been underfunded and not given priority. The first thing we did was we did all the projects and overfulfill the plans that had been adopted. There were no governments that had done before us. The second was to raise the level of ambition. National transport plan 2010–2019 is approximately 100 billion. kr greater than the transport plan of the Bondevik II Government. Now we're adding another 150 billion. kr on top. The third thing we've also done in these eight years is finally to use resources on maintenance. This has led to results: more than nine out of ten trains are on the way, and we have asphalted more than one third of the highways since 2010. The red-green government has implemented a shift in its policy on transport. We've increased the traffic budget by 64 pst. The Bondevik II government increased it by 10 pst. We have doubled the allocation to the railway and tripled the investment. Nearly 1000 km of motorway is open or under construction. We've built the fraction of what's of the non-conference road in Norway. And perhaps the most joyous result: the number of fatalities and injuries has been reduced by 30 pst, to the lowest since 1950, despite the fact that traffic has doubled. Last year 148 people were killed, and for the first time since statistics were started, one state was left at the end of the year without killing anyone in traffic, Finnmark. We're going to do it again. Just as we have fulfilled the two transport plans for which we have been responsible, so, year by year, project for project, we will also implement this plan. We're going to take Norway further. On the other hand, what the opposition agrees on in the policy on transport is more unclear. The right is for tolls, for the rule of action, for climate settlement and for OPS. The progress party is against tolls, against the rule of action, against climate change settlement and against OPS as financing form. The progress party will spend more than 400 billion dollars. kr more than the right and the other opposition lots. ‘It’s going to trick people into thinking that we’re going to end up near the sums proposed by the Progress Party.’ This was said by Committee Chairman Knut Arild Hareide to the Newspaper last week. And he went on to say, ‘Believing in that kind of sum is like believing in Christmas.’ And let me add: it's a party that really has experience with miracles. Right-wing transport policy spokesman Trond Helleland said to NTB that the disagreement between the Progress Party and the other opposition parties was a gordish knot and that it was difficult to see how the opposition parties were going to be able to find a common multiple. To be honest, it must be possible to expect a clarification of what kind of transport policy we will have with a blue-blue government. The extent of the opposition's transport policy, and its funding, are completely blue. One example clearly shows the gravity of the situation: the government's proposal contains a total of 174 road projects. 92 projects shall be financed without tolls and 82 toll projects — at the request of local politicians. Of the 82 projects to be co-financed with tolls, 25 are under construction. Then we are left with 56 new major road projects, where the Right and Advance Party are fully involved in a collision course on funding – important road projects across the country, such as the E6 Manglerud project, the E39 Rogfast and the Helgelands package on E6. The right does not include government appropriations in its option that can replace the toll share in these projects. The Progress Party has in no way suggested that they are ready to compromise on tolls. Would the Right and the Advance Party agree on the financing of these road projects, if they were to be in government? Will these 56 major road projects be carried out with a government made up of the Right Party and the Advance Party? NTP work has not provided any clarifications. The lot also disagrees on the use of OPS, public-private cooperation. In the VG we could read earlier in our reading that the representative Hoksrud slaughtered the Right OPS policy, because there is an expensive way to build a road. Today's Business is one of many newspapers that have concluded that the Right is using OPS as a magic agent and that the consequence is to push the bill in front of and over to the next generation. But when the representative of Greece was confronted with this by the class struggle, he answered the following: ‘It is appropriate to produce OPS projects as if the future taxpayer were to be billed or that they would bind future governments in such a way that other projects would not be affected. It is primarily the car list that will get the bill, in the form of tolls”. I started by saying that there are two factors business has been concerned about when we traveled around with the transport committee. The first is transportation – which has been delivered by the government. The other is safe economic governance. Therefore, the Workers' Party is not willing to break the rules of action and push costs in the sector into the wind, which would be the result of the Progress Party's policy. Therefore, the Workers' Party is not willing to use the Right Wizard as OPS. I fully agree with what was written in the evening post manager last week: ‘The level of transport must be prioritised within the framework of the rules of action for the use of oil money.’ As a form of funding, OPS is at best a tempting but risky experiment. This can easily lead to high capital costs being passed on to future generations, and governments will be tied up, because we are unable to prioritise among the many good purposes of policy. In the short term, of course, it's provocative – the ghost that can come later, it's not. The road here has been long. A lot of people are involved, and there's a lot of commitment. When I look up at the gallery, it's nice to see that people have decorated themselves on occasion of this day, because it's a party day. Today, projects that are important, many of which are involved, many of them behind, are being adopted throughout the country, which will make great differences for both business and population. With the NTP proposal, the government indicates that we are now moving on to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e433	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e436	It was great to hear the brilliance of all the money you grant from this government, but it doesn't just help to give money, you actually have to look at the results. And the result is that we're going to be knocked into the boots of our neighboring country Sweden, which doesn't have an oil fund of over 4,000 billion. kr. They built six times as much highway last year as we did. They built almost 150 kilometers more middle than what we did in Norway last year. And then you're standing on your chest over being so good. There are nearly 800 new bureaucrats employed in the State Road Administration in the last two years. However, the result is that Norway is shattered together, despite the fact that other countries spend less money than Norway. We also lend low-interest money to Germany to build motorways and other roads with Norwegian oil money – instead of spending some of this money in Norway. Then I have to ask the representative: why can't we use any of the money that we lend away to other countries to build infrastructure in Norway instead, for the benefit of the citizens of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e443	That's exactly what the government intends to do in the next ten years. We're going to use a half-budget over 500 billion. kr – on transportation for the next 10 years. Norway is now the Nordic country that spends the most money. A few days ago, the Swedish Transport Agency presented proposals for a national transport plan in Sweden, a proposal that was met with strong criticism, because it is a transport plan that will only continue the chaos that now exists within the Swedish ‘railway’, and that does not address the challenges you face, among other things. in the case of public transport. So I don't think Sweden is a country you should look at. The Swedish government has, among other things: planned to double the road charge for the railway, which will have quite dramatic consequences for the transfer of goods from road to rail. I think that the representative Hoksrud should also take this debate with the parties on the civil side with which he intends to cooperate, because there are no parties that intend to spend much more money than the government has planned. It's more than 400 billion. kr between the Party of Progress and the other lots in the opposition. It should be a much bigger challenge for Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e452	You have to listen carefully to self-scrupulousness, because everything is usually not exactly true. Of the number of employees in the State Road Service, 40 have Pst. have arrived in the last six years – in the Railway Station 1000 employees. Seven out of ten projects are delayed. And still the government is very satisfied, despite the fact that after eight years – but not yet – it will make planning processes more efficient. It will provide a more committed funding – but not yet. The question to the representative of the Bjørnflaten will be whether she sees that it may be a good idea to take away from the opposition, if not the need to streamline the state agencies is the most required, and that it should have been done within eight years. What you can read is that most things have to happen – but not yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e461	I would argue that it is not the position that has an ideological relationship with e.g. OPS but oppositions. The opposition, represented by the Right, refuses to see that OPS aspects are highly critical. We see that there are aspects of OPS that it is good to build on in order to be able to see, among other things. investment and operation as a whole. Therefore, this is something we should try out in connection with new forms of contract — while the Right refuses to listen to its party colleagues in England and in Sweden who have taken a great deal of distance from OPS and who say that this is something on which we should not build. because it has such a big impact on the economy. It builds up the economy, it gives less flexibility, and it's an expensive way of building a road. I record that more and more people also in Norway see that the Right is trying to use OPS as a magic agent, something like that. Both today's business and the evening post have concluded in leadership.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e468	The representative addresses problems concerning the OPS and the ideological discussion. Prime Minister Stoltenberg has also done so in the past from this pulpit: ‘If Norway starts to finance road projects, we have arranged very foolishly. Our problem is not that we have too little money. [[...]] We don't have to buy roads on payment, we can give them cash." My question is: there are now tolls – something in which the Christian People's Party is completely united – up to $96 billion. kr in this road plan. Both the State and the State finance the roadwork. Hasn't the Prime Minister himself understood what he is into?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e478	If there's someone I really believe in in having an overview of the Norwegian economy and the consequences for it, it's the Prime Minister. I think he also has quite an insight into how the mechanisms work in the transport sector. I fully agree with the Prime Minister. We don't want to use OPS because we think it's an expensive way to finance roads. It pushes the bill over the next few generations, and it binds up the government budgets. What I would worry about if I was the representative of Hareide – he and I had the same view on the use of tolls, that there is something we should use if the locals want it – is that there is a disagreement between the Progress Party on the one hand and the Right and the Christian People's Party on the other hand about 56 toll projects in the NTP that have not been realised. We have not yet received an answer as to whether they will be realised with a government made up of the bourgeois parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e487	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e491	Today, we are considering proposals for a national transport plan, a document that will affect what the infrastructure for road, rail, public transport, maritime transport and aviation will look like in 2023. When I hear all the cheers from rapporteurs and red-green politicians, I dare remind you that, despite the fact that the government has delivered in crowns according to the action plan for the first four years, there are still a number of projects that have been delayed. This is due, inter alia, to: That there's no money. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that the national transport plan should be an obligatory plan, where the money follows the plan and does not depend on the annual government budgets. There is something, among other things: Denmark follows. The Progress Party is pleased to make its own proposal for the National Transport Plan for the period 2014-2023. As the last time we presented our proposal for a national transport plan, we also want to raise our eyes this time beyond the first decade. So we have a plan that shows how much we want to spend from New Year to 2043. The progress party will use the possibilities and build the country. The action room is now here. The big question is whether you want to see it – and not least want to use it. The party of progress will build the country, while the others here in the hall will build trees – or perhaps even more precisely: The government invites you to party and string cutting. The drivers are not allowed to participate in any of the parts, but they get the bill for both the party, expensive collection and high interest rates. This is the responsibility of the drivers, obviously all the other parties, except the Advance Party. This means over $97 billion. kr in revenue from tolls over the next 10 years. There is no doubt that the words "All roads lead to Rome" are correct – in a rewritten version: all roads lead to bombs. This vocabulary will have a new meaning in the next ten years: everyone who has a car can expect an extra bill – at the top of fuel taxes, CO2 taxes, one-off taxes, annual taxes, etc. – more than NOK 35000 in tolls over the next 10 years. Unfortunately, the majority in this room calls this a spice layer. I think it is an incredible and very bad spice layer – given that the drivers have already paid in approx. 55 B.C.E. kr in annual fees. I wonder why Norwegian drivers each year find themselves being robbed in this way. Unlike the Ministry of Finance and the Government, the Progress Party considers it essential to distinguish between investment and current operating expenditure. 1 kr used for investment in the road and railway are not the same as 1 kr spent on operating costs that come back every single year. The Progress Party believes that investment in a real main road network will bring great benefits back to society. It also has calculations from, among other things, Cambridge Systematics. They have documented that 1 kroner spent on the road will give you 3 dollars and 49 cents back. Then the yield of the oil fund is not 3 pst. on average over the last ten years a lot to set up with. This fully indicates that it is both possible and sensible to invest in and invest in infrastructure. The big question is whether you want to do something about the situation we have around the country – with queues, corks and chaos in the big cities. Roads in the districts are falling apart. They're dangerous to traffic and they're at risk of race. There are cows on the buses, the trains, the trams and the subways. The Progress Party has both the will and the power to take this into account. That is why we are proposing a real increase in the framework, far beyond the proposals of the government. We're proposing to spend 45.5 billion. kr more a year than the government does in its proposal. In fact, this is in line with what the SSB – Statistical Central Bureau – says in a 2013 report that it is fully possible and justifiable to use it to invest in the future every year. This will not be the majority in this Chamber, and now I ask you who believe this is irresponsible use of money, to listen carefully after: the SSB says that this will have very little significance in terms of both inflation and interest rates, which have been the mantra and scare propaganda of some economists, the Ministry of Finance and red-green politicians. You have been revealed by both the SSB report and reports from, among others. Oslo Economics, Cambridge Systematics, etc., which demonstrates that spending money on infrastructure is both very sensible and correct and will help build the country, not just to meet today's needs, but not least tomorrow's needs. In the major cities and urban areas, the Progress Party proposes to establish a major urban package for the four largest cities of 13 billion. kr in addition to the government's framework. Action will be taken to strengthen the collective provision for both bus and train, to increase the availability of walking and cycling while at the same time ensuring increased regularity and better offers that make people choose the collective offer instead of the car. In addition to this, we propose a city package for the next 13 major urban areas, which is part of today's reward scheme. We want to improve the offer without imposing restrictive measures, such as a rush-time charge, fewer parking spaces, etc., which others have wanted to demand in return to strengthen the collective offer. In addition to this, we want to strengthen collective provision also in the rest of the country, and so we set of another 1 billion. kr of the year to strengthen the collective offer throughout the country. The taxi industry is also an important part of the collective offer, and we want to ensure that it still has to be a good taxi offer in the future. The Progress Party is very concerned with road safety and believes that one of the most important things we can do is to strengthen the work done to prevent the accidents, to strengthen safe traffic and other organisations working against children and people at risk and to be overrepresented in accident statistics. One of the measures that really help to reduce traffic accidents, and in particular the seriousness of the accident, is the centre stage. It's a four-field highway with the middle parts. The Progress Party therefore wants to increase its efforts in this area and set a total of 1 billion. kr of the year to strengthen road safety work and to initiate measures to reduce accidents, inter alia. as I said by setting up several middle parts and building more new, non-meeting roads. It is also important to bear in mind that the maturity of our road network is actually up to a staggering 80-100 billion. kr now, if you include both county and county roads. So much maturity also means that there is a great danger of accidents just by running on this road network. The Progress Party has therefore proposed that the decay on the national roads be resumed in 10 years, while we need 15 years to recover the decay on the county road network. This is very important to ensure that we succeed in reducing the number of people who are seriously injured or killed in traffic over the next ten years. In the case of rail and road, the Party of Advancement is once again heading ahead and showing the way. We will therefore immediately show that we want to establish two state companies on the road and rail respectively, which are responsible for the massive expansion of both the road and rail areas. Companies shall be provided with State-owned equity, which shall ensure that they have the means to enable them to make a much faster, more efficient, cheaper and better use of both the road and rail networks in Norway. The task of the companies is to ensure continuous and comprehensive development – not as in Westfold, where 32 years have been spent on expanding approximately. Eight miles away, with planning and rounding here and there. It shows how slowly the methods used are, and therefore new methods have to be used to make it more efficient and more rational. Therefore, the Progress Party is also committed to establishing the two companies in order to advance their development. The aim of the Progress Party is to ensure that full intercity development up to Halden, Lillehammer and Skien must be completed by 2025. With the Oslo Tunnel and the extension to Ringerijk on the road side E39 from Kristiansand raised up and forward as such, with its own project organisation to plan the entire project in order to ensure continuous development, the Progress Party has an ambition that it is possible to do this in 15 years. It's ambitious, but business has shown many times that it's important with completion dates, not start-up dates. If you do, you can do it, but without it taking a long, long time – as we have seen in many infrastructure projects. The company should also contribute to the faster and more comprehensive development of both E18, E16, E134, E8 and very many other sections around the country, as mentioned in our proposal for a national transport plan. We suggest that the two companies in the next ten years have a total of 157 billion. kr to start up this massive road and rail development. We also propose that these companies be financed by parts of the oil fund and separated into a separate fund to finance these major commitments in the field of transport. We are very pleased that we have brought both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, who agree with the Advance Party that this is a good way to build infrastructure. In the field of maritime transport, we propose a strengthening of 5 billion. kr extra over the next 10 years. Among other things, we put off 1 billion. In addition to the government's framework to the City Tunnel, because it was not possible for the government to find room to fully finance for the next ten years, and then the Advance Party must go ahead and show that it is fully possible. We're willing to spend the money to put into place City Ship Tunnel once and for all, after 18 investigations it's well, and many, many years of discussion both in this hall and elsewhere. At the same time, we also propose that funds be set aside for fishing ports, depth improvements, maritime marking and the strengthening of traffic centres, but not least we want to use funds to strengthen oil protection. We've seen it tested several times in the last few years, both Full City and Godafoss have shown us that. Now, when I'm about to land in my first post, it's important for the Progress Party that you also get the country discussion around a third runway at the Gardermoen and where you think it's going to be, and if you're going to build it, so that the municipality can look at the possibilities for further development of the area around the airport in the future. Everything I've taken up now, of course, costs money, but a number of reports, all of which in this room should be well known, show that building infrastructure brings great benefits back to society, business and not least to the individual citizen of our country. The Progress Party's proposal for a national transport plan is a plan that will ensure security and freedom and demonstrates clear action. I would therefore like to address all the proposals that the Progress Party has made on the matter and those to which we are associated, with the exception of our proposal in the vote on document 8:113 S, where we have another case rapporteur who will explain the matter. Then I would like to say to the representative of the Bjørnfacen, who says 508 billion. kr is half a state budget: yes, it sounds violent, but it's 5 pst. over a ten-year period. Or put in a different perspective: if we continue to increase the expenditure on the government budget in the same way that we've done in the last ten years, in the next ten years, the difference is that we're going to spend 13 500 billion. NOK over the state budget for expenditure, of which we will spend 508 billion. kr. It's not very ambitious anyway, when you put it in perspective, over a decade. I realize that it sounds a lot when you say 508 billion. kr, and that's half a state budget, but that's 5 pst. If you look at what we intend to spend on the state budget over the next 10 years. Finally, the Progress Party uses the opportunities and builds the country!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e536	The President saw it as the representative intended to address all the 66 proposals that emerge from the various matters we now have to deal with. The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e541	In the online newspaper on 4 June this year we could read an interview with the representative Hoksrud, where he guaranteed that it would be toll-free throughout the country if he became Minister of Transport in a government that also included the Progress Party. I want to ask the representative if he can still guarantee that with him and the Advance Party in any blue-blue government, it will be toll-free throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e546	I think it is very nice that the representative Bjørnflaten follows closely what the representatives say. The starting point of the Progress Party is that we're against tolls, and we're working to eliminate tolls, and we're convinced that we're going to be able to convince both the Right and the Christian People's Party that it's stupid to waste almost 40 pst. of the drivers who pay tolls, collection costs and interest charges. That's our job to take care of. With a good mandate from the voters on 9 September, I am convinced that we will have a majority for that. But I think it's sad that we have a government that, despite having an oil fund of over 4,000 billion. NOK, it seems good to skin the car lists in many places with both 10 and 15 kroner. I have seen examples of some traders paying NOK 100 000 in tolls this year. That's something that matters to the wallet for people most and ordinary people. And I see that there is a growing commitment around the country to tolls and to this blackmail that the red-green government is doing in terms of tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e553	When we belong to the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen, it may seem that both the climate gas problem and the rule of action are something the Progress Party takes into account. But that's before one has heard the representative, Bård Hoksrud. For when one has listened to Hoksrud, a Progress Party puts a solid place on the Tribune when it comes to the Government Cabal. That's my claim. So one is going to cut toll companies, one is going to cut bombs, and hundreds of billions are going out in a way – 450 like that. And so one shouldn't consider any of the issues that I understood about the Progress Party, when I heard the representative Solvik-Olsen. The progress batch has gone for the mandatory piece on the cars, so that they can drive in tolls. So my question is, does that mean that someone now wants to be in government and driven by highway robbery?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e562	I can promise the representative of Langeland that the Progress Party will not engage in road robbery, as Langeland may be in the front line to do, because he thinks it is perfectly right that the drivers should be flogged. But I want to challenge the representative Langeland back. He's busy with the railway, and I wonder how the representative Langeland can sit in a red-green government that now cuts the development of full intercity, which was a goal and a promise from SV to be finished before 2023, while you now have an ambition of perhaps 2030. It must be a shame for Langeland to sit in such a government when he's been one of the leading figures in order to accelerate full intercity expansion. But the reality is that SV is in a government that is not busy building up the railways. It's the Progress Party. That's why we want to expand the full intercity by 2025.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e569	It is up to you not to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e574	As we have heard earlier today and seen through a number of newspaper headlines, there is a big gap between the Progress Party and the Right in financing the transport sector. Right-wing transport policy spokesman Trond Helleland has even characterized it as solving a gordian knot. There is disagreement about tolls, OPS and rules of action. Can the representative Hoksrud then guarantee that it is the Progress Party that is winning out of the fight with the others on the bourgeois side, or will the Progress Party surrender, as we felt when you were a support party for the Bondevik II government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e581	I am very pleased that it is the voters who, on 9 September, are going to make sure to put together the Storting and what the big crowd is going to look like. But at least I've recorded that neither the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party or the Left have needed to stand on the Lion's Hill and demonstrate, so to enter in to vote for what they have stood on the Lion's Hill and demonstrated against. So I am convinced that we need to find good solutions, and at least all four of the bourgeois parties agree, is that we want a more offensive attitude to society. We agree that organisational action must be taken, financial action must be taken. We agree that we should take parts of the oil fund, separate it out and use parts of the returns to invest in infrastructure. So I'm convinced that people are going to experience a massive investment in infrastructure development. Then we're going to convince the other parties that it should be done without skinning the drivers and without much of the money disappearing without getting a single meter away.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e586	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e589	First, I would like to remind you that Alexander the Great loosed or destroyed the Georgian knot. And the legend said that whoever destroyed the Georgian knot was to be mastered over Asia. Then we'll see if whoever solves the Georgian knot in Norway's transport policy becomes master or queen of Norway. We hope so after the election. The welfare society of the future depends on the priorities that are being set today. Infrastructure is an important instrument for ensuring growth and well-being for future generations. Right have new ideas and better solutions for how to get home quickly and safely. On the one hand, the transport challenges in Norway are about appropriations and, on the other, an increasingly urgent need for modernisation and new solutions. We have a sector that is over-modernized and more efficient. The planning time for new projects should be halved through several different actions. Comprehensive planning of longer distances, better estimates of the real value of the transport projects for society as a whole and less policy detailing will help to improve the efficiency of the transport sector and improve the quality of decisions. New funding and development models will help to speed up the construction and maintenance of road and rail sections. Major expansions should be organised as own public-owned entities with independent performance responsibilities. Such organisation of the Oslo-Ski project would make it possible to reduce the implementation time of the project by 40 pst. Such an organisation could be a proper solution for several major road and rail projects such as: The Ringerix Path, as it now again seems to be a great will to realize. The competitive outsourcing of the Gjøvik Railway has resulted in lower costs for the public, a better offer for travellers, more travellers and equally good conditions for employees. More competition on the rail track will contribute to more satisfied travellers, more passengers and more efficient operation. The right has high ambitions for the transport sector and will take on new ideas and better solutions to speed up development. Right proposes to increase investment funds for road and rail by 35 billion. Compared with the government's proposal, we want some of this to be covered by efficiency measures within our own framework. I see that today the Minister of Transport has found out that there have been too many bureaucrats in Vegvesen, and that she will start a job immediately. Maybe it's a little late after it's increased by 40 pst. And after it's been eight years. On the right, new forms of organisation and funding will be used in road and rail construction where desired locally, preferably in cooperation with private individuals. Our vision is that no one will die in traffic as a result of poor road standards on the highways. That is why we want to build more motorways and more mid pulleys. We're going to set up a 50-billion-dollar infrastructure fund. kr to start work on recovering the maintenance drivage on road and rail, which unfortunately is too large. A more powerful collective development is needed to ensure the environment and flexibility of traffic flows in metropolitan areas. It is predicted that there will be one million new residents in Norway over the next 15 years. Most of this growth will be around the big cities, and then a force bet is absolutely necessary — for example. a Ringerix track and e.g. development of railways – to meet this challenge in both housing and traffic. I'm glad to say that in the opposition we stand together on a series of proposals to achieve these objectives. During the examination of the previous NTP, the four opposition parties joined forces on 14 proposals. This time we pass around 30 joint proposals, many of which are important structural, efficiency and modernisation proposals, for example. proposals to transform both the Railway Agency and the State Road Service into State companies. The most important thing is that it is built – not who does the job. It is the responsibility of the state to ensure that the population has a good network of roads, railways, quays and airports. But it's not necessarily that the state itself should do the job. There are many ways to organise infrastructure. In some contexts, it makes sense for the state to do the job itself; in others, external actors are better suited. Today, the Stortinget is involved at the level of detail in all new developments, costing and delaying the projects. It is not because we spend a long time in proceedings here in Stortinget – we have probably spent a week or two on most of the issues that the government came with long after Easter – but because it should be planned. It shall pass through the ministry, the roadway, etc. It is costing and delaying projects. There is no reason why the Storting should adopt improvements to smaller road and rail projects. For example, as far as I know, investment must be down to 50 million. kr in the Railway Station within the Storting for decision. We need to prioritize between different variants of maintenance, or treat racial protection of the main road network. The size should adopt national plans with objectives, frameworks, actions and funding, while professionals should be responsible for the details and implementation. The red-green government seems to have prioritised bureaucracy. Compared to our neighbouring countries, Norway now has twice as many traffic bureaucrats compared to the population. For example, since 2009, the State Road Administration has employed more than 1000 people. We heard last week that the Railway Agency has received 1000 new ones in eight years, all in administrative positions. The road service spent 2.4 billion. kr on the purchase of consultants only in 2012. It is important, of course, that there are plenty of staff with the right skills so that the Road Administration and the Railway Agency can keep good progress and the necessary control of investment and operation. At the same time, we see that the number of road bureaucrats in Norway is highest in the Nordic region, even if we look at the number of employees in clean numbers, or by the number of kilometres of road. In fact, in Sweden, road bureaucrats manage more than twice as many kilometres of roads per employee than their Norwegian counterparts. This shows that there are considerable opportunities for efficiency in road and rail management. While in Norway there are about 14,000 traffic bureaucrats, the same figures in Denmark and Finland are slightly over 4,000. Right wants to entrust responsibility for entire sections to own project organisations. The size should adopt the broad guidelines with mandatory frameworks for the organisation, completion of each section, costs and funding. Then it should be up to the company itself how they will proceed to solve the order. Experience suggests that projects will be completed more quickly and reasonably than in the ordinary course of development. A study has shown that the extension time of the Oslo-Ski route could be approximately 40 pst. faster, because you have the opportunity to see the project more closely. In the right, it is considered appropriate to organise e.g.: the whole of the intercity development of a separate overall development company. The right also believes that the organisation of the development and operation of own road sections as separate project companies under the Directorate-General for Roads should be tested. Public–private cooperation provides more money, shorter construction time and high quality infrastructure. Therefore, the Right wishes to launch several major OPS projects both on the road and on the railway. Norway has had three public-private cooperation projects, OPS, on the road sector. The experience from these has been very good. Roads have, according to an evaluation by TØI and Dovre International, been completed faster than with traditional implementation. The construction method – and I stress the construction method – public-private cooperation can offer several advantages: half-time, continuous development of long distances, guaranteed development costs, no budget gaps for the state, can be more reasonable than traditional development, construction quality adapted to the overall life of the road or line because the developer himself is responsible for the maintenance for 25 years, if one goes into such a contract, guarantee of proper maintenance as long as the OPS contract runs, and boost innovation in the choice of solutions. A simple detail is that on the OPS route between Klett and Bårdshaug in Tøndelag, the company has replaced the entire lighting with LED lights to save money, but at the same time gave the drivers the same good light. It's innovation. The other speakers on the right will refer to the various modes of transport. I have tried to draw up the main lines of our transport policy in the next few years, where we will use new ideas and better solutions to get home quickly and safely. I refer to the proposals where the Right is the proposer or the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e645	The representative of Trond Helleland has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e650	In the case of the Georgian knot, we intend to keep the Right out of the government offices, so that is not at all certain there will be any problem at all. The representative of Greece said to NTB on 10 June that one of the most difficult things if they were to get in position to negotiate a government platform with the Progress Party is to resolve the disagreement on the financing of roads. That's what was mentioned by Helleland as the Georgian knot. My question to the representative is – actually after hearing the representative Hoksrud earlier today in the debate: Has the Right come closer to solving the Georgian knot?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e657	As I said, a great warrior or a great stateswoman is needed to solve a gordish knot. I am absolutely sure that if it becomes what it looks like now, a clear bourgeois majority, or a non-socialist majority, after the election, this will resolve. But I also admit, and it should just be lacking, that there is a different view of the use of user funding between the four parties. But what the representative of the Bjørnface also said in his statement was that we were so dissenting about OPS. Then I would point to my own post where I said that OPS is a method, not a form of financing. There is a common note between Knut Arild Hareide, Bård Hoksrud and Trond Greece plus the others from our batches about OPS in the setting of the National Transport Plan. It shows that we actually agree on method, and then we have to find the answer to how we solve the Georgian knot with funding. I'm sure that once we win the election and sit down, we'll be fine.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e662	The President finds reason to recall that the Georgian knot was actually cut over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e665	I have pointed that out in my article – by Alexander the Great.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e670	What we also agree on is a fund. In the Advance Party we are pleased that both the Right Party and the Christian People's Party agree with the Advance Party on a fund scheme in which the return is to be used for the purpose of transport. We still disagree with the size. The point is that we have a solid common platform and understanding that funds need to provide additional funding for the development of transport. So it was more about the Georgian knot. Nearly four years ago, 16 June 2009, the representative Øyvind Halleraker from the Right to the Financial Newspaper said that a period of high oil revenues and oil fund returns would be carefully estimated at 100 billion. more annually in 10 years. Cumulatively, this is carefully calculated to give 500 billion. kr more to use and the right will use it for high-speed trains. Is this room for action also in 2013? And how will Right use that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e679	That space of action exists, and that is why I am very pleased that the representative Sortevik and I are together on a proposal where we say that a greater share of the return on the State pension fund abroad will be used for what the Storting actually decided that it should be used for, namely infrastructure. So there is a great deal of room for action to increase the appropriations in the transport sector, because the Storting itself has said that when we get so much petroleum income, we need to invest in the future – either in taxation for business, in research and education, or in infrastructure. If the government of Stoltenberg II had been close to following it, it might have been that both I and the representative of Sortevik had been a little more satisfied with the state of things. But there is a great deal of room for action, and we must use it. I'm sure we'll agree on that, and then we can also discuss the size of our funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e684	Right is on the climate deal. Now a question can be asked as to whether the policy put forward in the NTP is consistent with the climate agreement, but it gets a say in itself. My starting point is the question of a possible partner, who quite clearly takes a distance from the climate agreement in the questions we have addressed about NTP. Is it so that the Right is standing by in spite of the fact that the Progress Party is breaking its intention? The second question is related to what many are concerned about, namely the modern method, OPS, to resolve the investment needs on the railway, but especially on 15 projects on the road. Does the Swedish Minister of Finance, who is from Right's sister party, take a mistake when he says that the method is stupid and expensive? Did he misunderstand?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e693	Our Swedish colleagues are usually not wrong, and therefore they have also ruled the country for a long time. But there are different approaches to how a person wants to organise the transport sector. What we see in Norway is that we have a great need – a great aftertaste in – to get up the number of kilometres being built. OPS is, in our opinion, a very good method. For the climate agreement: It is a pity that SV did its best to prevent the Progress Party from being allowed to participate in the climate agreement. The progress party also made a lot of good suggestions, but SV made it his affair to make sure they could not join us. Then it is a little bad afterwards to accuse the Progress Party of being the party that breaks a climate settlement they were not allowed to join. I have experienced that the Progress Party has changed a lot – I joined the Transport Committee with Langeland a few years ago as well – and I believe that the party has become considerably more positive to both collective action and railway activity than they were a few years ago. So here it goes in the right direction – and with new government going even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e704	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e707	It's nice to see the bandwrecked people in the Storting. When we get in the mood, we're in the mood for a party. One can come from many places in the country, actually – maybe it's from Vik in Sogn, maybe it's from City Ship Tunnel, maybe it's from Ofotbanen in Narvik. There may be a lot of places, because there's a lot to enjoy with the NTP we're providing. Some of what I think we need to get out of this debate is what the Progress Party illustrates with responsibility when it comes to global warming – and warming up the Norwegian economy. Here, the transport fraction of the Advance Party wants to clearly distance itself from the responsible line that the party's next leader, Solvik-Olsen, is trying to present as if the Progress Party has – as a party that is interested in doing something about the climate and is also interested in following the rule of action, which he stated to Today's Business for some time ago. There is no transport fraction available for the Progress Party. They want to sit on the stands and shout and have the right, as one can when sitting on the stands. But if you're going to be down on the track and play the game, you have to be willing to do it. I think the only thing that makes a person say that they're willing to do that is that they're in favour of mandatory bombing. Then, of course, you're adding up to a highway robbery in government. If we were so unfortunate that there would be a blue-blue or a different government than the red-green, I think the voters of the Progress Party should now only realize that once the Progress Party has gone for a bomb, it's not because they thought it was fun to run around with a thing in the front window, but because they're going to use that thing for something, simply to skin the car list – like SV and the red-green ones, according to their own rhetoric. We red-green show through our power of action and implementation that we actually implement the plans adopted by the Stortinget. I've been illustrating that for eight years now. We have implemented this – we adopt a plan and implement it. It hasn't happened before. The second party that has a seat with a national transport plan has not been able to follow him up, but the red-green government has done so. For us, the market doesn't have to control where we invest. The red-green government thinks it's important to invest in both city and country, because we think it's going to live people in all of Norway. But when you look at the comments of the Progress Party and partly the Right, it's obvious that one should be strategic and invest the big money where there are most people. The red-green government actually wants to make sure that there is a settlement across the country. We therefore invest a lot in road maintenance and race protection. For example, road maintenance: very important for people like me, who run motorcycles. If it is bad road maintenance, it can be fatal. So this is a compromise between three parties. That means, as Hoksrud also illustrated in his answer to me, that there are some things in a compromise that one would not necessarily have prioritised if one had 50 pst. by the votes, which SV did not have – but 6.2 pst. – in these negotiations. However, these are also some major projects, such as: The Stordal tunnel and the Haukeli tunnel – which SV sees as environmental tunnels because one escapes to run far down and far up and use mass fuel – where we now give a signal that this can start earlier. So there's a little bit of a good signal connecting to e.g. a road that is often closed, simply the road over the Vika mountain, where we now saw 100 million. kr to start planning. We're going to spend 508 billion on red-green. kr in this NTP. 220 of those billions are for green transport. This means that the profile provided by SV through the negotiations and this compromise is very marked by good bets on, among other things. railway, urban environment and bicycle. Overall, the NTP increases by 55 pst, and the railways, the urban environment and the bike increase by 76 pst. in this NTP in relation to the previous one. There will be reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, which is very central to SV – that we should not invest too much, which will increase greenhouse gas emissions. We know that cities are where the biggest challenges are. This is why there is a commitment to urban environmental agreements, where cities can compete to get money from the state into a more climate-friendly transport policy, where fewer trips by private car and more users of trains, urban railways, bus roads, public transport and bicycles. It's an important breakthrough for us. We're going to need $92 billion. kr on the railway in the next few years. We will build IC in two stages – by 2024 and 2030. There has not been much trouble about it, although SV initially had a different priority; we had this higher up and would have it faster. It was implemented, and that's the most important thing. Then we'll get the Bergensbanen for 5.2 billion. kr. The Ringerix Path has now received a profile that allows it to be planned, and we can get a previous start, perhaps already in 2018. It is an old case for SV that was negotiated at the beginning of the 1990s. While the Labour Party had completed its road tunnel, SV's train tunnel was never realized – but now he's coming. We're very proud of that in SV. And then there's also some sections that we're offensively planning. One is Sandnes-Egersund. We opened on 14 December 2009 double tracks Sandnes–Stavanger, and got a formidable increase in the number of travelers on the train. Now it's time to move on, farther south of the county, down to Egersund, where there's a lot of mountains and lots of possibilities to build dwellings. If we realize a fast train to Egersund, which later goes on to Kristiansand and Oslo, it is clear that it provides the opportunity to protect more food soil for the dining pot on the North Jären. Another thing that we did in the final phase of the NTP negotiations was a genius. the connection between Vestfoldbanen and Südlandsbanen. Of course, we were very pleased to have had the opportunity to plan this figure of genius, which reduces travel time from Rogaland to Oslo by up to an hour. As I said, car queues are growing, and in many areas, one is not willing to take it really seriously. The progress batch does the opposite, because it is clear that when one takes away the tolls – if one gets there – there will be even more traffic and even more traffic. So there's the Progress Party party for more car queues and greater losses for business by standing in line. But in my area, North-Jearen, the spokesperson and politicians have started to talk about what to do about restrictions. What is also important is that SV would like to have both the coast and the trade in one department. Now we have the state councils here, so at least we'll have to talk about the short sea shipping. The grips on the coastal sector are extremely important in getting more transport by sea. All politicians say that they want more transport from road to sea. We've been working on that case, and we've done a lot of work, so the Minister will have some credit for that. But there's a lot more to do right there. Finally, there is one thing I should be critical of when it relates to the NPT we have – and it should be a follow-up to Mao – and it applies to railway financing. The railways are discriminated against. We should get a solution that makes the railway come on the same footing as the others. It's now going to be 17 billion. Mr Gardermoen, without a political decision. When it comes to the railways, you have to go to Sigbjørn Johnsen every year and ask for money.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e744	The President will fully agree with the representative of Langeland that it is nice that people decorate themselves when they go to the Storting. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e749	It is not exactly unexpected that the representative of Langeland is talking about rail and freight, although we all know – and see – that the share of freight is getting lower for every year that goes under this government. In other words, it's very far between word and action. The Progress Party takes seriously in its NTP SSB forecasts for investment in road and track. We both want to establish a state-owned company to build an efficient railway network, and we want to grant more to investment – we have it in our framework – together almost 53 billion. kr more than the current government. We see that today's government, with SV, has postponed the completion of InterCity. And we see that all the other parties on the Stortinget, including the government parties, have now put the lightning train dead. Is the representative of Langeland satisfied with his breakthrough in his own government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e758	Since I have a new jacket today, I thought I was not dressed so badly today. So to the question from the representative Fredriksen. No, the lightning train isn't dead, he's wrong. What is in the national transport plan is not as offensive as SV wants for the lightning train, it is quite right. But it's 250 km/h plus-- that means one can use lightning trains when one builds out IC and other sections. One might, for example: start with the distance from Sandnes to Egersund and then think on. The majority have done so since 2008, because they have thought that when we build out, we should think for more than four years – and one should use the whole country. When it comes to the Progress Party having 53 billion. kr more, that's quite correct. But one sees what the big money in the Progress Party is going to – more greenhouse gas pollution, more driving and more motorways, and it's not on the clock. But I am glad that the representative Fredriksen and the Progress Party – when they get their pieces installed in the glass pane on the car – will run around and drive money into different road projects. That'll be interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e767	Unlike Fredriksen, I think that the representative Langeland was less tall and dark than he used to be in terms of rail. The NHO said in its comment when the National Transport Plan was presented, that a red-green government needed it to kill the freight traffic on the railway. The Folloban – eight years later: still not a spastik, and for the next four years there will be one to two crossing tracks, if the state budgets allow it. So the government is not setting out, but on bureaucrats. The representative of Langeland is thus the inner intercity triangle ‘light’ – because to Fredrikstad the train does not go; it goes to Seut, and it is at the city border. It doesn't go into town, it doesn't go to the station, it doesn't take the big costs. It is well known in Norwegian as ‘fake’. It doesn't go to Tønsberg and to the railway station, it also goes on the outskirts. But you keep the words and you can say Fredrikstad and Tønsberg, but you can't go in. Is it the case that SV has played failed in the government as regards being a railway party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e778	I think we should be very happy that the representative Schou is not in government, but that it is actually SV who is in government. This means that we get the profile of climate-related investments to be made. And I remind you that when the representative Schou himself was in government, it was granted 1.3 billion. SEK 250 million for investments in the railways. kr was intended for IC in the Austland. It would have taken over 500 years to build the IC if Right had been run, with the policy they had. So one should be happy about that. That one is offensive when one comes out of government offices, of course. What I finally pointed out in my post as a weakness at NTP is that one has discriminated against the financing of the railway. Therefore, SV is working to get a different funding for the railway. We want, in principle, 25 billion. kr per year for the railway. Now we've got to 10, fast, and it's a step in the right direction, and for the train's part, it's a revolution compared to when the Right was in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e785	I thought the representative Langeland has found a very suitable attraction to mark the bet that is on the railway today. It's like there's an honest representative we're hearing, and I'm sharing what he says that the railway has a very special financing challenge. Elisabeth Enger, an honest railway manager, says: ‘The level we now have in 2013 is too low and will increase maturity this year’. Then Elisabeth Enger goes on to say: «Then we had to admit that we had asked too little. Then we have some years behind us where we would like to have done more." We know the honest and great commitment of the representative of Langeland in this area – but is the representative satisfied after these eight years, when we see that the decline continues, and that we would have liked to have done more for the railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e802	It depends on who compares to. Compared to the time when the representative Hareide was Minister for the Environment, what SV has done with the train's licenses is close to a revolution. But it's not enough for trains, so I'm totally in agreement with Erling Sether, who says we should invest more in goods, more on maintenance, more on larger investments. But this is a compromise, and I hear what the railway manager says. And given the profile that this NTP has, it's clearly one could have done more. But, as also the representative Hareide has experienced, it is in the responsibility of compromise to take and give. Then one can say that SV wants a lot more to go to the railway – 25 billion. This year, the Swedish Government of the Republic of Sweden has agreed. We're up to 9.2 billion. kr. It is very much in relation to the time when the representative Hareide was Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e809	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e812	The government has presented a solid and forward-looking national transport plan, with 50 pst. increase — an increase of more than 150 billion. This is the third offensive transport plan presented by this government. The previous two were overfilled. It is built or under construction close to 1000 km of new highway with the red-green behind the steering wheel. Safer roads cause fewer people to be severely damaged and killed. We have to go back to 1950 to find a lower number of deaths than today. But we have no one to lose, we're going to continue the road safety work. A lot more trips collectively, and we have to go back many years to find years when more trains were on the road than in 2012. So we're going to spend 508 billion. kr for the next 10 years. Of this, 311 billion is going to go. DKK to go, 168 billion. kr to railway and 19,4 brd. kr to ports and fairways. With the Central Party in government, we've been running to make use of the whole country. It is invested in roads, railways, ports and airports around the country. It is a good regional distribution, large investments in all parts of the country and more coherent development. The connecting corridors are given stronger priority, such as E6, E10, E16, E18, E39 and E134. It is a heavy road effort across the country, but especially around the regions that have a long way to markets and need closer interconnection. We shrink distances, improve road safety and build up under value creation. There is a strong commitment to regional enlargement, which leads to a larger labour market. We have a strong focus on nutrition, and better roads linking regions and the country provide opportunities for increased nutrient development. Business transport costs are reduced by 78 billion. kr during the period. For rural areas, transport costs will be reduced by 47 billion. kr. Over the ten-year period, we will have a doubling of the road free of charge, and with other road safety measures, we will allow the ambition to halve the number of people injured and killed in traffic. The county roads are given an additional lift – almost 20 billion. kr to county roads. We need to build more, smarter and faster, specifically priority projects, predictability from decisions. The planning period shall be reduced, objections must be raised quickly on the table, deadlines set and more use made of the State level. There will be more for the money with more predictable funding. We get more coordination, simpler and more efficient toll collection and efficiency of the floors and Avinor. The railway effort has increased considerably since 2005. This allows both increased passenger traffic and increased volume of goods on the track. With InterCity, the eastern region is given increased opportunities to use trains to and from work. It will ease road pressure, so that the transport of food is made easier. The railway network is also a priority in other parts of the country. The tread and the Meråkerbahn shall be electrified and the Ofotbahn upgraded for increased ore and freight traffic. Conceptual selection studies for electrification of the long freight lines show that it is very important to take these paths into a new and more climate-friendly time. There is a large investment in Bergensbanen and the Ringeriksbanen is approaching with great steps of realization. The railway works shall also establish an unbundling between the South and Westfold Railways. We want increased bets on short sea shipping, more goods are going from road to keel. This will improve road safety, improve the environment and reduce road wear. Only one ship engaged on short sea voyages will be able to save the roads for 200 trailers. The national transport plan prioritises 3 billion. kr to ports and other coastal infrastructure. The centre party is pleased that a freight flow analysis is now being launched. In this way, we can gain knowledge and facts about how freight transport can be made as effective in Norway as possible. We are facing a strong growth in transport, and part of this growth must come to sea. The centre party is also very pleased that City Ship Tunnel is now to be realized. Marine investments should both secure the road at sea and strengthen the growth power of the fishing industry and the farming industry and contribute to increasing the volume of goods on the keel. It must be invested in aviation, both at the major airports and at the small ones. It connects parts of the country and parts of the country. This also helps to strengthen business needs in order to be able to travel quickly in and between parts of the country. For the Central Party, freedom of choice to live is very important. Setting the basis for coastal, inland and in all parts of the country is part of this. Industry, fisheries, aquaculture, food production, tourism, mining and petroleum are all industries located around the country. These industries are important for the economy of Norway as well as creating local jobs. Investment in good and timely transport solutions is therefore an important base investment for continued economic growth and employment. This is a good transport plan for business. The NHO and the LO have defined the government’s transport plan as a historic boost. At the same time, the NHO says that the investment framework is at the top of the action space that the economy can withstand. The green profile of the centre party is about wise management. Therefore, it is important that good food soils are used for food production, and that we reduce the use of soil for expansion purposes. Good roads are good climate policy, and the car is part of environmental policy. It is good that we can see that the opposition on the Stortinget can gather about 30 proposals in the transport policy in connection with the treatment of the national transport plan, which we could read in the trade journal Our Roads last week. But as long as the four parties stand apart for miles in how this is to be financed, Norwegian civilization will be able to get a real break after the elections in the autumn, because in terms of the economic framework, the Right and Christian People's Party will essentially end up with the government. In spite of this, the Progress Party presents an economic framework of 454 billion. kr over the government. The Right and Christian People's Party has clearly rejected this initiative and asked the Advance Party to moderate itself. Transport policy spokesperson in the Right, Trond Helleland, told the News Agency on 10 June that financing the road sector is the most difficult thing to agree with the Progress Party on. He goes on to say that ‘today it is difficult to see how we are going to be able to find a common multiple’ in the negotiations further. The opposition creates uncertainty. What the Right Party and the Advance Party present separately is uninteresting. What's interesting is what they can agree on. Right is for OPS, tolls and action rule. The progress batch is against OPS, tolls and action rule. In the introduction of a new national transport plan, the Right and the Advance Party are making it apparent that they are unable to agree on the financing of the very transport sector. When the Right essentially relies on the same economic framework as the Government, while the Progress Party guarantees that no new projects will be built with tolls, they create uncertainties about the 56 new road projects that depend on partial toll financing. The first 25 billion. The Contracting Party grants to the transport sector shall be responsible for eradicating old tolls. This money could have gone to build a new road. In a new transport plan, we're adding up to $98 billion. kr in tolls. That means that the Progress Party needs to grant 123 billion. kr more to the road than the government before they can build more roads at all. In a new national transport plan, tolls will be around the current level for the next 10 years. On the other hand, government appropriations for road investment will increase sharply. Tolls' total share of road investment will therefore fall sharply over the next 10 years. By all means to finance road and track projects, OPS is the most expensive. The basic feature of OPS funding is that the entire investment is financed by a loan. So you get interest expense on the entire amount. The payment of interest on government appropriations is expensive, and that means that you get less road and track again for each traffic ticket. Buying a car in cash is definitely cheaper than financing the entire purchase. The 17 OPS projects proposed by the Right in its plan will receive an additional interest rate of 37 billion. Compared with the way in which the government finances the projects. Then we're going to assume a grace period of 23 years. A trip around the country shows that yes we build – and we also show in this plan how we will build for the next ten years. Politics is not about promising the most, but about implementing what is promised. The Central Party and the Government have proved this in two transport plans, and we have to do that this time too. We put the whole country into action and create growth and confidence in the future from the south to the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e871	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e874	Listening to the representative, Sjelmo Nordås, you'd think everything was great and fine. But I want to challenge the representative, because when the Council of State presented the National Transport Plan, she admitted that the default on the road network will not decrease in the first few years to come. Then the representative of Sjelmo Nordås says that the plan is good for business. Then I think she should take a phone call to Vrådal Hotel in Telemark, where foreign bus tourists will no longer come, because the roads are so bad that they will not use the bad road network. Foreign tourist agencies recommend that people not drive on the roads in Telemark, because it is such a bad road standard. How can the representative say that this is very good and that business is very satisfied, when you know that the result is that people won't come to the hotels because it's so bad road standard? Should you not then take responsibility for it, make sure to take back this maturity, and not allow the maturity to continue to increase – because that is what is the reality of the red-green government’s proposal for NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e884	There is an increased investment in road maintenance. The focus is on general road maintenance and on greater maintenance, and road maintenance must also be seen together with the investments that we are going to make. There's a lot of investment going on around the country. The main business organisation has been quite clear that it is a good national transport plan, which is also good for business, and it reduces transport costs. So I think we broadly satisfy what business has asked of us in this transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e891	The representative, Sjelmo Nordås, gave a very clear overview of the money used in the NTP. She also said that the whole country was going into service, and she was very pleased that shipping was going to speed up along the coast, and that the flow of goods was going to start. When we look at the consumption of Middle Norway – the representative is probably coming from a little north of the middle of Norway – 5 pst is used. of the funds entered into the NTP, north of this part. Does the representative of Nordås think that this is a proper district policy? And in the case of the running flow analysis: was it necessary to wait eight years for it to start?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e905	It's probably right that I'm from Middle Norway. The nearest town is the Lake of Mosque, which can call itself the city in the middle of Norway, so Mid-Norway is probably mine. There is no doubt that this national transport plan is investing even more in the outlying regions. For my own region and for the part of North Norway, we get an increased share in this national transport plan, and that is very important and right, since we have to invest so much in food development, petroleum activity, travel life and the kind of things that go on. It is also important to provide the necessary clarifications in terms of funding and planning in order to be able to participate. As the representative of Myraune knows, there have been many rematches about tolls, and there have been battles associated with planning processes that have delayed some projects. But now, both the Helgelands package and a number of other projects that are important to our part of the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e912	The Central Party and the Christian People's Party were united in transferring roads to the state. In many ways it has been relatively good, the county has taken on the task of vegetarians with great zeal, and the Road Directorate has been constructive in the context of the new transfer, which was carried out in 2010. But the big challenge is due. There's a decay on these roads between 45 and 75 billion. kr, according to a report. The government says it's 55 billion. kr. So my question, with the big challenges we have on our county roads, why is the Center Party going to remove the interest compensation scheme? Yeah, we've got 10 billion. kr to in the NTP, but one has managed to remove the interest compensation scheme with the maturity we currently have. Isn't it that the maturity will continue to increase with the NTP that is here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e917	The projects within the interest-rate compensation scheme are passed on, so that no one is in there, who is being taken out. In addition, it is better to get the money directly into your hands instead of borrowing to realize things, and that's what the government does when adding extra appropriations to the county roads. Now the centre party would have liked to have seen that this allocation had been even greater, and it is a matter that is important for us to work with in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e922	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e925	I want to start by thanking the case spokesperson, Anne Marit Bjørnfacen, for a very good job in the biggest case we have had in this period, the national transport plan. This is a good starting point for discussing infrastructure investment over the next ten years. My two big but is that I think there is a need for a greater renewal, and I also think there is a need for greater investment than the government has put forward. I still think this is a good starting point to see what will happen to Norwegian commerce for the next ten years – and actually even a little longer than that. When I was little good and went on vacation, I went from Bømlo, where my mother had grown up, to Sunnmare, where my father had grown up. Then we pulled in a car, we were seven in the car – five in the back seat – no safety belt, at least one on the hood, and we took seven ferries to get there. We have a completely different traffic safety perspective today, and for the same distance, there are plans and visions that there are not seven ferries on that stretch between Bømlo and Sunnmøre, but actually no ferries. In this vision perspective, I would say that there is still a greater need both for renewal and for greater investment. So the Christian People’s Party proposes an increase of 27 billion bets. kr into this plan. There are extra rights to the railway by 6 billion. kr during a 10-year period, and we prioritise collective action and maintenance of county roads by 10 billion. kr. Why do we suggest increasing the permissions of the railway? Well, it's like I've quoted a very honest railway manager, Elisabeth Enger, on: ‘The level we now have in 2013 is too low and will increase maturity this year.’ Furthermore, Enger said: «Then we had to admit that we had asked too little. So we have some years behind us now where we would like to have done more." The same Enger said on April 6, 2010 that if we didn't get a significant change, we could have a breakdown. That is why there is a need for significant investments on the railways. It is also the Christian People's Party's main bet. But I'm bringing forward a renewal. Too many important projects are now being built into small pieces at a time. This will increase costs and extend the duration of the project. When a project is adopted, funding must be guaranteed and clarified. One example of this is E18 through Westfold. It has taken 24 years to implement this extension. When we see that it has taken 24 years, we cannot owe only one government, then there are several governments that have to take responsibility for it. Our best experts say: we could save 19 years, we could build it in five years, and we could reduce the cost by 30 pst. What surprises me then is that when the government receives that documentation, the answer is to the government: there is no need for any changes. The same way we organise this sector today, we must also organise it in the future. The same way we build big projects today, we will also build them in the future. I think we need to learn from the failures we've done, and think about something new. Therefore, OPS or other projects are not ideology of the Christian People's Party. No, we like multi-year budgeting, debt financing, public limited liability companies or state enterprises. That seems to us all to be the central element of renewal. The Christian People's Party will provide the same opportunities for civil society as private developers to implement projects effectively, and we will do so by providing a more freer position for the Railway Agency, the State Road Administration and the Coastal Agency. So I think the Christian People's Party must create a 50-billion owned infrastructure fund. kr, where the return on investment is used for road and rail investment, precisely to ensure long-term viability. One of my concerns at the entrance to the National Transport Plan has been the efforts of the major cities. The national transport plan is very good in this area. But then we also know that connecting to cities will always be major challenges. By 2030 there will be two million more trips daily in the nine largest urban areas than it is today. It requires substantial investment. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that the State should take a greater financial responsibility for the development and operation of public transport in the metropolitan areas, among others. new line and superbus solutions. At the same time, we are creating a new budget line with support for urban railways, and we are proposing that 2 billion be allocated. kr to this total during the planning period. The representative Bear Surface referred to the NHO and what NHO had said. It almost seemed as if the NHO was now the new sensor of this government. Then I also have to point out what NHO Logistics and Transport say: they are «deep doubt on the national transport plan to be adopted in the Stortinget and their marginal investment on the railway». It says Enterprise Policy Director Erling Sether. ‘The government has said that they will facilitate the doubling of goods on the track, but we see that it is going in the opposite direction’, says the same Sether. That is why there is a need for substantial investment on the railways. We also see the same challenge on our country roads. It's between 45 and 75 billion. kr, according to documented reports. The government estimates it to be 55 billion. kr. The government has permissions, but the big permissions are not until the end of the period. And so they're removing the interest compensation schemes that have been so good for the counties. What else is important? Yes, more goods at sea. This may include, inter alia: to improve the efficiency of port terminals, improve infrastructure to and from ports and reduce charges and administrative burdens. At the same time, I want to give the government a reward for the short-sea shipping strategy that is being put forward and that it will be working on. Another matter that has been particularly important to the Christian People's Party is the City Tunnel. I am pleased with the clear signals given by the government. I hope we can get started early on the final plan work here, and I would like to start with a start already in the first part of the planning period. The government says they will reduce the planning time. That need has long been seen by the Christian People's Party. Increased use of State regulatory plans, but also the use of other consultants for detailed planning and coordination of actions, are new measures that can contribute to an improvement. There is also a need to develop better traffic forecasts, such as: captures the effects of land use and avoids under-dimensions. Many of the projects we have adopted before have been paid down a long time ago. There is also a need for better cost-benefit calculations, so that we get a more accurate picture of reality. The alternative transport priorities of the Christian People's Party are more in this plan. At InterCity we want a full expansion by 2026, and we ask the government to submit plans for this. We want the new Oslo Tunnel to be realized, and the Vestfold Railway and the Sørlandsbanen must be connected. As several speakers in the past, we are concerned about the Ringeriksbanen, and I am pleased that there is a joint committee here that is impatient. For the E39, there is a 20-year perspective for the government to add, but only Rogfast is within this plan. We also think that projects like Møreaksen and Hordfast should be able to see something to do over the next ten years. The children's transport plan and bike I will close briefly. The Christian People's Party proposes an increase of 7 billion. kr during the planning period, precisely because there is nothing more important in transport than to do something with road safety. That is why we also want a reward scheme for walking and cycling roads and safe school beds of 250 million. kr. I'm addressing the proposals from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e985	The representative Knut Arild Hareide has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e990	The representative Hareide has said a lot wisely in the last four years. He now characterised NTP as a ‘good starting point’ and has previously characterised the government’s budgets for transport as not at all bad. He has made peace to LO and said that the government itself was part of, "was too far in softening the Working Environment Act". The representative has characterized the alternative transport plan of the Progress Party as “believing in the Christmas party” – well and good, but Siv and Erna would like to have! And he says he wants more complete development of transportation projects. To the last one: In the Day Revy on 29 May this year, Hareide said that we can start building the Fornebubanen now. Later he has clarified in social media that we can start at Fornebuland now and build in Oslo in a few years when the regulation is ready there. Does the representative think that such a clumsy expansion he then sketches is a good way to build transport projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e999	That opposition is very much in agreement today, is that we need greater investment in infrastructure in Norway over the next ten years. It's the full deal. Both the Progress Party, the Right, the Left and the Christian People's Party say so. So we also say that we want a greater renewal of the sector. I think it's a good starting point to sit down and look into the sphere ahead. I think we should be able to deliver on both of these parts. Then to the Fornebuban. It's a big paradox that we're discussing what to do in 2013 at Fornebu. We should have done that a long, long time ago. That's why I'm very impatient to get started. We know that Bærum has come very far in his planning work. Therefore, I believe that getting started relatively quickly with the work from Fornebu to Lysaker is very realistic. While we do that, the Municipality of Oslo has to do its planning work, so that we can be ready to move on from Lysaker to Majorstien.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1007	In its proposal for the NTP, the Progress Party has addressed the forecasts of the SSB on the responsible framework for investments in our infrastructure. At the same time, the representative Hareide and the Christian People's Party claim that using the SSB's numbers is like believing in the Christmas party. The Prom believes more in the SSB's prognosis than in the Hareide Christmas talk. The Christian People's Party itself calls for increased investment and uses efficiency money as the largest economic addition in the NTP. A number of projects are being framed, a sandwich list that is very tall and far above what the government is proposing. But the Christian People's Party has not put out five ears to the companies that are going to stand for increased efficiency, so far. In other words, no efficiencies and 10 billion. as monopolistic money. Where's the money Hareide wants to spend? They are not visible in NTP, and non-delivery niches are quickly screened.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1014	I've never spoken about the SSB's numbers. I think the Central Statistical Office is doing a good job of analysis. What I have said, on the other hand, is that we should make a responsible economic priority, I do not believe that the figures presented by the Progress Party are realistic. They're not the same as the SSB's numbers. This is about how we're going to get health within the financial framework we have, and it's also about spending a lot of oil money into our economy. What I think is the challenge, on the other hand, which has also appeared earlier today, is that of the oil money we spend, we don't spend enough on long-term investment. When we adopted the rule of action, we said that the infrastructure was one of the things that we were going to spend on just oil money, but we could also use it on some taxes and, among other things, on some taxes. education and research, which we believe are future investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1021	The representative Hareide spoke warmly about, among other things: urban policy, and a lot of that we can probably agree on. But one thing that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party have come together on a lot of occasions is district policy. We ignore the idea that the Progress Party will more or less liquidate it. I see that district policy is something that can really get a blue Monday if we get a blue-blue government. Can the Christian People’s Party support a policy that does not take care of the whole country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1026	No, of course we can't. That's why one of the big bets we've put up here is on the county roads. Here's the big downfall, there's big challenges, and I don't feel that the bet that the government has set up here is good enough for us. One went out and said one was going to give 10 billion. The national transport plan was submitted before the national transport plan was submitted. No one knew then, that was a distant interest compensation scheme. With the maturity that is on the road, the Christian People's Party believes that there must be significant bets, among other things. on the county roads. If there's a shift, I'm not worried about District Norway when it comes to infrastructure, because there are four parties that want to do more on infrastructure than the sitting government wants. I also think that the renewal we're adding will help us get more money left for the infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1033	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1036	Unfortunately, the left is not in the transport and communication committee this period, but we have, of course, made our own alternative transport plan. The alternative transport plan of the left is based on two foundations. One is the rule of action, which says that a greater share of the return is to be invested in infrastructure and transport. The second is the objective of the climate agreement of reducing Norwegian emissions, and that traffic growth in and around the major cities should be taken with public transport, bicycles or corridors. In my post I will focus on three areas of transport: train, collective and road. The left increases transfers to transport in its transport plan, in order to ensure a modern rail system and future-oriented collective systems. The left proposes to increase the frame by 25 billion. kr during the planning period. Money is important, but that's not all. It's also a political task to get more out of the money and give a better offer to people and businesses. That is why we want to modernise and find new solutions to the planning, organisation and structure of transport. When many projects are developed in stages and in part, costs are also increased. Often it is cheaper to make the necessary investments in a short time, with alternative financing solutions. Therefore, the Left proposes different road and rail project organisations, where there is a need for coordinated development and faster progress. The left limits itself to individual projects in terms of project financing. It is important to be able to pay back the costs in retrospect. Greater investment must be possible in the future as well. We also want to reduce the planning time. Today, the average planning time for transport projects is almost ten years. The left believes that it must be an objective to halve the time spent planning transport projects without jeopardising democratic processes. The train must come in time, go when we need it, and have a travel time that can compete with the car on short distances and planes on longer distances. That is why the Left is proposing the rail lift in the transport plan. Never before has anyone invested so much on the railways in Norway. Let's start with InterCity: a significant population increase is expected in the eastern region towards 2040. Only in Oslo and Akershus are 450 000 new citizens expected. In order to meet the growth of traffic, there is a need for investment in transport. There is not enough free space to expand the road network in cities to accommodate traffic growth. It must be taken by public transport. The development of double tracks in the InterCity area will bring cities in the East closer together and make it easier to commute between them. The travel time will be considerably shorter. For example, it will. take one hour to travel from Oslo to Hamar, Tønsberg or Halden. Modern double tracks to the cities of Westfold, Eastfold and the east side of Mjösa will enlarge the metropolitan region and, in practice, create a continuous tomion city. Without the expansion of InterCity, it will not be possible to deal with demand. Already in a few years there will be more passengers than there is capacity. Trains will be the most appropriate transport option in the future. The government has committed itself only to double tracks to Fredrikstad, Tønsberg and Hamar by 2026. It is not possible to take the opportunities and transport challenges in the East and between Oslo and Trondheim, Oslo and Gothenburg, Oslo and Copenhagen, Oslo and Kristiansand and Oslo and Stavanger seriously. We suggest that InterCity be built from Oslo and all the way to the end stations of the triangle. We will follow the railway station's recommended construction time, so that the triangle is finished in 2025. InterCity development must be the start of a high-speed rail network between major cities and must be built with a minimum speed of 250 km/h. We want to create our own project company and propose state regulation as rice behind the mirror, and we propose a fully funded plan, so that the economy does not delay the project, as we have seen too many times. This gets the selections with the Left and only with the Left. We give priority to other important sections of the train: The Ringeriksbanen, which we want to speed up with funds for planning and start-up already in the first period Gjøvikbanen, who experienced a revitalisation of the Minister for Transport Torild Skogsholm We set funds for double tracks from Stavanger to Egersund. That's how I could still do it: the Eelgarden Railway, increased bet on the Trunder Railway, double tracks to Voss, the Kongswinger Railway and a number of other sections, maintenance and upgrade, and not least a credible plan for the distances between the big cities. The left was the train batch in the previous government, and the left shall be the train batch in the next government. There will be no doubt about it after the treatment of NTP today. In order to be able to travel as much as possible collectively, municipalities, counties and countries need to play on a team, so that new residential areas, shops and workplaces are located close to public nodes and stations. The state and the government must become a co-player in order to solve this, not be a brake pad and in some cases a direct opponent in these issues. There's a lot of population growth in and around the big cities. It requires substantial investment to provide environmentally friendly transport. The left ensures that large infrastructure investments in large cities will receive 50 pst. State contributions. The left will provide economic rewards to cities and counties that achieve their environmental objectives and give them great freedom to use instruments to ensure that the objectives are achieved. We need a position on what we are for: the Fornebuban, the Rogaland urban railway, the Bergen urban railway, the Oslo T-Bahn and an extensive cycling effort. All in all, the Left suggests using 15 billion. kr more than the government on public transport – in addition to the train effort – in the coming years. However, they will receive additional help: the left proposes in its alternative government budget to introduce tax exemptions on an employer-funded monthly card. It will provide additional incentives for more people to make use of environmentally friendly transport to cities. We must have good roads where we don't have trains. The left wants safe and secure roads that bring people home and goods to the market. Particularly important for the Left is the ferry-free E39, the repair of the E10 for increased value creation in Lofoten and the Western Sea, and the restoration of the E6 north of Trondheim. Ferry-free E39 is crucial for increased value creation in growth areas on the west coast. The best possible use of funds and development needs to be facilitated. In the 2010 administrative reform, the counties took over as well as a significant part of the road network in Norway, so that the county municipality is now the largest road owner. A survey carried out by the State Road Administration in consultation with the county councils shows, as many have been involved here today, that they need more money in the counties. Finally, I would like to take up the Left's proposal in the vote and inform you that we will vote in favour of approx. 50 proposals from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party in the position. It'll take too much time to mention everyone, but we'll do that eventually.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1097	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1100	What the individual opposition parties think about financing the transport sector is an exciting exercise to learn. What's more interesting, I guess, is what they might be able to agree on. The transport plan of the left does not help to clarify it either, all the time to read in their plan: ‘Lefts are limited to individual projects in terms of project financing. It is important to be able to pay back the costs in retrospect. Greater investment must also be possible in the future.’ In this way, the transport plan of the Left is not only an alternative to the transport plan of the Government, but also an alternative to those parties which do not relate to a serious economic framework for transport policy. So the left's definition of a serious financial framework is, according to their plan, the five OPS projects that the Left will implement. This is in stark contrast to the Right, listing 17 OPS projects. Then is my question to the representative Tende: can the left say anything more about what they think will be the consequence of the Right Policy with the 17 OPS project?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1112	I am dealing with the Left's policy and the Left's alternative transport plan. It's right – and I'm very happy that the representative has joined my post – that we don't want any more OPS projects in the future. Probably more in the long term, but we're very concerned that we're going to have a responsible economic policy. So it's a lot to go on in terms of modernisation, efficiency and building faster. You can also find out that you are financing larger projects and faster.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1119	I think it is important that the representative of the Left actually reads alternative transport plans, because it is the Progress Party that has the most offensive railway policy of all parties in this Chamber. But I want to challenge the representative, because they talk about bond loans, and they talk about 25 billion. Total kr. This really means that you want to avoid talking about the rule of action and don't want to discuss how much money you should actually spend. The progress party is at least fair and honest and tells us that we're going to spend over 50 billion dollars. kr on the railway in the next 10 years to expand full InterCity by 2025. Can't the Left either be honest and tell them to use what it costs to build out the full InterCity, and that doesn't last 25 billion. kr or 16 brd. kr, as set out in the proposal for alternative NTP. Can't they join us, and then we get fully funded InterCity by 2025? At least we want to be part of it and hope that the Left will too, and then we will expand this framework to ensure that it is implemented. And the SSB has said that it's perfectly sound to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1126	InterCity is very important to the Left, and we will, as I said from the pulpit, build it by 2025. The Railway Agency has said that is possible. Then we're busy with the rule of action in the left hand side. We are very concerned about running a responsible economic policy, as I also said in my previous reply. We also believe in the bond model we have launched. That means that InterCity is organised in a separate investment project. There are actually a lot of people who want to go in and spend money on a project like this, that's actually that. Storbrand has been, and there are several life companies who have said that they are interested in financing it – and then the state has to guarantee it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1136	The representative Tenden, former Vice President of the Transport Committee, spoke warmly about the train. That's what I appreciate listening to, because a person didn't talk as much about the train as he had the Minister of Transport. Then put one of 250 million. NOK to IC in Austria, and it would take approx. 500 years to get it expanded with the sums left had then. Now there's one out of government, and then there's one more money. My question is directed towards OPS. Someone calls it Public Private Sleezing to keep up with OPS, because that means that many billions of dollars will go from the taxpayers to people who lend money to these OPS projects – that is, a waste of taxpayers' money, when one lets the money go there instead of going to roads and investments. What is the reason why the Left is going for OPS, which is stupid and expensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1143	It's a little poor to have to go back eight years in time and talk about a government council that was sitting there. In fact, I am very proud of the work of the Minister of Transport of the Left, among others. by thinking new, which is totally lacking in this government. An example is the Gjøvik track, which achieved a cleansing, with several departures and stiffer times. This will continue when we join the government: thinking new, modernizing and streamlining. And so it's like the Left has gone in for some OPS projects. The three that have been, have actually been successful. The projects were built in a shorter time, and those who built them took responsibility for a long time afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1150	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1153	Today, Stortinget adopts a document that will change Norway. National transport plan 2014-2023 will contribute to meeting important transport needs across the country. A new transport plan will enable a safer, faster and simpler transport system. It will contribute to a modern purpose. Central parts of the railway will have a modern standard. InterCity will be expanded, and Norwegian aviation will be further developed to maintain its good position. Politics is not about promising the most, nor about using the greatest words, but about implementing what you promise. In 2005, the red-green opposition accumulated and proposed 22 billion. more for the journey than the right party of the Christian people, and the left. This was characterised by the Bondevik government as a surrender. In the 2009 budget, the government could show that the promise was overfilled by nearly 6 billion. kr. That same year, the government presented a new big journey promise, and today it is promised a fulfilled promise, even overfilled by 1.5 billion. kr. With today’s National Transport Plan, ambitions are further lifted. The financial framework for the transport plan will be increased by 50 p.m. in relation to the 2013 appropriations, and we are taking structural action to ensure that we get more for each ticket. The transport system will be simpler because we want to simplify planning processes and ensure rational implementation. This will be faster because large expansions and investments in operation and maintenance will bring significant travel time gains. And it'll be safer because we'll continue our efforts on road safety. Here we still want to be far ahead. Today’s approach shows that there is a broad consensus on the long-term objectives of Norwegian transport policy: accessibility, road safety, environment and universal design. Neither is there any significant disagreement with regard to the overall financial framework. The greatest disagreement in the financing of transport does not go between government and opposition, but it goes between opposition parties. The government is concerned that we will get more money back in the transport sector. I am pleased that the Stortinget today joins in a new and predictable way of financing large transport facilities. A secure financing from the day one will mean rational progress, faster completion and saving money. This transport plan defines to a far greater extent the transport operations to be undertaken by different modes of transport. We depend on both aviation, maritime transport, road and rail in this country. And the modes of transport must work together. Road will be the cornerstone of transport in large parts of the country, just as public transport will be the best way of managing the growth of urban areas. The railway must first be built out where the railway has its maximum potential. Once the plan has been implemented, the railway will make it much easier to commute over greater distances and thus help to reduce urban pressure problems. There is no difference between town and town. The deployment of the railway effort is important for decommissioning cities, but also important for further growth in rural areas. In the future, aviation will be central to the longest journeys. What Norway sees today, with housing and business throughout the country, depends on a fine-skinned airport structure. A new transport plan ensures that. It is very ambitious when the Stortinget today decides that the growth of passenger travel in metropolitan areas should be taken by public transport, by bicycle and by bicycle. This objective, as well as the new urban environment agreements to be negotiated subsequently between the major cities and the state, will change urban areas. The transport plan suggests that road investment should be increased by 77 pst. from the level in 2013. 1280 km of highway shall be built during the ten-year period. Of this, 780 km are to be built as a non-conference road. That means that the number of kilometres of road without meeting will double in the period. The tolls will be around the day's level for the next ten years. On the other hand, government appropriations for road investment will increase. So the total share of road investment in tolls will fall sharply over the next 10 years. Railway investments shall be increased by 51 pst. from the level in 2013. We often have a tendency in the transport debate to point to the expectations ahead, and then the parties double the expectations. But I also think it's important to take into account that there has been a formidable investment on the railways in the last eight years. Compared to 2005, the planned increase in railway investment is a total of 380 pst. The journey time on the IC routes will be greatly reduced during the period. From Oslo to Skien, travel time will be reduced by 37 minutes, from Oslo to Lillehammer by 29 minutes and from Oslo to Halden by 18 minutes. As important as building new, it's taking care of what we have. It is set to increase the annual level of funds for road operation and maintenance by nearly 18 pst. compared to the level in 2013. This will reduce the maturity for the first time during the planning period. For the railway it is added up to a level of operation and maintenance which is close to 46 pst. higher than in 2013. This means that the number of hours that trains will be delayed will be greatly reduced, and the number of trains cancelled will also be greatly reduced. Traffic safety is an important part of the national transport plan and the broad and systematic work undertaken in recent years to reduce the risk of accidents must continue. Since 2005, the accident risk has been reduced by 30 pst. The ambitious objective of the planning period is to halve the number of fatalities and road traffic damage. Investments in the transport plan will also reduce transport costs for business by 78 billion. kr during the 10 year period. For districts, transport costs will be reduced by 47 billion. kr. The NHO and the LO have defined the government’s transport plan as a historic boost. The NHO believes that the investment framework set up by the government is far from the scope of action in the economy. In other words, the government bets what it is possible to invest in the next ten years, without destroying Norwegian competitiveness for business. The government has high ambitions in the field of transport, and we have – so far – fulfilled them. Nearly 1,000 km of new highway is already built, or under construction. Large parts of InterCity are already under construction. Punctuality on the railway has improved significantly. Nine out of ten trains are now in the route. Climate emissions from the transport sector do not increase, despite strong traffic growth. The transport plan adopted today will change Norway. It will contribute to a faster, simpler and safer transport system and will provide the basis for a forward-looking transport policy, where needs across the country are met. All transport needs we have in Norway are not covered by this 10-year plan, but it shows – literally – the way to a simpler, safer and faster transport system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1202	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1205	I think you should be honest and clear, and I'm going to be clear with the Minister of Transport on this that the national transport plan is fulfilled in dollars. But then I also think the Council of State must be honest and honest and tell you that it is not fulfilled in terms of projects. There are many reasons why projects are outsourced, but there are also economic reasons why projects within the NTP — in the action programme up to this year — have not been implemented in line with what has been agreed in the Stortinget. The government boasts of more coherent projects. I was very happy when I saw it. Unfortunately, the disappointment grew when we saw the results. That's good, and I'm really glad that we're going to build E18 in my home municipality – Bamble – Ruchtvedt – Dørdal – but for the next ten years you're not going to do anything on either side of the way you're building up. The construction of 17–18 km is to be completed, and if that government has adopted it will not continue on either side for the next 10 years. That's how you can go from part of the country to part of the country, from project to project. It is not the implementation and overall development that the Council of State promised when NTP was presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1214	It is nice that the representative acknowledges that the framework of the national transport plan has been met. It is very important, because it has not happened before – not until this government came to the government table. I agree that there may be various reasons why some projects may have been delayed, including: it may have been due to plan clarifications or other things, but those projects are also underway. Then I do not agree with the representative that it is not being put into continuous development. On the contrary, I believe that this transport plan shows a number of examples of what will happen in the years to come. Let me mention two of the projects: one is already under construction, namely the joint project along Mjösa, with the construction of railway and road – E6. The second big thing that will soon be on the bed, which will become important, is the E6 in Helgeland — also a large and continuous extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1225	During the Committee’s many trips, not least during the consultation on NTP, there was one theme that was repeated among many: lack of road maintenance, in particular the maintenance of national and county roads. In particular, the county councils say clearly that they are not able to do this alone. The government has obviously realized that a 75-billion bill. kr is heavy to the counties. The goal of the government is to reduce the maturity over the ten-year period. The government gives more money, but it removes the interest-free loan scheme. For many counties, it means about zero in net effect. How many years does the government consider that the users of the county road network should wait for the maintenance sit-down to be removed and why the allocation of the new funds via the framework to the county municipalities is only 25 pst. the first four years of the 10-year period? Many people in particular wonder why – when the need is so great – you should get at least in the beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1234	I very much agree that operation and maintenance are important issues related to any national transport plan being submitted. It has also been in this national transport plan. In this area – as I pointed out in my post – there is a huge increase, both on the railways and on the road. So I said at the end of my post that one isn't going to solve all the maintenance needs during this ten-year period. But this plan will be the first one where one actually has the opportunity to reduce the decay on the roads – it has not had before – and it comes from the strong and steady commitment to operation and maintenance that the government has now had over several years, on the road and not least on the railway. We have used far more than what was in the framework of the transport plan for 2010–2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1241	Yesterday I had the exquisite pleasure of being on a première, namely to drive through the new tunnel between Sokna and Ørgenvika, which is to open next year. It's a project I've been working on, including in Buskerud, since the mid-1980s, when the Council of State and I were in each of our political youth organisations – which unfortunately was almost 30 years ago. It takes a very long time to plan a road or a route in Norway, and the Council of State itself corresponds to the Stortinget – and also writes in the NTP – that one should halve the planning time. What concrete action will the Council of State take – I see that the Council of State is now also concerned that bureaucracy has grown within the Road Administration and the Railway, and will do something about it, and it is great after eight years to get that recognition – to halve a normal planning time from ten to five years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1251	I think there are a number of measures that can be taken to get more left for each fare crown a grant. It is also one of the important issues in the transport plan that we are dealing with today. To mention a simple and concrete measure, I believe that we need to set more deadlines for development. I think that is a concrete example. But then I want to say that it's also a matter of a not letting out that the increased number of employees are bureaucrats, when the reality is that the increased number of employees are much more planners and engineers, who are going to deal with the increased appropriations and implement the projects that a person wants to realize at a faster time than today. So I think a little bit more precision and a little bit less populist line from the right at that particular point would be useful, and also that one had come up with correct information about, for example. the railway projects that will be dealt with in the Stortinget in the future. They're not down to 50 million. kr, they're over 500 million. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1258	I agree that there is a need for deadlines, but it is a big challenge that we could have saved 30 pst. of the costs of another organisation. We know that seven out of ten projects are delayed. We know that one of the five projects in the NTP that is for this period, in the first part, never came into place. We know that it takes ten years to plan a road. To make this concrete, I'm going to refer to the entrance on the west side of Kristiansand. There the government proposes 650 million. in temporary measures on a route where we know that a new trajectory has been calculated at 1.5 billion. kr. Then my question is: does the Council not see the need for a greater renewal, and that one must also take structural action?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1265	In the national transport plan we are dealing with today, the government has done two things. Firstly, one has proposed an ambitious framework for appropriations and investments in the years to come. Secondly, one has proposed a series of measures that will allow one to get more of the money that one puts into the transport sector. I almost have to say now that the opposition should rather concentrate on how to cut over the difficult Georgian knot they have between themselves in terms of how to finance what is going to happen in the transport sector in the years to come, because they fundamentally disagree. That means that the government and government parties have presented their alternative, but in the case of the opposition parties, we know very little about what alternative they will actually implement, and how they will finance the option they might have implemented. The progress party will not have tolls, and to say what it is, the Right and Christian People's Party will spend the money they have invested in the NTP several times. So they also throw blues in people's eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1272	The left is committed to realizing the Ringerix Railway as part of InterCity, and we believe that InterCity can be realized by 2025. There's at least information I'm sitting on. So I have two questions for the Council of State – first, does the Council of State agree that InterCity can be realised by 2025 if you prioritize it? And question two: is there any money in the railway station for the planning of the Ringeriksbahn, as SV's Hallgeir H. Langeland says today on the radio?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1279	I have to say that the government has made a thorough and serious assessment of the progress of InterCity, and we have come to the conclusion that the most realistic thing is that one has the three steps we have now also presented to the Stortinget, namely 2024 for the inner part, 2026 and also 2030. I see that both the Christian People's Party and the Left want one to realize it by 2025, but I can't see that any of the parties have invested the resources and the money needed to get it done. On the contrary, they have increased frames very little in relation to the government, and that money they spend several times to keep promises. It's throwing blues in the eyes of the voters. Then we'll come back to the fact that there's a Gordian knot that's going to be captivated between the opposition parties in terms of funding. It must be painful. I don't know who it gets most painful for, but the voters don't know it before the election. On the contrary, there is an impression from the opposition that one here can do both what the Advance Party will, what the Right will, the Christian People's Party and the Left will. We all know that it's not possible to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1288	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1291	One of the main goals of the Workers' Party, historically and for the future, is to build the country. That is why we have delivered two national transport plans that have both exceeded what was expected. That is why we have over-filled the previous and the current transport plan. That is why we must also deliver on the transport plan that we are to adopt later today, possibly tomorrow. It's not obvious that governments overfill their own travel promises, and there's someone here in the hall who knows a little about it. At the right, the list remained low between 2001 and 2005 — and the reef. We've put the list substantially to the right, and so higher, and so higher, and like a Sotomayor, we get over with a good margin. Then you have the Progress Party, which in this competition places the list so high that they won't even reach it. It's gonna be dead anyway. So I'm going to be the first to admit that we have huge unsolved problems. We need both new and better roads. Rail has a major need for modernisation and large-scale development. But we're on it. Everything doesn't happen tomorrow, until next year, or the next ten years, but it's being built and maintained more than in a very long time. It's going to be new, more holistic, more coherent, more predictable and more efficient. Right-wing talk about new and modern solutions, means OPS and pushes the bill towards future taxpayers and drivers. The working party delivers new and modern solutions and takes the bill even in split layers with today's drivers. Major developments that will change Norway are ahead of us, and smaller measures, which means a lot to those involved – business and people. With the current transport plan, the railway emerged from the shadow again. After having been overlooked and neglected for many years, there is now a willingness to bet on the train as a means of transport again. At its best, the railways have the capacity to move large quantities of people and goods in an efficient, safe, environmentally friendly and land-efficient way. The Norwegian railway doesn't live up to its best now, but it's about to turn around. Trains are more on track, and there are fewer settings now than there were just a few years ago. The number of kilometres of new double track increases, the number of passengers rises, new modern trainsets roll on the tracks every three weeks. It's a new spring for the railroad, in a few years it'll turn into a full flower. The working party is in the process of double-tracking in the intercity triangle. In this national transport plan, we set years for when we want to be done. In 2026 we set up double tracks between Hamar, Tønsberg and Fredrikstad. The target is full intercity expansion in 2030. That is, the target is not double track, but that is what the double track contributes – of reduced travel time, more capacity, reduced transport costs. Cities and cities along the routes are growing. We need a railway that can get people forward safely and efficiently, and that facilitates another housing and labour market that relieves the most central areas. In particular, intercity is important for the transport of goods. I see that several of the opposition parties think we are too slow. But their alternative transport plans are not in the vicinity of setting up what is needed to reach their own time fortifications. The right temporal attachment of InterCity is otherwise equal to ours. I'll come back to that in a later article. The railway is particularly important in the East, but also in other parts of the country, there will be great things for the railway: electrification of the Trander Railway and the Meråker Railway, new tunnel under Ulriken and double-track Bergen-Arna. The track shall be lifted. The Alnabru terminal shall be modernised and developed. Measures shall be put in place to allow more and longer trains at Ofotbanen. Capacity-enhancing measures such as crossing tracks are set up on a number of other sections of the track. Several billion will be spent on the new pan-European signalling system. As a basis for the next NTP in four years, we will continue planning the Ringeriksbanen, and we will plan a link between the Vestfoldbanen and the Sørlandsbanen. The investigation of double tracks between Stavanger and Egersund means a lot in a part of the country that is growing enormously. This is a national transport plan – also for the railways. Not least, it is put up for much more maintenance and renewal of the path we already have. There's little help with new tracks when we have them, they don't really take care of them. This is perhaps the area that has been most neglected in recent decades. There has been a promise, and it will be lifted further in the years to come. And we have to get more goods on track. The transport plan proposes a number of measures that could increase freight volumes by up to 50 pst. There have been challenges since the financial crisis gave it a ‘dip’ and the railway has had a hard time being reliable. Measures that can increase volumes up to 50 pst. is ambitious on behalf of goods on the track, but so ambitious we have to be. And we see the relationship between orbit, road and sea. If we look at the tasks we have given to the Railway Agency in recent years – which will be even more in the years to come – and the increased train traffic, it is strange that some people at all ask why there is a need for new employees. I believe there is a strong signal about bets and confidence in the future when the Railway Agency has taken in almost 150 apprentices in recent years. It's going to be new, bigger and more complete now than before. Right-wing people at the railway seminar heard in winter from the Railway Agency how they have renewed the sector in recent years. The NHO applauded enthusiastically, not only for the NTP government but for what they heard about the renewal in the sector. The railway has a bright time in front of a still red-green government. In the extension of this, I am particularly proud of the efforts of the Workers' Party and the Government to meet the transport challenges in urban areas, and to ensure more climate-friendly transport. Public transport is a municipal responsibility. The National Labour Party meeting two years ago said that the State must contribute more to collective solutions in cities. It puts up the transport plan, by a lot of means, but also with a complete thought behind it. The climate agreement states that the growth of urban passenger transport is to be taken by means of public transport, bicycles and corridors. Binding agreements shall be concluded between the cities/territory and the State on how to achieve this. The State is setting up with funds. There seems to be a relatively large consensus on this at Stortinget, but I'm worried when Right Vice President Jan Tore Sanner says to Budstikka on April 25th this year: ‘In addition, we do not require negotiations before the money is allocated, as the government proposes with its urban packages.’ In that case, this would be a breach of the climate agreement, and would be contrary to what the NHO Transport insists on. They are quite clear that agreements must be made with urban areas, so that both national and local commitments are made. Only money for public transport, and no expectation of a reduction in car use, does not give the effect you want. The Labour Party and the Government will contribute government funds to collective solutions; to the Fornebubane, new Ahusbahn and T-Bahn tunnel – if that's what Oslo and Akershus want – and to the Urban Railway in Bergen, Busway in Trondheim and the high-quality collective solution on Nord-Jären. We do not go into action, but in urban areas we have to add up to a policy that ensures that growth takes place collectively, not by car. At the same time, we see that there are collective challenges, including beyond the four major cities, that the state should also contribute there. It is a new and forward-looking transport planning to include public transport in this way. It will provide less queue and chaos, and more efficient and environmentally friendly transport in urban areas. The transport plan shows that the involvement of business and people around the country has shown for better transport solutions, yields results. Many people can congratulate each other today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1341	I've got ten minutes now. As rapporteur for case No. 10, I ask to make a separate post with a speaking time of 3 minutes in that case. The government's NTP framework is approx. 500 B.C.E. DKK of 10 years. Once again, there is a crown chord, and the government can say: Never has any government spent so much money on transportation. Insularly, it's good. But the need is not defined. The need is enormous; for road and rail investment, for more maintenance, to cover maintenance run-in on highways and county roads, for more race safety, for more traffic safety, and for far more to urban collective systems. Wisely, the government speaks as little as possible about the need – understandably, therefore, also little about the impact of the plan after the next ten years compared to just the need. The impact is small, unfortunately, because the need for investment and upgrading of transport infrastructure is so extensive. The Consultative Engineering Association has compared 2023 standards with 2013 standards based on government proposals for NTP. It gives an indication of what is achieved after completing a ten-year plan. The effect is essentially unchanged. On the road network, the results in the fields of accessibility, safety, climate, environment and universal design are unchanged. With the government’s plan, it will continue to take 50–70 years to provide Norway with safe and environmentally friendly roads and a modern rail network. The party of progress is impatient. The Progress Party believes, as most people do, that Norway should build better roads and new railways much faster than the government provides. The Progress Party believes, as most people, that Norway should use the opportunities and build the country – building efficient, safe and environmentally friendly roads and modern railways with state funding, money from the surpluses provided by Norwegian oil and gas to Norway on annual government budgets. The Progress Party believes, as most people do, that faster deployment of roads and railways can be done without toll financing, and without threatening future pensions and destroying the Norwegian economy. The Progress Party's alternative proposal increases the government's proposed framework by 455 billion. kr. That means 45.5 billion. kr more each year during the period. It is in line with assessments by the Statistical Central Bureau, which confirms that this is very well tolerated by the Norwegian economy. Norway is a country of search. We have an economic opportunity for most countries to envy us, but at the same time an immature road and rail network that other countries do not understand that Norway accepts as a quest country. The Progress Party believes that we must use the opportunity to build the country. The Progress Party believes that it is better to invest Community money in roads and railways in Norway than in foreign trade. The two major projects in the plan, the intercity operation in the East and the ferry-free E39 along the West Coast, will finance the Progress Party outside the State budget through project organisation and clear project funding, as was done when Gardermoen and the Flytogen were built. InterCity and the Free E39 are far bigger projects than this — and much more important for the nation. So once again, we have to choose such a solution that we have chosen and used before. The party of progress will build for future generations and thus take responsibility for generations seriously. Instead of postponing and delaying the construction of modern infrastructure – as the government does – the Progress Party through faster deployment and upgrading will strengthen Norwegian competitiveness in order to ensure earnings and value creation for future generations. The Progress Party wants the State to cover the bill and to reject more toll financing. It is unnecessary for the drivers to pay the bill twice. Today, the drivers pay 55 billion a year. NOK in taxes and taxes related to the car, and only approx. 18 B.C.E. kr of the sum used for the road. With a large expected surplus on the state budget, Norway can afford to build the country without – as I have said before – future pension funds disappearing, and without the country’s economy being out of control. The Progress Party agrees with the government that Norway has major challenges related to urban transport systems, especially the four largest. The Progress Party believes that the collective offer in Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim needs to be strengthened, and we believe that the state has a special responsibility for this, especially in terms of financial responsibility through arrangements that provide clear and long-term funding. The Progress Party believes that the continuation of the so-called reward scheme and the launch of so-called urban environmental packages do not provide such clarification and long-term sustainability. On the contrary, it seems unclear how the reward scheme and urban environment packages should interact and how the urban environment packages are designed. This was also apparent during the hearing of the Transport Committee on a new national transport plan. The Progress Party proposes to amend and clarify both measures: we remove the whip and demand for transport-restrictive measures for passenger transport carried out by car. We reward, support and finance good collective actions, as well as investments in infrastructure and equipment that support a better collective offer and that increase the collective share. In addition, the Progress Party proposes new measures. We're proposing a 10-billion-dollar collective package. kr, an urban package of 5 billion. kr, and a big city package of 13 br. NOK, where half is used for the purchase of transport. This is in addition to the government's reward scheme of 9 billion. kr and the urban environment package of nearly 17 br. kr. So it's about there. 26 B.C.E. kr in the plan. In addition, the Advance Party will use a further 21,5 billion. kr for the purchase of public transport services in urban areas – over 2 billion. kr annually and continued from a 30-year perspective. It provides long-term and clear funding, including for public transport, especially in the largest cities, and it will greatly improve the supply. I would particularly like to stress that in changed and new arrangements for the four major cities, the Progress Party will pay particular attention to Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim. These cities, due to a limited network of railways, receive a small proportion of the annual appropriations for the government budget. 1351, which concerns the purchase by the country of passenger transport services by train. This annual budget line is not part of the national transport plan. It's really incomprehensible given that this year's budget is almost 3 billion. kr. Of this, 1.7 billion is going to go. kr to close traffic around the four largest cities, and Oslo gets nearly 1.4 billion. kr of this sum. This bias will be changed by the Progress Party, not by cutting off the purchase of train transport – which the government parties in the adjustment still seem to believe – but by the distribution of the Progress Party's new major urban package and by new arrangements on the government's collective packages. I refer to the comments of the Progress Party on this in the setting in Chapter 9.3.2. The party of progress is impatient. We want to upgrade the road and rail network in 30 years – the government will spend 50–70 years. The Progress Party believes that Norway can afford, and that the Norwegian economy – as confirmed by the Statistical Central Bureau – can withstand the increase that needs to be made. For a faster pace without tolls, a strong advance party is needed in a new government after the election. Renewal of the transport policy requires the same thing: a strong advance party in a new government after the 2013 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1383	On the right is a sector that is over-modernized and more efficient. People are asking for a railway on time, which is predictable, and which has decent quality and capacity. So the right considers that time is overdue for both new ideas and better solutions in this area. The planning time for new projects should be halved. After eight years, it looks like the government might also be able to track this. A comprehensive planning of longer distances, better estimates of the real value of transport projects for society as a whole and less political detail management will help to streamline rail and other collective services and improve the quality of decisions. Right will have a railway on rails as rails. Railways are characterised by a monopolistic culture, where old solutions provide poor management and poor capacity. The result is constant delays, delays and expensive projects, overfilled trains and a decreasing freight share. So we're going the wrong way. The Bondevik II government left itself a railway on the road to improvement. Punctuality increased from 70 pst. for more than 90 pst. during the period. The appropriations increased, the railway works were in the process of being converted, and the industry was preparing for a competitive outsourcing of maintenance tasks that would make the railway works stronger in the order role, more modern and with a more obvious user focus. The appropriations for railway actions have increased by 68 pst, but they have not improved the operational stability and the closure of train traffic. About 70 pst. investment projects are not initiated as planned and 60 pst. have been completed later than planned. The majority of these investment projects have also become significantly more expensive — from 35 p.m. to 35 p.m. to 54 pst. – than what was originally estimated. It'll just be the first letter to ask for the need for innovation in this area. The maturity is large, and the lag on the railway is estimated to be 200 billion. kr. Here too, new ideas and better solutions are needed. The right will have a neutral and efficient railway organisation. We want to modernise the Railway Agency to a professional construction company with a command function. One of the problems today is that we have a lack of predictability in financing railway development. On the right, the Railway Agency will transform it into a separate company. It will allow them to raise loans and manage themselves more of their priorities in the context of the general guidelines. The company shall manage the development and operation of the railway infrastructure and the Stortinge shall deal with and adopt general guidelines, but shall not guide the priorities. The right-hand party believes that the company should take over the ownership and administration of station buildings and station areas. It will allow for development. The railway works will receive revenues that they can also use for investments in the railway network, as Avinor has with the aerodromes. The right objective is increased profitability in train operation. At the same time, it is important that the Railway Agency provides efficient service to all train operators. In order for operators not to be harmed by delays and errors caused by the Railway Works, it is right-wing that a closer assessment of the incentives and incentive structure is needed. We believe that the road tax is one of the models that should be assessed. In addition, we believe that the actual performance of the maintenance tasks should be carried out as far as possible by private companies in a market of free competition. The railway undertaking must carry out the minimum operational and maintenance work itself, limited to the tasks necessary for the lack of an efficient market, or for emergency reasons. Major expansions such as InterCity, Ringeriksbanen, Stavanger-Egersund and Ofotbanen should be organised as their own development projects, thus allowing for different types of financing and the possibility of borrowing. Repeatedly we hear that trains are delayed due to problems with the signalling systems. The right considers that a specific concrete plan for the conversion of the signalling systems on the routes in Norway to the European standard, ERTMS, should be presented as soon as possible. So far, what has been announced on the east line is exposed for a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1409	Connecting our country together has been an important task at all times. With politics and technology, we have, through generations, despite natural forces and overcome our demanding landscape. A major boost has been made in the field of transport, but there are still significant challenges ahead of us. We must therefore take care of the values already laid down in the transport infrastructure. At the same time, it is important to invest in new infrastructure that builds on value creation and more jobs and that binds the country even more closely. National Transport Plans 2014-2023 focus on measures both in cities and in districts so that the whole country can participate in positive societal developments. Norway is a maritime and coastal nation. Our marine areas are about seven times larger than mainland Norway, and the coastline of bays and fjords is longer than the circumference of the earth around the equator. And most of us have a relationship with the coast and the sea: the sea gives us food and energy and is an important transport year. Many live and work along the coast, and even more spend their leisure time there. Our strength and position as a maritime and coastal nation is not only due to natural conditions, but can also be attributed to our will and efforts to expand infrastructure along the coast. Such an infrastructure is important for the petroleum activity, for industrial workplaces, for fisheries, for the maritime food industry and not least for the tourism industry. Let me also say that maritime transport is an important and well-functioning part of the Norwegian transport system. More than 40 pst. of the total domestic cargo work carried out by ships and, in international trade, maritime transport is totally dominant. However, it is that more goods can and should be carried by sea, because maritime transport is associated with low infrastructure costs, maritime transport limits land use, and maritime transport can address queues, congestion and maintenance and investment needs on the roads. Furthermore, maritime transport is a safe form of transport which also contributes to safer road transport by removing several heavy vehicles from the road. Good infrastructure is – combined with maritime services, such as: loss and monitoring of ship traffic — key maritime safety measures that contribute to the prevention of marine collisions, ground collisions and adverse marine incidents. In addition, ships are effective – with low energy consumption and low greenhouse gas emissions. That is why there are good reasons why the government will see that as much growth as possible in the long freight transport is on track and sea, and that we will pursue a policy to facilitate the transport of goods from road to sea. I am therefore very pleased that in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023 there is an offensive investment of 19.4 billion. kr directed towards the sea and maritime transport. It's equivalent to an increase of 55 pst. in relation to the 2013 budget, the increase is 180 pst. if one compares with the level in 2005. That is, the level is almost three times as high as it was when the red-green government took over in 2005. For the maritime transport sector, the Government has these main priorities in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023: actions in a dedicated short sea shipping strategy on fairway improvements — including the world’s first maritime tunnel on maritime traffic monitoring operations, maintenance and renewal of port infrastructure navigation aids in Longyearbyen and the development of BarentsWatch on transport planning and coastal management research and investigation on freight transport and combined transport solutions. Every year it passes half a million trailers across the Svinesund, and we know that freight will increase significantly in the coming years. The government has therefore set out in its national transport plan of 3 billion. kr for measures to increase the transport of goods by sea. For every ship being filled, we save the roads – and protect those who travel there – for about 200 trailers. Within the framework of a short sea shipping strategy, we will design measures to stimulate the increased use of short sea shipping, to design a grant scheme for State aid for investments in designated ports, and to design a port cooperation and freight concentration subsidy scheme. And not least, we want to strengthen research and investigation on the transport of goods by sea and combined transport solutions, because, as you know, most goods have longer transport needs than from one port to the next – we need to find the good combined transport solutions. The first three points that I mentioned here represent something completely new. This is a new area of activity which will help to clarify and make the Coastal Network visible as a port and maritime transport body. These days work on concreteising the measures as far as possible within the State aid guidelines. The plan is to present the strategy in August. The final design and implementation of the measures will depend on the ESA treatment. In addition, we shall, in cooperation with carriers and owners of goods, identify freight flows, logistical trends and the interaction between key actors in the freight market. The aim is to provide the best possible basis for assessing the potential for efficient transport of goods by land by sea. In summary, we believe that we have delivered a transport plan for the coast with which there is reason to be very satisfied. It's also the feedback we get from the different actors. At the same time, it is quite clear that we cannot stand here in this room and adopt more goods at sea. We are totally dependent on economic operators helping to achieve this goal and at the same time finding solutions that are attractive to transport buyers. The transport plan discussed here today will mean a great deal for the maritime sector, and it builds on environmental policy and industrial development throughout the country. With the policy that the government has now drawn up in the national transport plan, it is designed to enable carriers and owners of goods to assess maritime transport with new eyes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1467	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1471	It is good to see that the Minister for Coastal Affairs and Fisheries has finally taken over, and today understands that Norwegian seafarers are able to navigate the sea in a good way and are able to find their way to the City Tunnel. But the problem with the government's proposal is, firstly, that the tunnel is not fully financed, and, secondly, that it should start only in 2018 – after we have had two collapse choices and a new review of the NTP. Most environments have received this as very positive, that the City Tunnel must be built, but why 2018? There have been so many investigations and plans, and everyone is talking about cutting down planning time and bureaucracy. The project can be started long before 2018. If it is not the bureaucracy that is delaying, then it is obviously the politicians. Why not before when you think the project is good?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1478	I am very pleased and proud to belong to a government that actually proposes that the City Ship Tunnel be built. It has many governments before this had the opportunity! I was a political adviser in the Ministry of Fisheries and the Coastal Department relatively early in the 1990s, and already then the City of the Ship Tunnel was well established. And there have been governments after that time. Now the Progress Party has not ever been in government, so I will not owe it to the Advance Party for it. But what this is actually about is that we have now been through an external quality assurance, KS1. This is a big project, and we have to review that race. In addition, there is a big difference between the red-green government and the Progress Party: we keep the money, so that the business community that's going to take advantage of this tunnel still survives, and we don't put the economy in control by spending absolutely all the money right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1487	All parties in the Chamber agree on what was also the subject of the Council of State, namely the need to move freight from land to sea. I also fully agree with the Council that we can neither impose nor use coercive measures to achieve this, but we can remove some plugs. Here is a fresh challenge: an enquiry has just been made from the county municipality of Hordaland regarding transport by ferry from Bergen via Stavanger to Denmark. There it is that there is the capacity to lift trailers away from the road network, away from the E39. Carriers will, the ferry operator will, but this will stop problems related to the fee, i.e. to drive domestic ferry in terms of tax-free arrangements and VAT arrangements for the ferry company. Will the Council of State take the initiative to take a closer look at this together with the Ministry of Finance, so that the available ferry capacity can be exploited?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1496	I have some doubts about the question, but what I am sure of at least is that all the time it is about ferries, it is the responsibility of another transport minister, namely Minister of Transport Marit Arnstad. So in the case of charges and questions relating to ferry transport, it is her. The representative of Sortevik will probably be able to ask that question during the day. I am very happy that we agree on the goal of moving goods from land to sea – I guess I have never really been in doubt about that either. The question is how we succeed in getting it done. That is the background to the fact that this government has closed down a lot of fees, on my responsibility in total around 125 million. kr. Then we're talking about the coast fare, and we're talking about the annual port security fee. We have just received the Los Angeles Commission's investigation, which will be a good contribution to the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1503	Thanks for the answer. This does not apply to domestic journeys, so it does not apply to the Minister for Transport who is responsible for the ferries. In fact, there is a foreign holiday driving domestically to the rest of the world. The point is that by taking trailers that run in Norway on the E39 between Bergen and Stavanger on the ferry, we move trailer transport – i.e. road transport – to maritime transport. Then there is a tax problem when the trip abroad takes on domestic transport tasks. We have to be able to solve that, that's what the plug is. We have to be able to solve the charging problem in a way that allows both the ferry operator and those who are going to use the ferry service to live with it. In addition, with reference to the Minister of Transport, the answer is a good example of why we need a Ministry of Transport and that it is completely wrong to be responsible for maritime transport in a Ministry of Fisheries. The progress party would like to change that solution, but at first we need help to remove a stopper.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1510	I still stand by the fact that even if you use a foreign ferry on domestic voyages, at least it becomes part of a domestic ferry, and that's not my responsibility. But at least I'll take the issue with me to discuss it with the right person. It seems to me that there are some ‘naggs’ on the question that, of course, are not presented here, but at least we're taking it with us. But once again back to business, because after all, it's mostly business along the coast, as well as the users of the roads, who will profit from us getting better solutions here. I will once again raise what is at least a little bit of the main challenge of the Progress Party's policy, where there is always money to both eliminate taxes and spend more money, which means that we are at risk of a completely different everyday life up to, with high crown prices and a higher interest rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1517	The Council of State stated in its statement that we are a maritime and coastal nation. Yeah, I think we all agree on that. She highlighted the increase in maritime transport that is now included in this national transport plan. Now there are 30 different charges that are linked to transport by sea, which makes it relatively expensive. But something else that is unusually important in order to speed up maritime transport is the port – that ports become so-called intermodal ports, which means that you can get a direct transfer to other means of transport. Trondheimsfjorden is really a key area for it, not least because there is a lot of transport going on from Sweden. There's no solution here. What does the Council of State, together with the Minister for Transport, intend to do to find a solution – within the time period – that will prevent a person from being given shared solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1526	The economic framework conditions for the various transport sectors have been reviewed and presented in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. That review showed that maritime transport did not come out badly when it came to charges. What might be the question is if you load the boat and the car correctly, that you get with absolutely everything. Then the maritime transport does not come out worse. We see, of course, that there are significant differences between domestic and international maritime transport. This government has significantly reduced user transport by sea. We have reduced the fees by nearly 125 million. kr for the period 2010–2013. Then we've reduced the Losing Committee, and we're going to have time to deal with that later. In the case of Trondheimsfjorden, I guess I'm also about as impatient as the questioner. I have a very good dialogue with the Minister for Transport, and I am absolutely sure that we will find good solutions in Trondheimsfjorden as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1535	There is reason to congratulate the Council of State on the decision taken by the Government on the City Tunnel. It has been received with great joy along the coast. We also know that in the present NTP there is a 2 million promise. kr in the last part of the planning period. Now there's a proposal for 1 billion. kr in the last part of the planned period currently in existence. So this is our first tunnel. My question is, how will the Council of State organise this in a good way, so that we can ensure that we get the progress that is absolutely necessary, that we get the KS2 report in place? We do have a coastal director with experience from the State Road Administration, so this should be in safe hands. But in what way can the Council of State signal progress in the project? And if the plan work goes as fast as it can, could one get started in the first part?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1542	I thank you for the congratulations, and I just want to repeat that I am very pleased and proud that this government is proposing that we build the City Tunnel. It's one thing that's lived a long, long life. We can do that by actually building the world's first ship's tunnel. Of course, we have to implement the processes you have to do in terms of this being a big project, and we have to have a KS process on it. I just have to repeat that I actually believe that the red-green government and the Christian People's Party agree that we have to keep wise on the use of money. We can't do everything at the same time, because then suddenly we don't have a business that can benefit from this tunnel. We know that the business community on the west coast, as the representative Hareide knows very well, is very export-oriented, and putting their future at stake through a game of opportunity with an economic policy that the industry on the coast cannot tolerate, I strongly advise against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1549	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1553	First of all, in fact, the Progress Party is in line with the economic framework proposed by the SSB. If the Council of State feels that it is irresponsible, I believe it is not the Progress Party that has a problem, but the Council of State. Effective and safe transport is a prerequisite for the market economy, for our competitiveness and for the settlement, import and export of goods. That is why the treatment of NTP is a very important matter, but unfortunately we have to learn that the government's proposal for NTP does not invest enough in strategically important infrastructure this time either. It's important that we think about the whole thing and the varying needs of society. In particular, it is important to see the needs of the different industries related to the national transport plan. Because when we know what a central, good and safe provision of transportation means for the whole country, this shouldn't be a question of whether we can really afford it. The truth is that we can’t afford to leave out — not only for better road safety, fewer killed and injured, but also related to the needs of society and industry. In this way, the Progress Party sees that parts of NTP do not respond to the needs of industry or industry. An example of this is the municipality of Nordkapp and Statoil’s desire to establish and invest in a new oil terminal – unless the government’s tax incentives for oil and gas industries stop this project. Statoil wants and will invest 6 billion-7 billion. kr in a project that is very profitable for our nation. Then the State and Stortinget should grant the necessary frameworks to repair E6 from Lakselv to Olderfjord and E69 to Honningsvåg. The Skarvberg tunnel should also be extended and race-proof so that the works there can be carried out in a safe environment. Unfortunately, the government does not see this context and these challenges and obviously prefers that we should experience the same thing here as during and after Hammerfest/Snow White development, where the road many years after start-up is far from finished. We see that the road Skaidi-Hammerfest is again being pushed out in time. I really wanted to brag a little of the members of the Committee from the government parties about Farledaktion Leirpollen and the Progress Party's comment on prioritizing this during the first part of the planning period. But what the members of the committee from the government parties write in their comments on the Farled actions of Leirpollen in Austertana is written in such a way that it can be interpreted differently. Do you mean in the first part of the planning period, or do you mean in the second part of the planning period? What's early and what's late in the period? This is essential for both Elektem Tana, the employees and for the Norwegian melting plant industry. One of the world's largest quar sitters is in Austertana, and Elkem Tana delivers 80 pst. of the need for the Norwegian melting plant industry, which has approx. 800 employees. The melting plant industry is several places to be regarded as corner stone farms, both in Mo in Rana, in Bremen, in Orkanger and in Hardanger. A dwindling in Tana will lead to that industry becoming dependent on imports of quartzite from Turkey or Egypt, at a much more expensive price than today. We're gambling on industrial workplaces if this doesn't work out. On the other hand, parts of the area are natural areas, so it will take time from the start of planning to the start and implementation of the project. I am asking for a clarification from the government parties on this. It's very good in NTP about aviation and bets on airport development. It's good that the government will be investing in aviation, but it's a crossroads that too many of the government's and Avinor's investment plans are in the last part of the period. This is harmful to business – not least the tourism industry. The tourism industry has been growing well over time in Northern Norway, but the need for capacity to further develop the industry depends on tourists and not least on transport to and from the country. There are capacity problems in several places — in Tromsø, which is a very important ‘hub’ for the transport of tourists further north, needs investment. The same is true in Kirkenes and Alta, which have regular airfields that supply the rest of East and West Finland with tourists. Without improvements and renewal, capacity could not be increased, which in turn would mean stagnation and poor growth opportunities for the tourism industry. It may be mentioned here that charter aeroplanes directly from Europe to the Kirkenes must significantly reduce the number of passengers in their aeroplanes in order to comply with the safety regulations on landing. Unfortunately, much of what could become a natural growth would be put on ice for a long time in the 2020s. Rather than prioritizing the necessary expansion and extension of runways, the government prefers to take a massive profit from Avinor every year, so that beautiful words are what remains – or I should call it empty talk. The Progress Party has also proposed an impact assessment of coastal roads in Finnmark, Troms, Nordland and Sogn and Fjordane. Common to these projects is that large parts of the road network, both in Sogn and Fjordane and in North Norway, were originally built to transport fish and other values directly to the rest of the country, and are therefore similarly poorly adapted to tourism, value creation and intra-national trade. Common to the projects is that they will be responsible for the consolidation of different environments of competence, which will be able to strengthen residence and development through increased activity and nutrient production. Distance disadvantages, which are high in districts, will be significantly reduced. Over the next decade, today's government wants to spend 507 billion. kr on all transport – roads, railways, ports, fairways, public transport and urban activities – in Norway. During the same period, car-related car-related car-taxes alone will pay close to 600 billion. kr. In addition, tolls are estimated to be between 130 billion. kr and 150 br. kr during the period. The drivers would then have to pay a place between 200 billion kroner. DKK to 250 billion kr more in different charges over the next 10 years than the government plans to invest in all transport-related infrastructure. The representative Bjørnflaten claims that there is disagreement among the so-called bourgeois about tolls. Yeah, that's right. Both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party are allowed to fight for their vision – so the people, by choice, decide the meat weight, the size of the parties. Of course, the party of progress will fight for its vision. But one thing is certain: there won't be anything better with the red-green. Few have had longer and more greedy fingers in other people's wallets than this government. The party wants to spend far more on transportation than the government. We provide funds to establish a state-owned company for the railways and a state-owned company for the road. We want to put in place a safe, efficient and modern road and rail system in Norway. In addition, we want to catch up on highways and county roads for 10 and 15 years respectively. For every day that goes, Norway is even more lagging behind in terms of competitiveness and efficiency. Subsidies are increasing on roads, railways and other public infrastructure, such as road, water, sewerage and buildings. The Progress Party takes responsibility for future generations by investing in capital and infrastructure today. This will improve the conditions for future generations to face competition in an increasingly globalised world. An investment in own infrastructure is a much more appropriate way of managing common resources, not least in spreading risks. Most economists today agree with the Progress Party. Investing in own infrastructure is far more profitable than investing in pedestrian streets in London and Paris.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1583	National transport plan is a very important document — yes, of course it is. Good infrastructure, rapid and safe accessibility for both personnel and material is one of the pillars of well-being and growth for future generations. It's simply about how we're going to build the country for the next ten years. Now Norway is a coastal nation, as the Minister for Fisheries said, and I fully support it – and we would like to use the coast much more than today. 5 minutes isn't much time to talk from this pulpit, so I'm going to focus a lot on the maritime transport side. Traffic cooking on both roads and roads has increased in recent years far beyond the forecast for some years to come, and especially in the case of goods transport, it is almost frightening. We know the railroad's blown up. So what do we do? It passes over half a million car trains across Svinesund every year, and traffic increases every day. It has become difficult to deal with a passenger car, especially in winter, with many foreign drivers driving on bad material. It is simply a road safety problem – it threatens our road safety. Hardly any measure will be more effective from a road safety point of view than reducing trailer traffic. So then we have a transport year that is almost unused – highway no. 1st@item: inlistbox No country in Europe has such opportunities to use the motorway of the sea as is the case in Norway. We have a long country, and people live along the coast. A freight ship can carry the same amount of goods as 200 long-distance transport cars along the road – and then we're talking about a small ship. Getting part of this traffic across the sea will release capacity on the roads, while making significant environmental benefits. There has been a long cross-political agreement on getting more of the freight traffic across the sea. Unfortunately, developments have gone wrong in recent years, because maritime transport is much more user-funded than land transport is. The maritime transport has nearly 30 different fees and charges to deal with. The competition of short sea shipping with land transport means that differences in fees and level of charges between modes of transport are crucial to competitiveness. The difference between land transport and maritime transport has increased in favour of land transport. One step in the right direction is that the coastal and port security fees have now been phased out, but that is far from enough. In the right, there is a need for a comprehensive, targeted and strong commitment. Therefore, it is time for the state to contribute as a strategic partner to the achievement of the national maritime freight targets. Although some charges have been reduced by the government in recent years, maritime transport continues to face major challenges, among other things. the port costs. That is why there is a need for clear political action. The right, therefore, in this position, together with the Christian People's Party, proposes the introduction of a port subsidy scheme to be managed by the Coastal Agency. The maximum single fee is the unloading fee, which the minister was also involved in. It was 650 million. kr in 2012 – and has, among other things, has caused some of the cruise vessels not to enter the port of Norway. The Losing Committee just came up with its investigation, and we're really looking forward to getting results out of it. But much needs to be done to speed up maritime transport. For this reason, the Right, together with the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, proposes the launch of a public-private cooperation programme between authorities and industry to strengthen competition in maritime transport, inter alia. by mapping the flow of goods – which is now partially under way. So a little bit about aviation. Air transport is an important part of the transport system in Norway. Geography and topography make aviation increasingly important in Norway — much more so than in many other European countries. We in the Right are well pleased with the way Avinor handles this – essentially – but we have been concerned about some problems along the way, as it has sometimes been. We are also very concerned that the private airports, such as Torp and Rygge, will have the same competitive conditions as the public owned ones. I should have said a lot more, but I will especially come back to some things related to Middle Norway in a later article in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1615	When one has been speaking in an island municipality in the West for 16 years, much time and energy has gone into political activity to strengthen the transport of the home municipality and in the near region around which one is caged – and the jam has also made great progress in road, sea and air transport in my home municipality and in the region. I choose to believe that I have been having a positive influence. It's fun, and it's hard to work on transportation for themselves and for theirs, but I have to keep on working on a national transport plan these three or four years, i.e. a coherent plan for the whole country – it has our tail, it has our tail. On 29 February last year, the transport centres and Avinor presented their draft NTP. Now, just after Easter, the government made its recommendation, where an even higher level of initiative – and in all modesty: the Committee, through its management and its comments, has provided a number of leaders to make the plan even better. We in the Transport and Communications Committee have traveled around all our counties, and we have gained self-esteem through several rounds of hearings both here on the house and in all parts of the country. This has been a great journey to be on, and today it will be culminated in debate and decision on what is going to be the transport effort in our country for the next ten years. In the following, I want to focus on the coastal effort in this plan. Here comes the real one raising the next ten years with an increase of 55 pst. relative to the level of the permits now in 2013. With a goods part of about 90 pst. by external trade and 42 pst. maritime transport plays a very important role in our country. Norway, as one of the very few countries, also has a complete maritime environment with international leaders in most areas. This is a national advantage which makes it particularly important that we pursue an offensive policy in the field of maritime transport. The submitted message suggests that it should be used for 19.4 billion. kr on maritime transport during the period, and it is set by 3 billion. to strengthen maritime transport by working together with maritime operators to develop a more concrete short sea shipping strategy. This will provide investment in designated ports, better cooperation and division of tasks between ports, strengthening research and distribution on the carriage of goods by sea, and facilitate good links between the various modes of transport. Safety and emerging fairways are crucial for maritime transport. Upgrading and investing in maritime infrastructure and securing fairways will, together with a forward-looking, cost-effective and user-friendly unloading service, be an important contribution to a safer maritime transport service. Not all investments in infrastructure are visible, but unless the fairways are secured and dangerous grounds are blown away, it is well marked when the ship goes down. Developments are in the direction of an increasing number of types of ships, and several of the fairways along our coast are also being used by deep-sea special vessels and for the towing of oil installations. A good example here is the measure to extend the seal to Florø, which makes it possible to seal larger rigs to the base of Florø. In NTP, nearly 300 MIU should be used. kr annually for fishing ports and for local fishing port facilities. This is a very important factor in ensuring good infrastructure for the fishing industry and for maritime transport in the districts. This plan also provides for me to now build the world's first tunnel for ships, and it's set at 1 billion. kr to City Ship Tunnel. This is a major effort that will help to strengthen and secure maritime transport along our coasts in general, and for all those who travel on the City Sea in particular. The majority of the Committee stated that further quality assurance of the project, KS2, and planning were carried out with a view to the start of the project in the period from 2018. I might have boasted even more of the investment in maritime transport, but it may also be worth seeing what other central maritime actors report in their hearings. Norway’s Shipowners’ Association has high expectations of both the maritime strategy and the forecasting of the short sea shipping strategy, saying that expectations are reinforced by the government’s long-term commitment to a more offensive policy towards short sea shipping. NHO Maritime states that they are seeing a happy development, with increasing attention to measures that can strengthen maritime transport, and that NTP provides a positive signal of action to get more goods across from land to sea. One of the largest national grips in NTP is the ambition to bind the coast together through an upgraded and free E39 from Stavanger to Trondheim in 20 years. Several important and large projects for upgrading between the ferry sections of the E39 are part of the government's proposal, and the holiday settlement project Rogfast is now starting in the first part of the period. It is implemented KVU and KS1 for Hordfast, Nordfjorden, Storfjorden, Romsdalsfjorden and Halsafjorden. These areas have a very active and comprehensive business life that needs good transport years to maintain and further develop activity and that needs good labour supply. The economy is also dependent on different international economic cycles, and a larger commuting area will clearly strengthen these regions. Between Bergen and Stavanger, we find the largest bus and work area outside the Oslo area, and the realization of Hordfast will mean a coherent ferry-free path on this whole nutrient-rich and popular route. Similarly, Møreaksen will provide large savings in an active, nutrient-intensive area with a high potential for regional enlargement. Common to Hordfast and Møreaksen are high traffic numbers and the closure of several ferry connections. These will be important elements in the total funding of the projects. It is very good that the means of planning are now used when the concept options for the different fjord crossings are agreed. It is also very good that concrete projects at E39 are candidates for the new scheme for priority projects, which will provide more careful funding and more rational implementation. In addition, more effective progress could be made if state regulation were to be applied. The opposition calls for the Storting to adopt the concept of several of the fjord crossings today. Of course, the government doesn't have to let these decisions go for too long, but I would like to point out that it is important to have proper quality assurance on such a large project. I would also like to remind you that the plan applies from 2014, so we have a little time. Planning is not yet the basis for determining the order of the other fjord crossings following Rogfast. However, I would like to point out that Hordfast, Nordfjorden and Møreaksen have to be planned for start-up clearance at the next roll-out of the plan, and that the plant start for these can then take place in the period from 2018. In committee hearings, we have received central input from several nation-wide organisations in the direction that the idea of ferry-free coastal lineage must be dropped, and that we can manage these ferries. But for us who live by the coast, it would be to be against the ferry-free coastal line as if we were to lie on the ceiling and be against the stairs. The NTP submitted for 2014-2023 is a good plan, and the ferries-free coastal lineway is one of the most important elements of the plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1666	The South is Norway’s second largest exporter of industrial products and one of Norway’s most important industrial clusters. The South is also a very popular destination for Norwegian summer tourists from the Oslo area and the rest of the country. Road is important. International experts from Cambridge Systematics have estimated that Norway can make $3 and $49 for each krone invested in the Norwegian highways. The main road E18/E39 Oslo–Kristiansand–Stavanger is among the most important roads in Norway. This means that transport investment is very profitable compared to some of the alternative investments of the oil fund. According to a report from Oslo Economics, the government has miscalculated the traffic growth of E39 Kristiansand–Stavanger. The analysis shows that real traffic growth indicates that even four-field roads are needed. In line with what the experts say, the Progress Party will expand the entire E18/E39 as a continuous Class A motorway, with physical dividers and four-field road on E18 from the Oslo area to Kristiansand and on to Stavanger. Within the Oslo area itself there should be a minimum of six-field road, and the Progress Party also wants six-field road Sandnes-Stavanger. We want a comprehensive development of long sections of the road network in this corridor in order to reduce the number of accidents. Of course, E18 Ruggtvedt – Dørdal should be expanded with full 23 metres of road width, as required by the police, fire services, the State Road Service and the E18 action group. Tolls are completely unnecessary, given that the drivers contribute 55 billion dollars. NOK in car and fuel charges per year. People need a car, not high charges. The progress of the party is towards tolls as a financing solution and is adding SEK 97,5 billion. kr in the NTP to delete tolls on all of the government’s proposed projects. This comes at the top of our proposal in the annual effusion, linked to existing tolls. Many are sceptical about OPS solutions, but the advantage of OPS solutions is that when projects are fully financed by the State and when operations and maintenance for 25 years are also included, it is the contractors who have to pay for any delete job during the deployment phase through increased maintenance costs. For the country, this means that road projects are being built more quickly and that it is in the interests of the contractor to build well in order to keep operating and maintenance costs down. East Agder has, to the delight of the entire population, entered the E18-traseen Arendal-Tvedestrand. In the NTP floor proposal, 300 million were added. kr in planning funds for the project E18 between Arendal and Tvedestrand. This amount was reduced to 150 million. NOK when NTP for 2014-2023 was submitted. With 150 million. In addition, work could be accelerated on the new E18 in East-Agder, with a clear goal of starting construction in 2015. Before we get a continuous four-field road, it is important to do something about the narrow E18 driveway Winterkjær – Riskør and the road ramp in the opposite direction. This is a dangerous point, especially in the summer when there are many summer tourists with fully loaded cars. The progress party is also best in maritime transport. I am therefore very pleased that a joint committee is meeting on an important note on the route of administration from E18 to Arendal Harbour Eydehavn. This is an important port that focuses on offshore actors, and thereby is absolutely essential to our food cluster. At Arendal Airport, Gold Button, they are working on expanding the runway so that the airport can accommodate aeroplanes with up to 50 seats. The progress party is in favour of plans to extend the aerodrome further, as an alternative for charter operators and low-cost carriers. In that case, a new approach should be provided by the State during the first part of the planning period. The population in the South had high expectations for NTP, but the disappointment was great when the plan was presented, and we saw that several important road projects had been missing or underfunded. Norway needs a new government after eight years of deprioritising important transport investment in the South.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1685	So far in the debate, much has been said about the proposal for a national transport plan for 2014-2023. The fact that the proposal involves the transport effort of time and a historic boost for both rail, road and infrastructure linked to port and coast, I believe that it is indisputable. Nor is it surprising that opposition parties overwhelm. But we've been showing for eight years that we're keeping what we promise, and fulfilling our transport plans, which is not true of our honourable opponents in the opposition – they have no good statistics to refer to in this respect. It's not enough to answer from the opposition that we have so much more money now. The economic level of their national transport plans was adapted to the economic reality of their government. However, they are unable to deliver. Many of the speeches in the debate have so far been about money, projects, funding, savings, achievement of objectives and new objectives. For us in the Workers' Party, road safety is one of the most important areas for achieving the objectives of – and setting new, ambitious objectives related to road safety. It's good with the ferry-free E39, it's good with InterCity, it's good with electrification of the Trander Railway and the Meråker Railway. Infrastructure should, of course, contribute to the enlargement of the regions, to the reduction of transport costs for business, and to people, both in major cities and elsewhere, to job and schooling. But the most important thing is that it should happen in a safe and secure way. In rail, aviation and maritime transport, the level of safety is already very high, but in road traffic we still have a lot to do before we are in the finish line – although we have incredibly good results to show. The zero vision – the vision of a future without fatal and severe damage to traffic – is an important leading star to have and underpin our thinking in the field of road safety. The red-green lots and the government have overfilled the current national transport plan in terms of money. It is important, but it is even more important that it is over-filled in road safety this year. There are even fewer killed and severely injured Norwegian roads now than was the stage objective of the current national transport plan. Although the number of 145 killed in 2012 is 145 too many, it's the lowest since 1950. That's 30 pst. lower than in 2005. In addition, traffic has increased by 12 pst. Yesterday came the European Transport Safety Council, ETSC, with its report on road safety in Europe in 2012, «Back on track to reach the EU 2020 Road Safety Target?» According to their figures, Norway is part of the Council road safety league and is at the end of 2012 no. 3 in Europe in traffic safety when we look at the number of deaths compared to the population — only shut down by Malta and the United Kingdom. We have both Sweden and Denmark behind us. When the number of deaths at the end of May was six lower than at the same time in 2012, we see that the positive trend continues. Now, when we're as far down in the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic as we have, it's ambitious to set a stage target of halving the number of fatalities and hard injuries in the planning period compared to the previous planning period. But the stage goal is set, and fortunately, I feel that there is a cross-political uprising on this goal. On the other hand, what that is not a cross-political agreement is how we are going to achieve the goal. I'll come back to that. We need to move on in the right direction in terms of road safety and further reduce the number of fatalities and injuries. That requires a lot of us who are politicians. This will require courageous decisions, which will not necessarily be considered positive. I would like to point out that the politicians who, at the end of the 1960s, adopted the directive on safety belts, which was introduced in 1971, were actually courageous politicians. They adopted a decision that was very controversial, of which there was considerable disagreement and which was not particularly popular — but which has proved to be one of the most important individual decisions that have a positive impact on road safety. There is no one today who believes that it was wrong. I believe that we will have several such belt cases that we will take a decision on. There may be alcolocks, speed barriers or other forms of new technology that will give us safer traffic. The question is whether the representatives in this Chamber will be as courageous as our former colleagues were at the end of the 1960s. The zero vision is based on a traffic system where the road system, the vehicle and the road user have to play on layers and where everyone has to do their part in the job for it to work. As politicians, we can be involved and influence cooperation – by helping to improve road users, better and safer vehicles and better and safer roads. We can also adopt measures that compensate for the failure of parts of the system to function optimally, or for not having to take the measures that we believe are necessary. I believe that in any case we cannot manage to build roads that take into account that road users are allowed to behave as they please. We need to be able to assume — or at least to implement measures to help — that road users generally hold the speed limits, use the seat belt and drive unattended. We here in the house are responsible for the roads, to grant money and to ensure that the money that we grant is spent in a way that provides the most possible road safety. However, we are also responsible for legislation and measures that give us safer and better road users – better driver training, traffic training and awareness-raising work in schools and kindergartens through framework plans and curricula and, what is introduced from the fall of, traffic as an electoral profession in high school. Many accidents are related to lack of driving ability, excessive speed or driving in a drug-induced condition. This means that we need to put in place measures to improve road users. For us, this is about action – from going to kindergarten, and until one is fully trained driver. That is why we need to focus all the time on: Is the traffic training in kindergartens and in the schoolwork good enough? In primary schools, we have learning objectives in traffic curricula, but do we achieve the learning goals? Is driving training good enough? What we can determine is that we have the world's best education for traffic instructors. We have chosen to have traffic teachers who are trained at the university level, and place great emphasis on pedagogics and road safety gains. No other Nordic country has gone that far. But what about the driver training — do we have a driver training that takes more account of the fact that it should be as cheap as possible instead of being as optimal as possible? Do we have a driver training that is equal to all personality types, regardless of how we are as human beings? When I talk to the traffic teacher training professionals at the Nord-Trøndelag High School, I get the following feedback on what can be done to improve driver training: we have to reintroduce the mandatory theoretical knowledge course, we have to make sure that it becomes more intensive training, and we have to make sure that we get a driver training adapted to the human being. These are signals that are important to take with them when improving driver training. We are also responsible for the speed limit policy. It shall comply with the zero vision concept. This is why it is important to signal a positive political attitude to the increasing use of so-called zero-vision speed limits, i.e. 30 km/h where there are many soft road users, and 70 km/h where there is a lot of traffic and no middle parts. As politicians, we have to stand up and defend this, because it's the body's tolerability that determines these speed limits, not how fast each one of us wants to drive, or how good the standard on the road seems to be. If road safety were most important to us, this would have been a good discussion. But I know it's going against the goal of prosperity, and that it probably won't be popular with the voters – but we know that it will work. If we had lowered the speed limits from 50 to 30 in densely built strips and from 80 to 70 where there are no pitfalls, and everyone had followed the speed limits, we would have killed over 100 fewer people each year – over 100. By comparison, estimates show that when we complete the construction of semi-trailers on all roads with traffic over 8 000 cars per day, we reduce the number of accidents with fatalities and heavy injuries by 35-40. When a parking lot is built on all roads with traffic over 6000 cars per day, we get a further reduction, with 15 fatalities or heavy injuries per year. The working party will build more mints. We are behind the proposals in the National Transport Plan, which go up to 400 km of two- and three-field roads for mid-traffic works. This comes in addition to 380 km of new four-field road, which together gives us 780 km of more road without meeting. The working party also agrees that the minimum objectives should be changed – as suggested by the Directorate of Road and the Ministry of Transport – in order to lower the requirement for the construction of mid pulleys from 8 000 to 6000 ÅDT. However, we also know that building a parking lot on all roads with over 6,000 cars per day and with a speed limit of more than 70 km/h roughly estimated will cost 300 billion kroner. kr. The progress party will use 1 billion. kr more in the year to build a mint. In other words, it will take 300 years before there is a pitfall on all Norwegian roads with ÅDT over 6000. Otherwise, we can go to the Right, which tries to be high and dark on the same theme, and which has its own road safety plan. They promise a mezzanine work on all the roads with ÅDT over 6000 by 2024. They stand with the Christian People's Party behind a proposal where they ask the government to do the construction of mints, but they don't deposit the 300 billion. kr to maintain its own road safety plan. The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, from the Progress Party said in his speech earlier today that Norway is being beaten apart and together by Sweden in terms of the number of kilometres of middle parts and the number of kilometres of motorways. Yes, but according to the European Transport Safety Council we beat Sweden in what is the most important thing, we beat the Swedes in road safety. We need a wide range of measures to achieve the ambitious stage goals of halving the number of fatalities and injuries in traffic – related to the road, road user and vehicle. We need brave politicians. Here are the clear political lines. I hope the voters will remember that fall. This is actually about life and death.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1727	I have to say that the previous posts were a little strange, not because of the subject matter – it is very important – but because when today's government builds a two-field highway, a mid pulley needs to be built. When the Progress Party will build a four-field motorway with separate lanes, a non-middle tractor is needed. That is the logic of this, and I hope the Workers' Party understands that a rather better way is to build roads with capacity than just building security measures on bad roads. In this debate I am very pleased that there is an increase in the appropriations for transport. That's where the government needs to be praised. But at the same time you wonder yourself when you give the impression that 508 billion. kr is a giant bet. Yes, there's a lot of money, but if you pull it out in the same ten-year period and see how much we're going to spend in the total state budget, you're talking about that we actually have 12,000–13,000 billion. NOK at disposal. Of that, this government thinks they're going to spend only 500 billion. kr – including VAT, which means that it includes taxes to the Treasury, which they spend on other things instead. The real budget is well under 500 billion. kr. The way one tries to trick the voters, we got in the previous post, where one says that one in money has overfilled the current transport plan. Yeah, in money, a delivery has a skull. The problem is that the systems are so inefficient that even when a person spends all that a law of money, there is still a project that should have been started, which has not yet been started. One thing that boasts about, is that you have used all the money, but not done the job. If I had sent my children to the store with a hundred kroner to buy 10 liters of milk and they come home with 2 liters of milk and have spent all the money, I will not give them praise. Then I asked what every day they spent the money on, which they were going to spend on road and rail. You have not delivered the goods, but have used up the money. One should rather sit down and look at the system. Have we organized this in a way that actually gives us what we pay for? Norwegian drivers do not. Then one must stop boasting that one will spend 508 billion kroner in the next decade. What one should boast of is the organization that makes us get more money than before, and that the level of ambition increases. When you're going to spend 500 of 13000 billion. kr, it's not very much to brag about. It's really just business as usual. The decline in infrastructure in Norway is about 800 billion. kr when you bring everything. Just on the way, it's 100 billion. kr. This government, on the other hand, is terribly concerned about boasting about how much money we have saved abroad. 4 300 B.C.E. We have saved kr abroad, among others. lends Denmark money to 1 pst. interest from the Norwegian Oil Fund. But we can't do anything about the delays in Norwegian infrastructure – or, by the way, we can, if we borrow money from abroad to set up toll stations to finance road projects. But these toll stations are borrowing money from abroad to 3.5 pst. interest, so where we could spend our own money and miss out on 1 pst. income from Denmark — that’s not enough to cover inflation even — today’s government forces us to borrow other people’s money at three and a half times higher interest rates. It's completely pointless that we run the country this way. The progress party will change this. We want to accelerate good road investment that provides a socio-economic profitability for the country. The organisation called Cambridge Systematics International was in Norway last year. They said that for every penny we invest in a better highway in this country, we get $3.5 back through increased economic growth and lower costs for business. It's a return – one gets three and a half times again it's an investor, and then we're sitting today and we're happy when we get one pst. interest per year from Denmark. It doesn't make any sense if we think about a generation perspective. In addition, thinking about the competitiveness of Norwegian business makes no sense. The Progress Party has proposed to the Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen that it would make sense before he became Minister of Finance, namely to establish a separate road company and a railway company and to provide them with equity so that they can carry out investments at a reasonable pace on the basis of market conditions. They do not have to deal with annual budget appropriations, as one has to do today. One escapes to sit and plan one and one little kilometer, one can think the whole distance and implement it at a reasonable pace. That's how we've organized our mains, through Statnett. That's how we've organized our airports, through Avinor. Why in all days does one choose to ignore that road and railway can be organized in the same way? Why is today's government sitting there saying that road and rail are just expenses, not investment? Road and rail are, to the most extent, an investment. Then the Minister of Transport comes and says that yes, but they have started project financing. The government's project funding does not allow for accelerated projects whose conditions are right. It's just a predictable allocation next year, but it's not accelerating anything and it's not changing the organization. That's what it's got to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1746	For the first time, we have a government that has overfilled two national transport plans. A lot has happened in road, rail and port since 2005. We've fulfilled years after year, and now we're going to follow up year after year. Transport has been and is a priority area, and we red-green have proven that we are to trust. But what about the opposition, how much can we trust them? If there is to be a new government with the Right and Advance Party, the Progress Party – at Bård Hoksrud – has promised to remove all toll stations and the Right Magic Formula OPS calls the same Hoksrud for ‘hole in the hat’. So they don't even agree on how to finance road development. On Wednesday 24 April, Røres then spokesperson for transport policy Øyvind Halleraker proudly stood next to Erna Solberg and presented the party's new transport plan and told us that 17 roads should be built with OPS. The roads are being realized faster, says Halleraker. We're taking the prize right away, says Erna Solberg. The question is who does Right mean by ‘we’: the country’s taxable road users, or the investors who, by OPS, see the possibility of private enrichment at the Community’s expense? For investors, OPS means guaranteed revenues for decades to come from the world's safest customer. Not surprising to investors and their lobbyists for public–private cooperation. With bad times across Europe, ensuring income from the world's richest welfare state will appear to be a very attractive exchange for professional profit hunters. Another element is that OPS investors receive large private dividends from the fund. It's already taken out 180 million. kr in dividends from the three projects with OPS on Norwegian roads that currently elevate as very successful projects. Maybe it's because of 120 million. is extracted from Sundt AS, which according to the Class struggle is among the private donors of the million gifts to the Right Party Box. Success and success - a project cracked by 1.2 billion. kr, and the contractors argued for a long time in court about who would take the bill. If I'm not completely misinformed, it also ended in bankruptcy. OPS came to Europe with Margaret Thatcher's party. The United Kingdom has tried the system that Right now launches as one of its new ideas, for over 20 years. Many projects have ended in scandals and billions of bills have gone to taxpayers. London's conservative mayor, Boris Johnson, pronounced in 2010: in other countries this is called looting, here it is called OPS. The British National Audit Office expresses concern that the public sector pays more than it should to the OPS investors. They have turned community schools, roads and hospitals into speculative objects. The shares of a OPS company are often sold after a few years. The annual return on such speculation has been on average 29 pst. – far above normal returns. The funds that are closed into private pockets are often exempt from taxation. About 75 pst. the transactions in the financial market for OPS projects are now made by large funds located in so-called tax havens. This is suction capitalism. With the help of politicians who sell in the OPS as something new, smart and effective, private banks, financial funds and major contractors will install gold-plated suction pipes in the community boxes. Of course, the funds in the Norwegian single fund are attractive as business opportunities. I like to pay taxes to finance effective joint solutions that make society better for most people, but I don't want to pay taxes to increase the profits of Health AS or foreign financial funds. Right will leave the funding of billions of projects to private companies that pay much higher interest than the State. So the community is going to pay the whole amount of the pay-off, not only the high interest we're going to bear, but also the profit of the private owners. The question is how much more expensive it will be. According to the Ministry of Transport, the Sotra connection, which has a cost estimate of 7 billion dollars, is going to be used. DKK, 2.5 billion kr more expensive with OPS with a amortisation period of 23 years than with an ordinary toll scheme, due to higher interest costs – 2,5 billion. kr lost, and that on only one of the 17 road projects where the Right will impose an extra billion bill on taxpayers. It's not small money that's at stake. When over 500 billion. kr must be invested in road construction over the coming decades, the additional costs for the taxpayers of OPS may be tens of billions, unless hundreds. Someone has said that this can seem too stupid to be true – but is it? Maybe it's about something as classic as private enrichment at the expense of the community. After all, the tax ticks that flow out of the country's OPS pockets do not disappear. Someone gets the money. Never so wrong that it's not good for anyone! And someone has private enrichment at the community's expense as a business idea. Right is a game for them. Another argument that the right-hand side uses is that you build so much faster. That's wrong. The joint project, which is now being built along Mjösa, is being built as quickly as the OPS project E39 in the South. Long-term, predictable funding and project organisations monitoring progress are needed for the fastest possible deployments. And that's exactly what's inside the NTP we're dealing with right now, so we don't need OPS to get this done at all. I've been following the public OPS debate for a while, and of what I've got, the Right is largely alone in believing that this is a good idea. Former Governor Svein Gedrem said in April 2010 as part of the explanation of the financial crisis: «Many countries allowed their expenditures to run in line with higher tax revenue. As banks, many countries also left out of the balance, inter alia through what is called public private cooperation in this country.» I have mentioned the problems in the United Kingdom. Neither has OPS been an unconditional success in Sweden. I refer to the construction of New Karolinska Solna, where the entire project is described as a scandal. The Right Sister Party in Sweden, the Moderates, and the Swedish Minister of Finance have stated clearly that they will not build any more on krita. The Minister of Finance believes that OPS is drastically costing the projects, and he would rather use the money to build more roads and railways. Here at home there is little support to pick up also in the daily press. I just want to give some examples. Today's Business has written in the leadership position that the Right has received ‘OPS on the brain’ and warns against excessive doses. The newspaper is mildly skeptical. The evening post writes, as the Bjørnface has been in the past: ‘as funding form, OPS is at best a tempting but risky experiment. This can easily lead to high capital costs being shifted to future generations and governments that will be tied up because we are unable to prioritise among the many good purposes of policy. In the short term, of course, it is provocative. The currant that can come later, it is not.’» The right is trying to appear to be less right-wing now than before, but at the same time they have put forward a proposal that is one of Norway's most comprehensive privatisation plans. Head of the Trade Union, Jan Davidsen, has previously stated: ‘OPS is just a new way of privatising. It is a measure for private participation to have the public budgets milked.» And he got – for some perhaps eye-catching – support for his view of Trygve Hegnar, who wrote in the financial newspaper: "We think, for once, that Davidsen has a point." The representative of Greece, in his contribution to TØI, stated that the report from there shows that OPS is becoming cheaper and provides better innovation. Let me refer you to something from the TØI report: ‘A hypothesis that OPS will also lead to major technical innovation has been little confirmed. Nor has the evaluation found that the pilot projects have made significant savings in construction costs. [[...]] OPS may involve projects becoming more expensive for the public than they would otherwise be. The OPS companies take over the construction cost liability, for which a certain risk premium has to be paid by the public. Lack of control of the risk in the projects may have led to higher premiums than is strictly necessary.» The working party is also committed to rapid and effective expansion and will have it as soon as possible, but we will not send unpaid bills to the next generation. We want the best way for the money, but not a policy where taxpayers have to pay a high interest rate and profits to private investors and OPS companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1808	I have to say I was a little surprised at the previous article. Yes, if private investors invest money or carry out a mission for the public, they usually make money on it. If the Workers' Party is against it, they're getting communism, then. But for every project that is put out to tender in Norway, it is actually a company that makes money on it – or it goes wrong! There's no difference between that and what the government is doing. There is no difference between OPS and that of the government. So just to the rhetorical question, who serves on this? Well, those who get a new way faster than they would otherwise have. The whole point of what we are doing today is trying to raise investment in infrastructure in Norway because we believe it will have a socio-economic impact. For us, it is important that we develop larger regions and larger labour markets, so that people can commute faster, and that both business and residents around the district of Norway have a more solid future. They're making sure we build the roads faster. Then it's important that we around the big cities make sure that we raise collective issues, that we make sure that people can get back to work faster and faster, and that it's easier to trigger more homes, so that housing prices get lower. One of the reasons we have proposed large urban packages and given a very clear and clear instruction that we should grant more in the years to come – 50 pst. the use of investments on collective solutions in major cities in the future is that we believe it has a socio-economic advantage. We also do it in some areas of models that make us build it faster. It's the cities that serve it. Then, of course, Norwegian business – Norwegian businesses – is getting lower costs when we reduce transport costs by building faster. They'll get the prize, too. That is what the term ‘social economy profitability’ refers to. When you have socio-economic, positive profitability in a project, it has effects for the Norwegian community. It gives more solid jobs, it gives better family life, and it gives greater growth in the Norwegian economy. That's why we need to build faster. OPS is one of the ways, but not the only one. I would like to say that in this setting there are many positive features of what has been seen between the four bourgeois parties, in finding solutions to organise a better model for road and rail development in the years to come in Norway. In fact, we need to build roads faster in our society, because if we're to create safe, profitable jobs in the years to come, transport costs have to go down. In one of the world's most expensive countries to produce in and where we all want to have good wages, we have to go through systematically where we have high costs. Transport is one of those areas. By investing more and building faster with faster methods, we realize safer jobs in the years to come. It is not least important in terms of regional development, because what is particularly important with Norway is that so much of the profitable business is also located in the districts. So much of the spine in our business is outside the central struts. In many other countries, the growth force around large cities is also greatest in economic enterprises. In Norway, we have many growth sites. One of the reasons why we need to give priority to expanding the E39 rapidly is not necessarily that people are going to drive from Kristiansand to Trondheim, but that individual projects on that route will trigger huge socio-economic gains because there are so large and profitable business and business environments there. Making them available to work without people having to move, because they have better communication, is important in the years to come. Then it's important that we get better functioning cities. We can always wonder how many more Nordics there are on how short a time, but the estimates are nevertheless that there are going to grow a lot around the four largest cities. That's why we've said that we want commitment, long-term cooperation with these cities, where the release of residential land and the development of infrastructure are seen in combination. We can complain that there are 22 opposition bodies, but we know that one of the main reasons for objecting is that there is no collective solution that allows new, large housing areas to be realised. With our model to do this in cooperation – not in conflict – with the cities, we will actually be able to realise safe, good and viable cities in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1825	I noticed that Solberg's representative was very surprised at the post before her. I was a little surprised at Solberg's posts, where she picks up alternatives to OPS and says it's communism. It just has to be there. I'm glad that NTP commits. This government has made NTP something quite different than what NTP has been before – something other than a wish list, actually a commitment document. We deliver, we follow up, we increase steadily. I guess there were a few people who thought we were going to increase by 50 pst. on the NTP we're discussing today, but we are. Spontaneous reactions from, among others: The N.H.O. was that this was a historic promise. Of course, we end up in the Working Party. The debate here today has shown us that there are many challenges, not among us red-green, but on the other side. There are many unanswered questions to which it might have been possible to get answers, not to us as political opponents, but perhaps to the voters. They need some preparation – I assume – before the election campaign. Is there still going to be tolls – if there were to be a civil majority government, I hope and don't think so, will there still be tolls? That's one question. Should a take-up OPS funding be used and what are the consequences? That's another question. How much money is going to spend on this sector in total? That's a question. Is it the Progress Party nearly 1 000 billion? kr, or is it the numbers of the other lots, roughly at the red-green level? Should a manager conduct a responsible economic policy within the framework of the action rule, or should one not? Does a person intend to deal with the climate agreement? I think the voters deserve answers to those questions. I also think that the voters deserve answers as to whether the other parties will participate in the eleventh policy of the Progress Party in this area. I also find it interesting to hear what the Right, Left and Christian People's Party says about the Party's surrender policy. ‘It’s going to trick people into thinking that we’re going to end up near the sums proposed by the Progress Party.’ That's what Knut Arild Hareide says in the Christian People's Party to the Newspaper on June 11. I could continue to record Tenden's statements and Greece's comments, but they have been duly commented on earlier today. So the Progress Party says that this is within a responsible financial framework. But politics doesn't work so that you can take a sector separately. Politics works in one whole. The progress party shall also have a tax cut of up to 100 billion. NOK and spend a lot of money in other areas. In fact, politics is not linked, and it puts the economy at risk. Another interesting point is the Right OPS IV, in particular as a method of financing. Here it is very interesting that the Progress Party and the representative Hoksrud call tolls for highway robbery, skinning, extortion, etc. But what are the Right OPS solutions? What will be the result of extra tolls? Will not there be skinning, highway robbery, extortion, etc. by the drivers? Wouldn't that lead to an even higher toll bill for the drivers? In the case of OPS, we are in fact fully in agreement with the representative of Hoksrud, who says that OPS is a soft haven in terms of the method of financing for the construction of, inter alia. and that there is irresponsible waste of taxpayers' and Community funds. I find it strange that such an economically responsible – apparently – party as the Right can be so irresponsible in terms of the use of the funds of the car lists, taxpayers and the community. I actually think today's business is right, the right has got the 'OPS on the brain'.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1849	I notice that there is obviously a frustration in the Workers' Party when you spend your entire speaking time attacking the Right rather than talking about your own policies. Or perhaps one should ask the question: What is the result of the Workers’ Party’s falling credibility in social policy, while the Right’s credibility – and trust – increases? I believe an important reason why the Right has high credibility in the transport policy is that we want to invest more of our oil wealth in good infrastructure – both road and public transport. And I think it's related to the fact that the Right has a pragmatic attitude and an opening to think about new where the red-greens appear to be quite dogmatic defenders of the past. Norway is in a very unique situation with its large oil wealth – it commits. It thus obliges us to ensure that oil wealth benefits not only today's generation but also future generations. It is therefore important that there is a broad political consensus on both the rule of action and the state pension fund abroad. The challenge of this Bigholding is that in recent years the red-green parties have moved away from another central consensus, namely that the oil money we spend on the Norwegian economy was to be invested in infrastructure, knowledge, research and growth-promoting tax reliefs. It's important, because it's easy to use oil money to avoid necessary, but painful change. It is easy to use oil money to lubricate budgets and to grant a little extra in most areas. But if we are to make sure that we have a growth and competitive business that can finance well-being for decades to come, it is absolutely crucial how we spend the money. That is why the Right has higher ambitions, and we are concerned that we should invest more in infrastructure, both on the road and in public transport. Then I have to say that I am surprised at how dogmatically especially the Workers' Party is in defense of the old way of building roads, and that there is so little openness to new solutions. OPS is not a sedentary, sedentary OPS. OPS has both advantages and disadvantages. But we think OPS is a practical solution to an actual problem. There is one way to insure taxpayers against the bill of large exceedances that we have seen on old-fashioned projects, and that is a good way to see planning, development and operation in maintenance. I hear you're pulling out the Sotra connection, but what comes out of the calculator depends on what you put in. If you don't look at the maintenance costs, if you don't look at the value of building up the roads faster, if you don't look at the expected cost excesses on public projects, you get calculations as presented by the red-green ones. We believe that public–private cooperation is one important development method, and I am pleased that all four civil parties in the perspective announcement state that OPS is a good development method to see planning, construction and operation in maintenance, and to have the roads built faster. Then it is important that we be able to see infrastructure, housing development and industrial development in the context. For too many years, the municipalities have pointed upwards, and from state and state they have pointed downwards. For the counties and the state is responsible for infrastructure, while the municipalities are responsible for housing. I am pleased that the bourgeois parties are now going to show implementation in the development of the Fornebuban. It's an important project. When building a town of the size of Lillehammer out on Fornebu, it is absolutely necessary to get the infrastructure in place. I am pleased that the Right and the other bourgeois parties are now lifting up the E18 West Corridor, where we see the project in context, and where we do not build the project in a clandestine and divided way, as we have done in the past, which means that the projects are both more expensive and more difficult to implement. We have key challenges ahead of us. There is a need for higher investment, but also for innovation to solve the major challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1873	Case No. 10 has his own case rapporteur – he's standing here. The case concerns Document 8:113 S. In this debate, we are dealing with the Innst. 397 S on the proposal for the necessary racial protection of E16 between Bergen and Voss. It is a proposal from a number of representatives in the Progress Party. All lots with the exception of the Advance Party refer to the treatment of the national transport plan. E16 between Bergen and Voss was closed for 12 days after race at the Stanghelle Tunnel in April this year. On 13 May, just under a month later, a new breed passed, this time between Bolstadøyri and Evanger – near an area that was racially protected for approx. Two years ago. Over recent years, there have been a number of races, but fortunately without damage or loss of life. However, the uncertainty for users is high and the cost implications of closed roads are also high. Number generated by NRK Hordaland shows that in the period from 2003 to May 2013 201 breeds of E16 have passed between Bergen and Voss – 201 breeds! The Progress Party believes that the road appears to be a path in which the risk of race is seriously underestimated. In addition, the E16 between Bergen and Voss is a road dangerous for traffic. In a report mentioned in the Official Journal of Bergen in April this year, the State Road Administration itself states that the standard on the road between Arna and Voss is “a sea behind today’s requirements”. The road has a lot of traffic in relation to the capacity for which it was originally built. The Road Service says, among other things: that there are few sections suitable for passing between Arna and Voss and that unfortunately the road is curved and with sharp curves. This has resulted in a high number of fatal accidents and a number of serious road accidents. We have noted the clear conclusion of the state road system: ‘The safety of traffic and all races means that we are likely to have to put ourselves in a completely new path.’ Until new roads are built between Bergen and Voss, extensive race protection and road safety are necessary on this route. As far as possible, this work should be coordinated. We have noted the comments of the Minister of Transport on the proposal made in a letter of 23 May this year, and we believe that that response underpins the need for decisions ensuring the introduction of funds for necessary racial protection from 2013 onwards, as well as in the ordinary budget for 2014 and in the first part of the Action Plan, 2014 to 2017. I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party in the Inner East. 397 S. The Progress Party has itself followed up this proposal on extra means of racial protection on roads in the context of the revised budget, which will be discussed next Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1900	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1903	This is a big day, and yet another historic boost in the transport sector, which the red-green government has stood for. I think the representative Anne Marit Bjørnfacen described the political situation in an excellent way, and not least the disagreement that exists about, among other things. the use of money between the Right and the Advance Party. And with the Christian People's Party and the Left in any new government, chaos will be accomplished. It will, in my opinion, be able to put part of the transport projects into free play. I'm just warning you the strongest. Transport is important for business, tourism and not least for settlements. Creating good housing and labour market regions is particularly important for, among other things, development. districts. Today there is a great day for future development and value creation in Helgeland. A total amount of money stands behind the fact that, for the first time in Norwegian history, as I know, in almost 40 years, a new regional airport will be built – I repeat: new regional airport in Mo in Rana, Helgeland. Better and forward-looking air services will benefit the whole region. Therefore, the corner stone companies in eight municipalities in Helgeland have cooperated over six years and spent a total of 25 million. kr at the level work of a very well-implemented project with professional advice from Avinor. The county council in Nordland also supports the case in a cross-political context. Now it's about progress, coming from plane to building. Business is impatient. They will exploit the potential for value creation in both farming, fisheries, metal and the supply industry to oil and gas operators. Then the infrastructure has to be in place. It is also about tourism and housing. It's about making arrangements to build, among other things. Helgeland of the future. I'm also very pleased with what's written in the NTP on the Nordlandsbahn overall, and especially the attention that industry and Rana Gruber have received, as the heaviest user of the Nordlandsbahn. The company is a significant transporter of ore on the Nordlandsbanen, from the mine at Ørtfjellmoen on Storforshei and to the construction plant in Vika in Mo in Rana, a distance of approx. 35 km. Investment – purchase of large ore wagons – is required. In addition, major investments are also to be made on the roadside of Helgeland and otherwise in the Nordic region. I look forward to that. It's a great upgrade that happens on the transport side on Helgeland, in Northernland and in the rest of the country. This government can stand up for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1920	The E39 project is very important and will be an important route along the coast of the West through the ferries-free project, of which there is broad agreement. The goal is to realize this important project. When the government presented the proposal on the free E39, the well-laden coast met, but it stopped quickly when the level of ambition showed that it was going to take 20 years, and that the funding was a so-called fissure layer. On my visits around the main maritime businesses along the coast, 20 years were characterized as far too long. One should be able to do this in half an hour, was their conclusion. In More and Romesdal, the holiday settlement project shows great social benefits through an enlarged working and bus region. The Occurrence relationship is a good example of this. The project was paid down in record time, it binds the municipalities of South Sunnmøre and strengthens the important maritime cluster there. It is very disappointing that today's NTP does not give a clear signal on the road further north towards Ålesund through the Havast holiday settlement project. Now that we have the way from Stryn to Sunnmøre through Kvivsvägen, further through the Eiksund connection, this plan should show a committed business life that the road continues through Hafast towards Ålesund, and by doing so combines the important maritime 'cluster' on Sunnmøre and on the North-West – not least to ensure the continuation of project planning for the decisive, important food, transport and development project Hafast. So some words about the maintenance run, like in More and Romesdal, are between 5 and 6 billion. kr, and is a huge problem in terms of road safety and further development of the road network. With today's maintenance proposal, you can't stop this due, so when this NTP is presented as the bet of the times, it comes in a strange light when the reality is that the due is accelerating. ‘Times’ are spent spending on users and calling them a spice layer — a spice layer where the state part becomes smaller and smaller year by year, and is nothing more than a state highway robbery. All three major cities in the state, Ålesund, Molde and Kristiansund, need new access routes to the centre. Guess how these are thought to be funded? When we now know that the government constellation took out the joint comment on the gateway to Ålesund, it stands out as a punishment – punishment for not taking more or less the entire bill through highway robbery. The party's commitment to transport and infrastructure, which the other parties characterise as unrealistic, shows that we have a party on both the socialist and the bourgeois sides that does not believe in either themselves or the business world. Why shouldn't we be able to do this, when Nordic neighbours and European countries can do it? It's because these parties have built up a bureaucracy that causes one to become an action member already in the planning phase, and stops all progress. But the Progress Party shows – literally – way again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1935	The right-hand movement fraction has presented its right-hand policy in an excellent way. I want to start from another document that we dealt with here in the hall a few days ago. It was the government’s message entitled ‘Take All Norway in Use’, popularly called the District and Regional Communication. Anyone who spoke in that case pointed to transport as perhaps the most important means of action, and we from the Right pointed to how infrastructure measures and investment in the road and the road contribute to mobility, growth and development — regional, local and national. For example, on April 30, this year, the Triangle Connection of the E39 was disbursed, three years earlier. The bombs have been removed. It has contributed to a fantastic growth and development in the region of Sunnhordland and Haugaland, and it will only continue now that the tolls have ceased and the traffic on the E39 is free. The next major project at E39 is Hordfast, ferry-free connection between Sunnhordland and Bergen. Back to regional policy. This project is described as Norway's most profitable project. The state road safety services and their analysts, also externally, have estimated 21 billion. Distinguished social benefits of this project. Victor Norman goes even further. He's based on a clustering and commuting theory and describes an even more favourable profitability -- actually plus 10 billion. kr per year for ferry-free journeys throughout the Stavanger–Bergen route. This is really district and regional policy as monks. Then there is a fact that has not come out so well in the debate, namely that in the vote I see that the Right Party and the Advance Party have agreed to a trajectory solution in the Hordfast project, this new holiday-free solution between Sunnhordland and Bergen. It's very happy, because the faster you get this social benefits and realize this project, the faster the whole society benefits from it, not just this region, not just the West, but actually the whole country. It would then be very happy if during this debate – or perhaps quite soon – we could know what the government thinks about how to continue this path.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1948	It's a big day today, because my mother will be 75 years old. And not enough: the Road Traffic Act is 48. And we're going to adopt a historic national transport plan. We're going to spend 508 billion. I'll spend the next ten years. That's a lot of money. Most of us are very concerned about important projects in our own district when NTP is being discussed. That's the way it should be. But it is also important to take into account that the reason why we spend so much money on transportation is that we want to improve the accessibility and make the distances between the different parts of our country shorter. I'm sure it'll be faster to go to the Honey Foetal for people in Gran when the new E16 over the Olimb Height is over. But it doesn't just get shorter; it also gets much safer for those who travel on and along the road. Traffic safety is important, but it's also the food soil. I'm glad that soil protection in future projects is strengthened by this government. At the same time, I record that many of the projects that we are adopting today will take food soil, but there are projects that have been adopted locally many, many years ago, and before this government was given stronger soil protection. I will admit that I have been among those who have had great expectations of this NTP. My expectations have almost been met. In Uppland, E6 will be built on a continuous basis if there is still a red-green government. We're building Rv. 4 over Hadeland, and we're building E16 through Valdres – and we're getting more into county roads. Then I could have been more interested in Gjøvikbanen, but I'm glad that the red-greens in the committee say that the Gjøvikbanen should be reviewed ‘in the set-up of the KVU work on collective transport capacity in the Oslo area as the basis for the next NTP’. It must mean that the investigation of the future trajectory, possible double tracks, crossing tracks and other measures, should already be initiated at the start of work on new NTP, and that is just over Christmas. The red-green government shows that we are following up on NTP by granting the money we have promised. On the other hand, it is impossible to see what kind of transport policy we get with a blue-blue-green-yellow government. The progress party lives in its own world and spends money on a low shoe. They say they should get rid of tolls, but they cannot guarantee that there will be no tolls with them in government. The right shall initiate OPS projects and shall forward the bill to the next generation. So far in the debate, there is only one thing that is clear if there is going to be another government, and it is that it is completely unclear which projects will be built at what time and with what funding, with a blue government that we do not know who to participate in.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1963	It has been interesting to follow the debate, and there has been a lot of fear in terms of what can happen – and the uncertainty about it. Then I often think that attack is the best defense. But one thing is to be willing to spend more money; another thing is to spend money smarter and ready to build faster. I represent a part of the country that has seen it as the red-green scares with it. I've seen it in practice, and I'm not scared at all, on the contrary. E18 Grimstad–Kristiansand was built faster. It was more efficient, it was cheaper, and it's a road that we can be proud of. The maintenance is paid or included in the contracts for a long time to come, and we are sure that it will be a good path. But this way is the last way Southland has got, and this is how there have been no major projects since Bondevik. It's really a rush to get back a Bondevik government, a center-right government. In the arrangement of the government, which is adopted today, one pushes the big projects forward. In the case of E18 Tvedestrand-Arendal, which is one of the most important projects for my county, questions are asked about whether you can start as early as you wish. It is likely to be in 2016, perhaps in 2017, among others. Because the government will cut 150 million. kr compared to the floors proposed. In the case of rv. 9 and, unfortunately, also E39, it is little that binds. However, the government parties and the fraction of the committee must have boasted of lifting up and entering the investigation in relation to the interconnection of the Southern Railway and the Westfold Railway. It is important that the project is mentioned and lifted. Hopefully that's something that a new government is going to be able to follow closely. But in the alternative of the Christian People's Party, we are clear on what priority we want. What's happy is that for our part of the country, the opposition stands united on the priorities. That means that we get a new government, the wishes of the Christian People's Party will also be adopted. We will lift the E18, Tvedestrand–Arendal and will clearly say that it will be built in 2015. We are also clear that we will use the same good tool that worked well between Grimstad and Kristiansand, also there, namely OPS. But we think more, because we need visions for what is close, and that we're going to build now, and also for the next project. That's why we say we want four-field roads and new roads from Oslo to Lindesnes by 2023. It's an important note that the whole opposition stands together about, and that will mean a lot to my part of the country. We also say that we want yellow stripe to the Hovden on rv. 9, which means a lot to the district and to business development. Now I don't have much time, but I just want to mention that we're lifting up the county roads where the government has removed the interest compensation scheme. Now we've brought it back in again, and we want 10 billion. extra kr to the county roads. It also means a lot to the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1982	I agree with the representative Tingelstad Wøien that this is a great day – many people have birthdays. My daughter is 14 today. She is absolutely under conversion, but I think – with all due respect – that she is concerned with a little bit different from what we are at the moment, at least in this debate. There's no doubt that the promise you're dealing with today in the Storting is a vital boost for most of us, so we can say hello in many ways. I see it in my own county, Hedmark, where we are about to get really fast implementation of the E6 and the train tread along Mjøsa. We get a good way to Kongswinger, and we have a width extension and standard improvement on rv. 3rd@item: inlistbox We have at all great visions of how to strengthen important parts of our country. Rv. 3 and Rv. 25 who are now inside this plan will be greeted with joy. I believe that many of the projects that the government has been running over the last few years have proved to be full of bets. You spend a lot of oil money on transportation, and you are now able to make faster progress in the projects. That's very good. That is why when I hear the opposition in today's debate, I get noticed. At the same time as the demand for implementing power – especially from the Right – we see an opposition that is bridging on essential points as to how the transport sector should continue to operate in the future, as far as the issue of financing is concerned, OPS. I heard the representative of Sønsterud's good posts on OPS instead, and there's something wondering I hear the Right Leader describe that the option for those who may be against OPS is communism. There are some of us who believe – and we have definitely seen that – that there is a middle between Communism and OPS, and it's worth betting on. In addition, the proposals now in place are to use more of the surplus in the oil and petroleum sectors, all of which are strictly agreed upon when you see the huge resources to be used. We're going to spend more of society's resources, and something will have to come from the profits of the oil fund. The interesting thing in that discussion is the discrepancy or the difference between the Right and the Advance Party. If you want to do this within the rule of action, it means that you need to give priority, and that you need to give priority to other areas of society's important activities, or you can choose the simple path where you say that the Progress Party: just use more than the rule of action. This could very much mean putting other sizes at risk, such as interest, purchasing power or selling goods abroad. But this is all a big day, and the government has done a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e1995	Congratulations on the day – perhaps in a double sense to the case rapporteur, Anne Marit Bjørnfacen, who has a birthday today. Transport services are essential for business and housing throughout our long-term country. I think there is good reason to enjoy a national transport plan which is historically high and which shows that the government will use the whole country. This should also make the opposition rejoice. I notice that there is a debate going on that the money for transportation should be spent where there are a lot of people, and to a lesser extent in the districts. But we can't just count heads and ignore value creation and distances. I am satisfied that there is a lot of effort on the big roads, but I want to focus as strongly as I can on the routes of administration. That is why I would also like to welcome the additional means of maintaining the county road network. Troms has for a long time been hanging behind in the total road allocations, and the county also needs to repair its extensive county road network. I am also concerned that viable island communities should be able to invest in nutrient development and housing. Timely ferry services are then necessary and continental connections can be established where possible. The Bjarkøy link and the Langsund link in Troms are good examples of connections that should have had their continental connections for the longest time. In such cases, it must be wrong to use public funds for short-term maintenance, where the proper certainty is that fixed-term fixed-term connections are correct. This is undoubtedly a bet with a much greater effect and duration, which the counties in question need to be stimulated to get in place. Nor are these solutions designed to weaken total maintenance in the counties but to ensure future value creation and settlement in viable island communities. I would also like to commend the efforts made in the national transport plan on maritime traffic. If we are to achieve the objectives of getting more goods from road to sea, the infrastructure must be in place with ports and traffic controllers and with the necessary access routes. In this context, I am also pleased that the national project City Ship Tunnel has joined the NTP. If more of the transport is to proceed by sea, both consignors and consignees must be sure that the goods are properly treated on the journey.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2012	Norway appears to be a different country compared to many of our European neighbours. Unlike those struggling with the financial crisis and high unemployment, we in Norway have both a high level of activity and a high level of employment. This means, among other things: access to skilled labour is a bottleneck for many cities and regions. In order to meet this need, infrastructure is a fundamental prerequisite. Roads, railways and other means of transport are essential for the opening up of large housing and labour market regions, which form the basis for exploiting the growth potential and potential image of Norway and the Norwegian economy. I am pleased that a unanimous Committee on Transport acknowledges that the E39 route between Kristiansand and Stavanger links large housing and labour markets, and that an improvement in the availability here could mean a great deal to some Western Agder municipalities struggling with low-scores on national living conditions statistics, while at the same time the Kristiansand and Stavanger regions are in great need of more labour and competence. I am not equally satisfied with the fact that the government parties, the Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left do not support the Right and Christian People's Party in that it should be a narrow four-field road with middle parts from Stavanger to Kristiansand, and that the first part from Søgne to Lvgal must also be built in this quality. There is reason to stress that the State Road Service has underestimated the traffic development of E39 Kristiansand–Stavanger and that the traffic growth indicates that the new E39 between Mandal and Ålgård could be undersized after a few years if not built as a quadruple road. This is supported by the analysis by Oslo Economics in September 2012, where they presented a report on the success safety of traffic forecasts. There is a lot of traffic and a lot of heavy transport between Stavanger and Kristiansand. From a road safety point of view, it is important that we build four fields and that we get middle parts on this whole route. I am glad that at least the Right Party and the Christian People's Party point out that there are some bottlenecks that need to be remedied as soon as possible, namely the Viking Seeds and the Runarscaret. The Stavanger region has major challenges as a region of growth, and the focus on double-tracking between Stavanger and Egersund, i.e. the Jærbanen, is an important step towards expanding an efficient housing and labour market and addressing the large population growth experienced by the county. It is positive that the majority of the Committee considers that it is timely for the planning of the development of Sandnes-Egersund to be undertaken as proposed by the NTP. The fact that the government will now investigate and quality assurance the project double tracks up to Egersund is a positive signal and is seen as the first important step towards realization. The right ambition is that double tracks should be built to Egersund. In addition, I am pleased that in any case the opposition parties have a common remark that the razed bottleneck through the Drangsdalen on the Sørlandsbanen should be investigated as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2027	In the spring, the Right-People stood at the railway stations in Westfold and distributed flyers, demanding – and promising – that the Right should expand the entire InterCity triangle by 2024. Later, the Right has come up with different thoughts, and the Right People have become a little bit more spooky in the goal. The expansion target has been adjusted to the realizable and, like the government parties, it is hardly possible to complete the double-track development of Lillehammer, Halden and Skien before 2030. Now, right-wing people are going around telling the voters that right-wing rail ambitions are more binding than that of the government, that is, the right-wing road party, which has no more money to spend on rail than the government parties, is now trying to imagine to the voters that they have suddenly got strong feelings for the railway, and this is a party that has been able to push their railway commitments by seven years in the course of some spring months. I remember very well when we took the train through Vestfold in the 2005 election campaign and promised 1 billion. kr more to road and track, respectively. We promised that we would spend 5 billion in the ten-year period until 2015. kr at Vestfoldbanen. The right-hand side characterized this as a surrender. We're using 12-13 billion. kr during the period. In the 2009 election campaign, we also went through Vestfold and promised 10 billion. kr more on the road and track every year. We've kept what we promised, and it's shown in Westfold, a state that reminds us most of a continuous construction site. We're looking at the end of the construction of E18 through the county, and it's speeding up the development of the railway. But it takes time and costs money to build the railway. The next major tasks on the Vestfold track are the double track through Horten, which unfortunately has evolved into a controversial project, and the one-track route from Drammen to Kobbervikdalen, which is a considerable bottleneck today. They will be resolved in the coming planning period, subject to good planning processes and timely decisions. Vestfold is in the lucky position that we have got money to build every metre of railway that is planned. Yes, I believe that our advantage has just been more elaborate plans and projects. Therefore, the pace of planning and future planning capacity is crucial for the continuation. My fear is that local disagreement, ambiguity and decision-making will delay the planning processes. We have a lot of experience with that in our county. Therefore, the Vestfold Workers’ Party has requested a state plan for the Nykirke-Barkåker route, Horten, and for the whole route between Tønsberg and Larvik, in order to prevent local disagreements from delaying the facilities, and to ensure coherent planning of the railway system throughout the county.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2041	National Transport Plan 2014-2023 is a management document for infrastructure in the transport sector. The weakness of NTP is that the projects are listed only. NTP has no funds to implement the projects. If the framework of this NTP is followed up as the government wishes, the completion of the main roads between Oslo and Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim will take an estimated 60-70 years. Disagreement on funding is great. It is only the Progress Party that opposes the use of toll stations, and this is justified by the fact that the drivers already pay up to 60 billion annually. kr in various taxes and taxes. The government pledges tolls as a substantial part of the investment costs. The progress party wants to spend 455 billion. kr more during the NTP period than the government. The figure comes from the Statistical Central Bureau report Press effects in the Norwegian economy of increased transport investment. This report shows that there is room for investing a total of 45.5 billion. kr more per year without endangering the Norwegian economy. The SSB report is more or less rejected by all other political parties. Numbers from the SSB are often used by Prime Minister Stoltenberg as a witness of truth. The SSB's claim that the economy is up to 45.5 billion. in the case of annual investments in infrastructure, however, it is not taken seriously. The Progress Party agrees with the Right that OPS in infrastructure construction is good for the construction and maintenance of projects and must be done by the performing contractor. Disagreement arises when the Right also wants the contractor to provide development funds. Right wants to build infrastructure and take the bills on payments over 25 years. The right model leaves to future generations to pay for the valid. This is a very insecure way of financing large expansions. The value of the oil fund may, during the period of the payments, be reduced to half. The Progress Party will pay for the projects when they are built. Today, funds are lent to Denmark for 1 pst. interest, it must also be possible to use the combined interest rate for Norwegian projects. Former Group Economist of DNB, Nils Terje Furunes, once answered questions as to whether it would make sense for contractors to obtain funding for OPS projects. The answer was, of course, no. Furunes suggested that only poor countries without money on book had to borrow to expand. It is therefore strange that the Right is holding on to this. The Luxembourg TV3 programme strongly warns against purchasing payments for individuals. That principle, of course, also applies to the state. Financing under the OPS model can therefore be very expensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2052	The red-green plural from 2005 has developed the welfare state in a number of areas, but I think that the reverse operation with a focus on transportation that we have done is one of the most important things. Transport was so low-priority that we made a big drag, but now we see asphalt machines and works on the road and on the track everywhere. There's a formidable bet, and more is going to be. That just shows the transport plan we are now discussing for the next ten years. It's almost pathetic when Right and others of the opposition party are now complaining that it doesn't happen enough, and promises so much more if they win the election. We've heard the same thing before, but when they put in government, they couldn't even implement their own little ambitious transport plan. Yeah, the plan wasn't worth the paper he was writing on. So now they're going to build so much more and borrow money from private people, what's called public-private cooperation, OPS, money that the state and drivers have to pay back with high interest rates. This is poorer funding, which is much more expensive for the state than if the state, which has enough money, permits what is needed. We have gained experience with three of these OPS projects, so we know how it will tie up the budgets for decades to come. Right throws blues in the eye of people. At the same time, they will cooperate with the Progress Party, which will devote tens of billions to removing trees in the country. However, the right promises that the rule of action and the financial framework will be maintained. In order for the Progress Party to have its will, there will be no more money for anything but the removal of a bomb. So right's rhetoric doesn't hang out. A couple of weeks ago, there was an opening of the first construction steps on E6 between Ringebu South and Otta. The road project has been planned for 40 years, but it was only now, during this period of government, that we got an impact on this. This is an example of the force of action and implementation we have with the red-green plural. Others may want to shout and try to take credit for what is being done, criticise and legislate, but it's not working. Right has been possible, but got nothing done. The clear fact is that we never have in my county, Uppland, come out as well as in the current transport plan. We can only see what's going on and what's going to happen, for example. E6, rv. 4 and on the railway. I'm not going to calculate all the projects, but this is going to be a testimonial to me that we've never had as great an impact as we've had in Oppland. Then I would like to stress how important it is that the Stortinget now led to the intercity expansion, including the expansion towards Lillehammer, to be completed in 2030. There are some of these clarifications that can be clearly seen in the setting inside the current transport plan frame.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2065	One cannot fail to note how the Progress Party in today's debate is trying to communicate that the development of infrastructure is a piecemeal layer in which we are all going to contribute in solidarity. But let us see how the Progress Party argues in other policy areas, such as: culture, all user-funded, costing what it will cost. Therefore, they also remove billions from the cultural budget. But when we talk about road, they suddenly deviate from this principle. Then the state has to pay everything, the users as much as possible, and the state is all of us. They mean that those who are least of all using the roads, e.g. those living in nursing homes who pay their taxes to the community, in solidarity with the car owners, shall contribute to the fissure layer. This doesn't sound good to me, but I note that the Progress Party thinks it's okay for her grandmother to have to pay her share through her tax card in order for the drivers to get away. I took the floor not to talk about intercity trains or double tracks, but on the other hand about the many important and good measures for my part of the country and my home country that are in today's transport plan. For us, roads and tunnels, ports and fairways and airports are very important infrastructure measures. The NTP that we are adopting today has taken this on board. Many good projects now face a realization and also a completion. The Board of the Progress Party Hoksrud attempts to make a point in the debate that road development in Norway is taking place piece by piece and piece by piece. That's wrong. E6 west of Alta is an example of a road that has had and still has a continuity of development. Whole thinking has been a key element in the debate. Therefore, as Finnmarking and all-outing, I am very pleased with the comment that asks for an investigation to be carried out in the near future on how mountain masses in the context of the deployment of E6 can be used as fillers for a possible extension of Alta airport. We're talking about savings of three-digit million if this is realized. The first step towards such realization is made through the decisions of the Stortinget today. Many small and large coastal communities depend on good ports and fairways. For this reason, Finnmark is cheering to devote considerable resources to improving the ability of our ports and traffic controllers to meet future challenges. Then we all understand that someone gets disappointed when their road, airport or tunnel project is not part of the projects realized in the first part of the NTP period. But if it's a comfort: the projects will be realized. In the meantime, there will be great activity along our roads and tunnels that have been financed – to the dismay of those who have to wait half an hour more because the ointment has just been fired, but at the same time to their joy that we will approach the day when the string will be cut. Back we get a safer and safer road, better ports and fairways and time-consuming airports, and that was a pleasure for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2089	I record that the government parties are very self-sufficient in their production of the NTP. The need for road development is much greater than the ambitions, and therefore the Progress Party believes that much more needs to be done, and that the development is too late. It is also a paradox that in Norway there is no distinction between money spent on operations and money spent on investment. Thus, the political majority do not have the capacity to distinguish between investment in sustainable values that will make business more efficient and competitive and secure the lives of drivers. The Progress Party will separate operations and investments through state infrastructure companies according to the Avinor and Statnet models. E134 over Haukeli connects areas with high population density and a competitive business that depend on good performance throughout the year. The road is also the shortest, fastest and safest east-west link and further to the continent. The clandestine expansion of the E134 to which it is added will devastate and delay the expansion. The progress party will have a motorway on E134 from Oslo to Bergen. This will benefit all users of the way. The Progress Party has provided funding in the alternative budget and NTP for the construction of E134 and new tunnels across Haukelifjell with state full funding, because the drivers have paid for the development through car and fuel charges. All lots with the exception of the Advance Party have prioritised a few national crowns to start work on E134 in the second part of the planning period. At the same time, they refer to the possibilities for speeding up construction by means of local policy decisions on tolls. This once again shows that local politicians are forced to take the initiative to ask the Grand Council to introduce tolls, which forces the drivers to pay twice for road development. I want to remind you that 40 pst. of the tolls goes to the collecting societies and to the payment of interest. It's not very effective, and the jam won't be much of a way of it either. It's obviously expensive to be rich in this country. The government parties and the Christian People's Party have supported Rommetveit's wish to have an assessment of extending E134 with an arm from Jøsendal in Odda and to Bergen. They will therefore be assessed with open eyes to link the European road network to an arm which is not suitable for heavy traffic today and which also requires ferry crossing over Hardangerfjorden. Whether the idea of weakening the importance of and training the development of E134 is the idea of Rommetwiss, the representative will answer for himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2108	The transport plan we are dealing with today is the third national transport plan I agree to process or implement. From 2005 until now there has been a huge development in relation to the focus and priority of the field of transport. The government of Stoltenberg has put transportation on the agenda. From having added to the Bondevik government's NTP proposal by 20 billion. kr together with the Advance Party in 2005 the red-green government in the current NTP has increased the frames by 100 billion. kr more and in the proposal for a new NTP increased the frames by 150 billion. kr more than 10 years, an increase of 50 pst. from the previous plan. Within these frameworks, funds are available for small and large investment and maintenance projects across the country. I am especially pleased with the prioritisation of the railway. From a very low priority under the Bondevik government, both for investment and special maintenance, piecewise and shared development with many small projects and low predictability in the appropriations, the government over these eight years has both increased the framework and provided predictability in the appropriations and gained development and maintenance in progress. The working party will have carried out simpler planning processes, several major development projects and a project financing of the railway investments providing a coherent, predictable and coherent development. I am therefore very pleased that the government has now put in place a predictable financing model that provides opportunities for this very thing. While the Right doubts about OPS as a solution model, despite massive experience from Norway and other countries that this model is more expensive and therefore not to be recommended, the Government has tried out different models through the two transport plans implemented and based on this experience has come up with a good model. In addition, transport modes have been required to improve efficiency so that the planning time is halved in relation to today, less transport projects can be launched without the decision of the Stortinge to speed up progress, and we will have more government control over plans to make progress in the development, as we did with the Gardermoban. A project to be implemented in this way is the development of the Eastfold Railway. I am pleased that the government prioritises the expansion of the intercity triangle within this planning period and also says that they will complete the expansion to Skien, Halden and Lillehammer during the next scheduled period. It means a lot to people's everyday lives. For Eastfold, it is important to have double-tracks built continuously on both sides of the border with Sweden. Today, increasing freight transport of goods to and from Europe is to a large extent concentrated on E6 from the port of Gothenburg and from south-east Europe. Within a 10-year period, the capacity of E6 according to Vegvesenet will be detonated. We see this as moving on the roads in Eastfold, already. A joint transport planning between Sweden and Norway is therefore essential. In the Workers' Party in Eastfold, we have taken this initiative both through cooperation between the counties and the LO and through an initiative with Swedish social democrats in the Riksdagen. We look forward to following up on this in the next period. The government has completed today's NTP. Now we will also implement the next with new ideas and better solutions, based on experience and accountability.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2125	It's a big day for everyone who is busy with good transport solutions in Norway, and I notice that there are many in this room who have decorated themselves extra to this debate. And that's all reason to celebrate and to decorate. Marine nutrition is an important industry for Norway. A week ago, the Stortinget adopted the maritime food notification, with the ambitious goal of Norway becoming the world’s leading maritime nation. To achieve this objective, it is important to invest in good infrastructure, such as ports and fairways. I am very pleased that the government of the NTP has a strong focus on the further development of state fishing ports to ensure good infrastructure, both for the fishing industry and for maritime transport in the districts. Most fishing ports are originally built to meet local needs for safe berths for fishing boats. However, reception facilities and further transport of fish and fish products have also been important factors for the development of these ports. Therefore, it is important and right to continue to place considerable emphasis on rural policy objectives in the allocation of funds. Measures in the fishing ports are essential to ensure that the fishing fleet is able to use the ports and therefore also essential for maintaining fishing activities and communities. Many ports are, in fact, a crucial factor for settlement and regional development. The future development of fishing ports must take account of developments in both the fishing fleet and the fishing industry. Developments in the fishing industry have led to larger and fewer boats and a more sea-going fleet. The government has now taken account of this in its proposal. I think it is good for the government to say so clearly from the point of view, in the proposal for the NTP, that projects of great importance for national value creation in the fisheries sector should be given priority. I come from a state with a great deal of fishing activity, and I am pleased that this government will put a great deal of effort on fairway measures in Northern Ireland and, in general, along the whole coast for the years to come, and that, in addition, considerable efforts will have to be made on the development of fishing ports. Significant amounts have been proposed to secure the entrance to the node such as Bodø, Rana and Sandness Lake. In addition, a number of other measures have been proposed in this area. In the case of fishing ports, – I have to say – Nordland will look good. I would like to mention here fishing ports such as Andøy, Laukvik, Napp and Røst. All these ports are important fishing ports, and this will facilitate the improvement of the fishing industry, in line with the government’s goal of becoming the world’s leading maritime nation. It also tells me that the government's policy is linked. It's a whole policy we're witnessing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2146	The construction of the E18 through Inner Eastfold has served this road section by 20-30 pst. It is the concept programme in NTNU, which evaluates large state investments, which tells us this. The concept programme at NTNU is not anyone. The Winter Bridge-Oerje stretch is not the longest distance, but we have nine different parcels that are being developed in a clandestine manner. In 1989, the first municipal government decision on the extension of the E18 in Inner Eastfold was taken. In 1989, I went to high school. It's been 24 years. We know that it takes an average of nine years to plan and build a road. Here we have to multiply by 3. We need better coordination of state agencies. We need more planning materials. We need a funding system in which planned and started projects can be implemented more fully in the context, and we need to put in place new funding opportunities and alternative forms of organisation so that the rate of investment on both the road and the track can be increased. Then I am on track: the Christian People's Party has made an important priority: we prioritise the railway in this NTP. We want a better train offer and an upgrade of the railway network. We want full deployment of InterCity as soon as possible. Eastfold has had a clear message to us nine Eastern folds, representing the population of Eastfold in this house, and to the government: They want InterCity built into Halden in 2025. They don't want it to the small, famous place Seut in 2023, so it comes to Fredrikstad, then to Sarpsborg and then finally to Halden. Our message and mission into this NTP was that this came to Halden in 2025. We know that the railway works' calculations for optimal cost and progress are that it takes 13 years to build InterCity fully: 2013 plus 13 years. So let's write 2026. That is why the Christian People's Party has today put on the table a proposal asking the government to come back to the Stortinget with a new case of a complete expansion of InterCity to Halden, Skien and Lillehammer by 2026.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2161	The authorities have for many years, including: through national policy guidelines – steered housing more and more towards areas in municipalities with good collective coverage. The Follo municipalities in Akershus are loyal to the national leaders and during these years have arranged for an increasingly dense housing structure – not least in the municipality of Ski and Oppegård. There have gradually been – and will in the future – a great many people gathered around collective transport modes, which can no longer deal with traffic in a good way. Population growth in the Oslo region is strong, and development forecasts are high. A rapidly growing population will provide both passenger transport and freight transport more and more. Freight train noises far more than passenger trains, and it is planned for ever longer and heavier trains. It is also working to get more and more of the transport from road to rail. And here we're literally on our way – not to say on rails – towards a real conflict area. The plans for the new Folloban, which is to go long distances in the tunnel from Ski and into Oslo, have not outlined how the freight traffic there is to be resolved. There is no strategy on how freight trains can operate Oslo and Alnabru, on the way from Gothenburg. The alternative to goods is then the old Eastfold track. But there are statistics and forecasts for freight traffic. In 2011, nine million tonnes of freight went by car and track between Gothenburg and Oslo. This product flow has been calculated to more than double — to 19 million tonnes — by 2014. The railway network's good strategy to take more market share from car transport is ambitious. The current good strategy is to double train capacity from 2011 to 2020 and triple it by 2040. There'll be a lot of freight trains. Right wants goods on the track, but for us it is not acceptable that the Eastfold Railway between Oslo and Ski should be the main road for freight traffic. Rail freight is positive and absolutely necessary, but it is important to have a comprehensive policy and to facilitate both good living environments and climate-friendly freight transport at the same time. The old Eastfold railway, from Ski and into Oslo, is just passing through these densely populated areas, which the State wants the municipalities to continue. Then we see the conflict area: Noise is a public health problem and conflicts with public health legislation. The noise outlook we see in the 2040 documents is not compatible with state demands for rail congestion, and thus the population along the inner part of the Eastfold road is facing a conflict, in a situation where they are expected to contribute to being part of the solution for congestion in the metropolitan region. Noise causes health problems, and society cannot plan for an increased risk of them. I point to the comments from the Right and the Christian People's Party, that it has to be arranged for the goods to be transported on the new Folloban.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2180	The President cannot record the presence of the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen, and then we move on to Ingrid Heggø, who is the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2183	National transport plans provide a historic boost for Norwegian transport and new means of efficiency and funding, so that we get a more holistic and sustainable development of roads and roads and thus more rational operation. The NTP is clearly red-green: we agree on the level of funding, priority and funding. Before moving, the Progress Party and the Right are miles away from each other when it involves financing transport through the use of tolls and oil money. The party of progress is categorically saying no tolls, while the Right is too. In fact, 56 new road projects, on the central level such as E39, E16, E6 and E18, are in large uncertainty, as a result of the opposition's toll The working party is very pleased with the clarification in the NTP that the seal to Florø should be improved and that a surer required depth so that large rigs can also enter Florø. The West is one of the most powerful regions in the country, with about half of all traditional exports. The government's ambition to bind the West together through an upgraded and vacation-free E39 within 20 years is good for both business and the population. Reparation for yellow middle stripe throughout the whole county is well under way. It is important to clarify the importance of the rapid upgrading of the E39 and that the planning work for the Vadheim-Langeland-Moscog route, with the conversion of the E39 around the Füdde Zentrum, and the work on the Füddepackage continue. It's this red-green government that's been working the Vika Mountain Tunnel into the NTP. I'd like to remind you that he wasn't inside from the etats. In addition, I would like to say to the committee comment from the red-green ones, and not only to the part that says that the tunnel is important to be realized in the second period, but also to what is in the introduction: ‘a prioritisation of a project during the second part of the planning period will allow for the establishment or continuation of the planning of the projects.’;» [[...]] This means that we're red-green here, too, in contrast to the wretched promises from the right side. It's nice to be able to stand here and say that a red-green voice will secure City's tunnel. A red-green voice will secure the ferry-free E39, with yellow centre stripe through the county. A red-green voice will ensure that the Vica Mountain Tunnel will become a reality. We red-green won't use the cottage to argue about which project is going into the NTP, we've decided. We don't want to take the time to argue about how to finance the process, we've decided. We're ready to shop and fulfill the NTP promises this time as well, as we've also delivered at NTP in the previous period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2213	The northern state is a long and narrow state, with a long coastline. The county also has two other characteristics that are particularly relevant to the transport investments we are discussing here today. One is that people live relatively evenly across the county. The second is that we have a very export-oriented business. In 2012, the export value of traditional goods was over 19 billion. kr according to Index Nordland. In addition to traditional exports, indirect exports amounting to about 10 billion. kr in the form of raw material originating from the fishing industry and aquaculture slaughterhouses in other parts of the country, exports of technological services, communications services, travel, shipping, an ageing export of petroleum services and exports of power. It goes without saying that a good infrastructure that ensures the rapid delivery of goods, good communication for business and secure solutions for people is essential in Northern Ireland. That is why the proposal for a new national transport plan is both right and important for my country. In the coastal state of Northern Ireland, there are a wide range of projects with ports and fairways that strengthen the possibilities of maritime transport. Action is being taken to further develop aerodromes in order to improve aeroplane connections in and out of the county. The Northern Railway is an important year for freight transport in North Norway. It is therefore essential that the remote control of the Mosjøen-Bodø route be completed, as foreseen in the plan. It will increase the capacity on the track. Through the proposed appropriations of nearly 4 billion. kr to Trønderbanen also starts electrification of the Nordlandsbanen. I met with pleasure it announced the investigation of the consequences of electrification of the rest of the Nordlandsbahn. There are also a number of initiatives for new cross-border rail links from Sweden, Finland and Russia to ice-free Norwegian ports. These include: an initiative in the Northern Partnership of a Joint Barents Transport Plan. The government must take an active role in following up this initiative as part of the Northern Region Initiative and not just leave initiatives to our Nordic neighbours and Barents neighbours. Bodø airport is Norway’s sixth largest airport measured in terms of number of passengers and a crucial connecting point for the Nordland regional grid. Bodø also has a comprehensive aviation, safety and preparedness environment, with a number of national and regional functions. Several of these environments require a robust aerodrome solution that facilitates the continuation of existing functions and the development of new ones. That is why I am pleased that the government in the presented is taking responsibility for ensuring development and putting in place a process for a long-term civil aviation solution in Bodø. In the transition from Bodø airport to being a main military aviation station to becoming a clean civil airport, it is essential for the further development of one of the capitals in the north that you have a seamless transition, and that you have access to areas as soon as possible, and I am sure that the government will contribute to a good cooperation with the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2228	Political breakthroughs often take time. It was in 1989 double tracks on the Vestfold track for the first time was an important campaign case for Vestfold SV. The railway has failed by government after government. The Stoltenberg I government proposed 1 billion in 2001. for railway investment as well as an NTP plan for annual appropriations of SEK 1.67 billion. kr. But already in the 2002 state budget, they cut off relative to NTP and proposed only 1.3 billion. At such a pace it would take 130 years to complete the intercity triangle. The Bondevik II government, which had Minister of Transport from the Left, proposed a total of 1.4 billion. to railway in its 2005 budget. It reduced them in the draft budget the following year. They thus extended the construction time of InterCity for another few hundred years. Had the Stortinget adopted SV’s proposal for allocations to the Vestfoldbanen when the NTP was dealt with in 2004, we would have had double tracks to Tønsberg now. When the red-green government arrived, the appropriations for the railway speeded up, but still no expansion in Westfold. SV in Westfold did not let our government die in sin, for we would not at all have a government that did what the former governments had done, failed the Westfold course. Then we got an impact on the construction of the double-track Barkåker-Tønsberg, and then it got loose, then the line Sande-Nykirke, which is now being built, came at lightning speed, and Eidangertraseen. The railway appropriations have been quadrupled since the Right was in government. Two thirds of this is used in Westfold. We're happy with that. For the next ten years, a further 30 billion will be used. And that's not how we limit ourselves to an internal intercity triangle. The planning of the line between Tønsberg and Larvik must start now, so that the work can be completed when the new church is finished. We have only the time and the way to this planning, so SV in Vestfold, together with the Workers' Party, has arranged for state regulation to ensure rapid progress. The SV's reason for building up the railway is that we need more efficient and environmentally friendly transport, and then we don't just have to expand the railway, we have to make sure to get traffic from road to rail. This transport plan involves a twist in that direction. SV also proposed 4 billion in 2004. to the new border track and the interconnection of Vestfoldbanen and Sørlandsbanen. In this NTP there has finally been an agreement to draw up a concept selection inquiry for the Border Railway. It shall occur in the first part of the period — i.e.: that the investigation will be completed when the Eidangertrase is completed. Then it can be opened for lightning trains between Oslo and Stavanger – the Southwest via Vestfold – which will serve half of Norway’s population and have a large potential to replace air traffic. Just before the Jutland meeting, the Right in Westfold handed out a running note at the railway stations where they promised double tracks within ten years. That promise they did nothing to keep.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2243	On September 9th becomes a great day for City Ship Tunnel. And why do I mention 9 September? Well, that's because the voters in the country are going to make sure that we get a new government that's going to make sure that we get a start time for the ship's tunnel in 2014 -- as opposed to the current government, which has seen of only 1 billion. kr for this project and will start in 2018. That is to say, it is not fully financed during this planning period, and at least it will not be completed until after 2020. This is a project that you've been working on since the early 1980s, and it's been a lot of customs stuff. The last one was if it was possible to hit the tunnel opening, and I was just waiting for a new one to come, which looked at whether it was possible to get out of the tunnel opening when one was in. It's time we saw the final line for such customs and started building this important project, which will have an enormous impact on the whole of the West. I would like to mention what is happening on the Vikaberg – with a road tunnel that is especially important for the whole region. The road tunnel has an enormous impact on the industry in the district. The progress game will continue to promote the start of this project. I note that the Progress Party is the only party that also mentions the side tunnel of Arnafjorden, and points to the large social costs with the necessary racial protection at Fv. Ninety-two. Building this side tunnel can help save a lot of money to build racial protection, because it is then unnecessary. I want to say a few words about the county roads. The government's proposal for a municipal bill and the NTP result in that in Sogn and Fjordane, state politicians must cut even more road maintenance compared to last year – even if it was too bad. Investing in new road projects is not the only crown in Sogn and Fjordne for the next ten years. We can't live with this. The country’s leader in Sogn and Fjordane – from the Workers’ Party – was very critical of the government’s distribution key when it comes to roadways, where Sogn and Fjordane come out badly. I'm surprised that the Central Party, which has had the Minister of Transport for eight years, has managed to create such an unfair distribution system for District Norway as we now have – not least from each value creation happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2258	I think Åge Starheim will be disappointed September 9th. Those who know the whales and grassroots on the coast know that culture and communication are one of the things that interests everyone, most of all. That's why I'm very pleased with the effort we're now looking at a ferry-free E39, an E6 with arms to Måløy, Ålesund and Kristiansund, and not least the fairs and ports – a historic bet, of which we have every reason to be proud. It is also a happy day for the government and the Transport and Communications Committee to give priority to the City Tunnel. As you can see from the annotations it is almost such that you can never imagine such a small cape about the importance of this tunnel – very good! The location of the ship's tunnel is in a special-class Farlei project. The project is dedicated to environmental benefits, labour market construction, public transport, and the organisation of goods by road to sea. It is a huge gain for the short-sea fleet, for business and for travel – a prize-winning attraction that will put Norway on the world map. The last cost-benefit calculations from SINTEF show positive societal benefits. This promises well, and I believe this project, similar to many other long-term, important transportation projects, will make the calculations of social benefits a shame. The town of the ship's tunnel is neither complicated nor extremely expensive. He's short, only 1,700 meters. According to the Coastal Works, building the tunnel is not a major challenge either. The price is roughly as for two advanced offshore vessels, or less than 30 pst. of the price of the Bjørvika tunnel. The tunnel will remove the crossing of the most dangerous piece of sea on the Norwegian coast. Increased safety, greater safety and reduced waiting times are important for both wellboats, container ships, cargo boats, fishing boats, tourist ships, fast way and recreational craft. City ship tunnel will paste this part of the West together, so that we get one of the most valuable building and labour market regions on the coast. A coherent quick-boat route on the coast will be Westland's short-haul project. Finally, a great deal of thanks to all those who have contributed to this important national and international project being in place in the national transport plan, and to further quality assurance – KS2 – and planning can be carried out in order to launch the project in 2018, or earlier, if it is feasible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2279	It's good to record: what has shaped this debate until now is that the next government parties have both more money on their hands, and in some cases better ideas and new solutions. So I'm -- like Gieleth, but with a different starting point -- pretty optimistic about what's coming after September. I'm quite satisfied with the job that's been done across the board in Stortingen with regard to lifting E134, which is one of the six national transport corridors. Many municipalities, county councils and business companies have worked for very many years to achieve the goals that are now being achieved through NTP. But they've waited to the most extent for this realization. This applies primarily to new E134 through Kongsberg, and in particular to new Århus-Gvammen tunnel – which is the one that we drive Haukeliveien, need the fastest, and the most. Too many big ones, the Stordal Tunnel is a shaky story, and it is still not realized by this big business in terms of construction start-ups. The main project for the whole of E134 over Haukeli is two new tunnels on the outskirts of Röldal, between Hordaland and Telemark. The majority of the Committee says that that route is so important that despite the fact that the government parties do not have the power to bring it forward in the first half of the National Transport Plan period, there is a local desire to start torch-shooting – having parallel toll collection – so that one can still start building it in 2015, the goal being. Most of it is clearly local. That is why it is very good that the Committee is so pleased with the work done that it will be relatively little more before the next majority can accept this. The road across Haukeli represents one third of the total east-west traffic and nearly 40 pst. of commercial traffic. There are quite nutrient-intensive cities and regions there, and we have to take into account the growth that will come on this stretch after Rogfast when it gets shorter for all business from Stavanger to run over Haukeli than via Kristiansand. You get the effect of the Jondal tunnel, the Folgefonn tunnel and Hardangerbrua – on the north side. Then I'm, and Right, very happy with the expansion we're now getting to Drøbak. It is a natural extension from Drammen to Drøbak – in natural connection to E6, and for freight traffic to Sweden. I'm more concerned about "stupid" – to call it that – with an arm of a European road to Bergen. For this reason, the Right has said that we are not in favour of that comment – it conflicts with the other one on European roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2294	Between Kongsberg and Drammen lies Silver Road, Norway's first highway, built just after the silver found in 1623. That's a good illustration of the need for a road. The silver had to leave Kongsberg, the workers had to enter. That's why King Christian IV left the first public Norwegian road right there. Today is a happy day. Finally, the extension of E134, Damåsen-Saggrenda is adopted through Kongsberg. I've had kids myself at the Wennersburg school – the nursery in the center – where heavy traffic rushes by, where there's a speed limit of 40 km, and where speed dumps provide the best possible road safety on a route it's actually impossible to get road safety on. Finally, Kongsberg Technology Park gets a proper exit. An industry that sells for approx. 40 B.C.E. Of course, kr per year, mostly for export, needs a new silver road. Even today, immigrants come in, commute in, while world-class high technology is being transported out. In a few years the queue will be over. A new road is absolutely necessary for Kongsberg to continue to grow, but is of course also important for the whole route E134 east-west. In the last six-year period, an additional tunnel on the E134, the Power Seed Tunnel, and several projects will be completed along the road. E134 becomes the most attractive route east–west. That's why it's very important, as the committee writes, that it is gradually separated from the exit at Fron on E6, under the Oslofjord tunnel, further along rv. 23 and above the mountain towards Haugesund and Bergen. A good NTP for Buskerud was even better when the Workers' Party got a pass to clarify that there was no need for a new KVU for the Ringeriks track, but an investigation of double tracks and high speed. In addition, when we got a solution for the E16 Bjørum-Skaret with toll companies that were given the opportunity to borrow, and the state share in the first NTP period, there was a reason for the well-being of Solli Heights to spread the champagne. They've lived by their door for 20 years with thunderous traffic. The Ringerix community needs very much new infrastructure. The region of the East, with the highest potential for growth, is perhaps the Ring Kingdom. But then there is a need for new infrastructure, both road and rail. The Eggmoen-Olum shall be started. When the Ringerix course is ready, the journey time from Hønefoss will be less than half an hour. One can then commute from Flå in Hallingdal in one hour to Oslo – or another way. What this is going to mean for Ringerike's and Hallingdal's future attractiveness, one does not need to be clear-sighted in order to predict. Playing Ringriche's good cards, they can really flower. As a former ringing i know what the pearl Ring Kingdom is. Today I congratulate everyone who has fought for the E16 and for the Ringerix Railway for many years. So there are a lot of projects I could say something about, which are important for Buskerud: rv. 23, rv.7, both over Hardangervidda and Sokna–Örgenvika, but it does not allow time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2315	We have today's best, most extensive and most forward-looking transport plan for treatment. Most of them are satisfied, but as usual, the Progress Party thinks this is the ping-pong. In Hedmark we have a concept: ‘It is impossible to race with calves’. This is also true in the relationship between the NTP and the Progress Party. No matter how good a case is, the Progress Party will be able to constantly double its efforts. But the seriousness of such proposals does not increase proportionally with the size of the offer. There isn't much of the know-how or the track project that's not within their option. This is surrender policy without priority. On my way to and from Oslo, use E6 or intercity trains from Brumunddal to Oslo. It is a real pleasure to see the construction activity carried out along the road here. More than 350 plant machines are in turn from Minnesund and northwards, where long shifts are worked and very efficiently. Through a parallel expansion of road and track, contractors exploit machines, mountain masses and mass movements in a very efficient way. It is worth noting that this is done without OPS contracts. The effectiveness of OPS contracts would not improve, but the projects would probably be here, like similar contracts in Sweden and England, 25 pst. more expensive, and each contractor would be able to make large annual dividends. The interior has lived in the oil shadow for many years, which we will also do in the years to come, but we get a little bit more sunshine when the E6 and the double-track railway are in place. Four-field E6 has been the main industrial wish-making action for many years. Moelven Industrier, together with politicians from the Mjø region and from the Inland counties, has been the driver of a continuous expansion from the Colomo to Moelv. There was disappointment in the business community and among politicians locally when NTP was presented and there was room for a stay in the development when E6 reached Brumunddal. But the joy was all the greater when the government parties and the transport committee thanked and said yes to continuous expansion to Moelv. This shows that influence is possible and that democracy works. An amazing transport plan was even better when this came into place. With hope of gluing bridge over Mjøsa, there will also be an exhibition window for the wood technology developed into the OL in 1994 in addition to a transport lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2328	National transport plan is an important document for the planning and construction of transport infrastructure. I am very pleased that Right through the management of NTP facilitates the greatest trade effort in the time, and that the Right has important committee comments for many projects from Sogn and Fjordane. One of the most important transport projects in the West is the ferry-free E39. In NTP, the Right states that the free E39 from Kristiansand to Trondheim must be given priority as a national project, and that one must have ambitions to build the Free E39 within 20 years. For the E39 through Sogn and Fjordane, several sections of the first four-year period have been remedied. During the last period, priority shall be given to several sections between Vadheim and Kvivsvegen in Hornindal. E39 through the Executive Centre creates major challenges for further growth and development in the Leader and throughout this region. A limited liability company is formed to implement the planning and construction of a new road on the E39 between Langeland and Moskog and its neighbour in the Fördecentrum, the so-called Predepackak. Right is in favour of this work and believes that the state must also contribute planning resources in the fissure layer. Right determines that the internal line is the best and most forward-looking line for the E39 between Skei and Volda, and that this option should be used as the basis for the further levelling work. This means that planning can take place and that it can be arranged for plant start-ups to cross the North fjord in the period from 2018. The coast road between Bergen and Ålesund is a good example of the fact that important road projects do not come into the opening position after the county got responsibility for these roads. An important effort is being made to plan a new road link between Målø and Florø, the 45-minute region. Right has long set the value of getting a new route on this route. That's why the Right has previously suggested that we use 200 million. I am very pleased that the Right wants to continue this. Another important project on the west coast is the City Ship Tunnel. It will facilitate safer and more efficient maritime transport along a particular critical point on the coast. In NTP, an economic framework of 1 billion has been put in place. kr to City Ship Tunnel, and the Right will consider the projection of the construction start of the City Ship Tunnel by building it as a OPS project. Today's winter rule over the Vikaberg offers great challenges both for business and for the inhabitants. Right wants to facilitate the launch of the Viking Mountain Tunnel during the first part of the planning period, and then it is decisive that the planning work is completed so that it can be completed. One is also in the final phase of work on KVU for Rv. 15 on the Strynfjellet. Here, it is important to provide a solution that also secures year-round contact with Geiranger, which is a very important national tourist destination. All in all, this is a very good communication project that Right will continue to work on after 9 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2351	National transport plan is a massive investment in transport throughout the country. Our government has delivered according to the ambitious plans we have promised before – now we will continue Norway with 508 billion. kr in the national transport plan. It's an important day for many, and it's great to see when people come from both east and west here today to celebrate the plans. If I had looked at the new Folloban, it would have taken me 11 minutes to get from Oslo to Ski. There's going to be a new weekday for everyone who lives in Follo and is going to work in Oslo, or who lives in Oslo and is going to work in Follo. It is a pleasure that today’s decision gives full start from 2014. But it's actually also very necessary. The population of Oslo and Akershus will actually increase by 300,000 over the next 30 years, and then we have to have the infrastructure in place. We can't take away that growth with increasing traffic. It's a pleasure when we can read in the East German magazine that record people take the train. The number of passengers on the local train has increased by 7 pst. and on intercitytoga with 11 pst. Follobanen is the start of full intercity development to Fredrikstad and Halden. It's the gateway to Europe. One can get goods from the road to the track, and the path provides the necessary capacity and reduced travel time. Difor is Follobanen the main railway project in the national transport plan. The government will now establish a new scheme for specific priority projects. Projects shall ensure prudent funding and rational implementation. The Folloban already has its own post on the state budget and should clearly become a priority project. Then we can start with the construction of Norway's longest railway tunnel. And he can build without a stop – with a tunnel drill. Tomorrow, the local government in Ski adopted the regulation plan for cross-cutting tunnels – it may be a little technical, but it has to. Ski municipalities then regulated their part of the plan before the summer holiday. It is only to start and work. When I look at the comment from the Right Party and the Christian Party, I have to say that I am a little surprised, and I wonder what their goal is all day. With the experience I had as a linguist in Ski during the Bondevik II regime, where we didn't even get any crowds of millions to start planning this path, I'm pretty uncertain about what they want. Therefore, the safest thing for the Folloban project is a continued red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2370	NTP 2014-2023 is in many ways an important and necessary step in the right direction in Norwegian transport policy. We see an ever-increasing maintenance run on our roads. In particular, the former national roads that were transferred to the county municipalities in 2010 have imposed an economic responsibility on the counties that they are obviously unable to handle. The maintenance allowance within the county roads alone is estimated to be between 45 and 75 billion. kr and threatens the other service activities of county councils, e.g. in secondary school. In order to stop the maturity, the Right Interest Compensation Scheme is widened and strengthened, which is liquidated by the Government Parties. At the same time, we set up a 50-billion-dollar fund. kr, where the return is to be earmarked for maintenance of roads and railways. Right takes offensive grip. We see the need for a new offensive policy with new solutions. Overall, there is a need to facilitate the use of a greater proportion of the earnings of State pension funds abroad for investment in roads, railways and other transport infrastructure projects. The funds will be used for socially profitable investments, which will give Norway future competitiveness and well-being across the country. At the same time, we open up more realistic criteria for calculating socio-economic profitability. Large-scale deployments should be organised as own public-owned projects with independent performance responsibility. This will provide more comprehensive and efficient planning and faster implementation of major transport projects. Right wants to finance entire sections of the project in order to create a global boost in the transport sector. The loan conditions must reflect the country's creditworthiness and borrowing rates in the market. There must be no end to the daunting, rational and expensive transportation projects that only move the bottlenecks a few kilometres at a time. Retrieved from my home country, More and Romesdal, I can mention the following examples of such thinking in the form of a note: ‘E136 Ålesund – Uppland border should be developed as a comprehensive project’.» And then on the right is ‘successful that several individual projects are prioritised, but indicates that the right ambition is an overall expansion of the entire route, not just to move the bottlenecks’. Similarly, we say about the E39 Møreaksen, ferry-free connection between Ålesund and Molde: ‘according to the KS1 assessment of the Mortar axis, this project has a net useful value of 2,6 billion. krones. [[...]] The State Road Administration has carried out calculations from Victor Normann, which have demonstrated that the project provides an annual value-added for the housing and labour market of 835 million. kronor, and that Torger Reve has documented an annual business development utility of 768 million. crowns’.» These are annual utility values. And fortunately, these examples are not just non-obligatory comments. Both of these projects have been promoted as joint proposals from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2405	The fact that Norway and Sweden share the longest common border in Europe is a good illustration of the length of Norway. Another illustration could be that Norway was given the E6 in the new European Road System from 1985, because retransmission would be too expensive on such a long road. How does Norway’s geography affect the economy? Much more expensive. While other European countries are doing well with a few meters of road per capita, Norway needs to build many meters to build the country together. In addition, we need many bridges and long tunnels, such as the Nordhordlandsbrua, the Triangle Connection and the Lærdal Tunnel. Long distances make road construction require a lot of labour and a lot of money. For this reason, the national transport plan provides for massive road, rail and coastal investment. The financial framework is increased by 50 pst. - About 150 billion. kr. Over the course of a decade, we're going to spend more than 500 billion dollars. kr for transport purposes. Traffic safety is improved, travel times are reduced and maintenance is strengthened. The longest European roads are given priority, with objectives of efficient corridors building the country closer together, and leading us closer together. The government will build double tracks in the intercity triangle on the east, ferry-free E39 on the west and ship tunnel at the city. City ship tunnel is a project that creates enormous enthusiasm, and that has a long history. The city tunnel was also discussed when my grandfather Dankert Tegen was vice-president of Vanylven in the 1970s. Now it can become a reality. The tunnel is a bet on the coast – which will improve the safety and the connections beyond the hard sea level. After eight years in Oslo, and countless nights on Bergensbanen, I am glad that the double track between Bergen and Arna is completed, that the Ringeriksbanen is coming, and that the train offer at Vosebanen is improved. In Hordaland, we are also engaged in a number of road investments: on E16, E39 and E134, and on Rv. 7, rv. 13 and Rv. 555. Let me mention one project in particular: Sotra and Eyegarden, a region with over 30,000 inhabitants, are connected to Bergen with a two-field bridge – a vulnerable link for a region with rapid population growth and nutrient development. There is a lot of traffic, high traffic growth and long queues. The government is now giving priority to starting up a new Sotra connection, which will provide better accessibility and better conditions for public transport, cyclists and pedestrians. It's a milestone for my region. National transport plan is an ambitious document for road safety, rail, environment, public transport, road investment and maintenance. The government overfilled the transport plan submitted by the previous government. The appropriations are strongly increased and are on track to follow-up. It gives credibility. Let's take Norway on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2423	Although one should be careful to use words as historical, I can't let go today. This plan means a historical commitment to transport throughout Norway. Hedmark is an important transport group with several national transport corridors, north-south and east-west, both by road and rail. It means too many – not just for people in Hedmark. In Hedmark, we have not been deprived of funds from national transport plans in the past. This only worked out when the Center Party and the Red-Green Government came to power eight years ago. I will praise the red-green government to dry to make some choices. It is an ambitious but necessary goal to meet the growth of urban areas with public transport, bicycles and corridors. And the intercity expansion is crucial to meeting the press problem in the Oslo area. It will give people the opportunity to commute over long distances, as State Council Marit Arnstad said earlier today. Intercity development is simply a great opportunity for Hedmark, when in 2024 we get half-hour frequencies and less than an hour's travel time from Hamar to Oslo. At the same time, we get four-field road to Hamar, all the way up to Brumunddal and to Kongswinger, and it becomes such a standard on almost the entire route to Elverum. For those who are still concerned about extending north to Brumunddal, the majority of the Transport Committee has made it clear in its note that the agencies can now start or continue the planning of projects coming in the last half of the planning period. Then, of course, I also have to mention a project for which I burn specifically. It's electrification of the Røros and Solørbahn. The railway works shall now assess the consequences for electrification of this section of the track. I look forward to that, because it's such a good socio-economic project that it has to be realized. Then we also get more goods on the track throughout the country, and not least we can send the goods outside the Alnabru bottleneck. It will save society a lot of money, and it's also an environmental project, but we're going to get back to that later. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance that we now have the possibility of forecasting funding for major projects within today's budgetary system. It's very much better than building on the chalk with an overly expensive OPS solution – which the Right is so fancied. The centre party and the red-green government have given a journey promise to the whole country and to Hedmark. A total of 30 billion has been allocated. kr to Hedmark projects during the NTP period. We haven't been close to this before, and at least we're not going to get close if there's going to be a dark blue government that will present the next national transport plan; a dark blue government that will and will not have tolls, and that will and will not have OPS.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2446	Very many of the red-green posts today have focused on how poor the movement effort was under the previous bourgeois government. Yes then, the amounts were several times lower, but the red-green politicians have to remember that they have had hundreds of billion more at their disposal than they had before. It also means that they are required to produce a result in terms of how the money has been used, and the capacity to implement it. That is where the debate on OPS – on other solutions to build on – comes from. That is why this debate has emerged. I hear that in some articles, public–private cooperation is referred to as just interest, or the fact that there are entrepreneurs who make money in building the roads. Yes, I hope it will always be. There will be entrepreneurs who make a lot of money. Some make less money. But the very idea of building by means of OPS does not depend only on the interest rate bit. It's going to be a complete implementation. It's on a guarantee against budget cracks. It goes on maintenance, and it is not least that the road will be completed in the past. That's what's absolutely central. Examples can be found from both England and Sweden and anywhere. Instead, let's go to South Africa and look at the E18 Grimstad–Kristiansand and how quickly it was completed. That's how it can be done. It saves the drivers for problems, and it's socio-economic good. I'm going to use the last minute to talk a little bit about the intercity bet in Westfold. Right formulations that we should build it complete, comprehensive, as quickly as possible and by 2030 at the latest, are a strong commitment for the lot. Then I see that we almost get a competition about who has the best formulations, and I've heard representatives from Westfold here today talk about having something called a plan horizon for completion. I don't know what the plan horizons for completion are. I just know that building something within some time limit, building it as quickly as possible – for example. with some other solutions, with some alternatives — and having an open mind, is important. I have also heard local representatives from Vestfold talk about not caring about local politicians, local decision-making, when it comes to routes. I'm more skeptical about that. The right is a party that believes that politics should come from below, and that state overarching is something to be cautious about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2457	One might say that this is a quite predictable debate. It's obvious that the respective batches have one solution, and that's the solution they stand for. Everything else is more or less stupid. The policy of the Progress Party is described as irresponsible because we spend more money than the others, and because we are against tolls – it is absolutely impossible if we are to cooperate on the civil side. So the solution is that the state takes the bill and uses the population to finance it. It's pretty good if we can finance your expenses by letting others pay for them. That's great. It's the socialist approach here today. There are some paradoxes in this. If you are so concerned about the use of money by the Progress Party, that people should be freed from their own resources, for example. Pay less in tolls, why is it so problematic? For our part, we think it's perfectly okay that people keep their money themselves, and we don't think that the state is necessarily the best one to solve all the problems. We have great confidence that people and families themselves know their own best. In addition, if you look at the story, it's a fact that in this room you have removed the debt of the Gardermoban. Then there was no problem. Seven, or nine, billion. kr – away – with a pinch it was funded. I didn't realize that it hit the Norwegian economy or anything else, but it's obvious that when the Progress Party makes proposals for increased appropriations, that will affect society on a large scale. Just time will show who's right, and that might be why it's called politics. Let me say two things about something that I'm concerned about. I enjoy driving from Oslo and home sometimes – a two, three times a year – and it's just as fascinating every time. Especially when I leave Nord-Trøndelag and come to Nordland. It's a nightmare. Driving from the north border to the sea is like driving a carousel on Hugos tivoli or something like that – for those who have tried it. And driving from Lake Mosque to the Basket – in the same area – is another nightmare. That's why I think the solution is to speed up the construction of E6 – of course without tolls. In addition, I have read with great interest an interview with the representative of the Nordland Centerparti here in the hall, who is pleased with his own comment on the completion of the E6 in the northern part of the Salt Mountain down to Borkamo. It's a distance of approximately. 20 km. It was 20 years ago – about the day – that the rest of the E6 was finished in the Salt Valley. For 20 years you have been waiting for this, and so the representative from the Central Party in this interview says that this must be seen in connection with the construction of the tunnel by highway 77 through the Mountain. If that's how the Storting must give such orders to those who work in the Road Directorate and the Ministry of Transport, then I'm worried. I assume that these are intelligent, up-and-coming people who see the natural in connecting two such projects. If they don't see it, they should find something else to do. I expect the Stortinget not to operate with detailed management neither by builders nor other, but to set framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2472	I have to say that it was a little special to experience being attacked in order to be dogmatic in relation to the OPS by the representative Sanner instead. I'm almost tempted to say that on myself you know others. At least he may not have followed the debate today particularly well, because then he would have found that both the undersigned and several others from the Workers' Party and the red-green parties point out that there are positive aspects of OPS, positive aspects that we are now putting into use – as the possibility of seeing investments, operations and maintenance as a whole. But this can be done without simultaneously using OPS as a financial instrument. It is very special that the right now is almost alone when they want to use OPS as a financial instrument, regardless of warnings, whether from party colleagues in England and Sweden – which refers to the consequences of this, among others. by binding budgets, and by making road construction much more expensive — or there are experiences and warnings available here in Norway, among others. in the leading position of the major newspapers. But the thing that may worry me most, or that I ask most questions about, is that Right through its proposal for NTP really conceals the real cost of its proposal. Only the 17 OPS projects will cost over 100 billion. kr. We don't know the final price tag. We also do not know what the price tag is on the other projects proposed by the Right. We also do not know what consequences this might have for the rule of action. Also the Left and Christian People's Party sail under false flags when they say they'll build out intercity by 2025, but have only added a tenth of what it costs. To Jan Arild Ellingsen – I think he just went out: you could say a lot about the Advancement Party, but they should have, at least they put the money on the table that they think their promises will cost. And then they are relatively honest and open about the consequences it has for Norwegian economic policy. Finally, you have to listen when the Right says that they want to slim down the railway station, because they know what they're talking about. The Bondevik II government spent considerable money on getting rid of central competence – they gave the final package, among others. to people with valuable signal skills. This is a competence that we have had to spend a lot of resources rebuilding, and that has cost us precious time in the precarious work of rebuilding a railway. I think we can't afford another experiment like that. It has cost us too much, it has cost us too much time, the consequences have been too large – finally we are getting Norwegian railway on our legs again after eight years of red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2489	In June of eight years ago, a proud Left State Council defended a national transport plan of 200 billion dollars. kr to traffic for the next 10 years. The Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Advance Party form a multiplicity for 22 billion. kr more. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party call these 22 billion air money. After four years of red-green rule, the first stage of the plan was fulfilled and the goal of 100 billion new ones in place. The next four-year plan was more than met. A long list of projects on the road and path have been completed, started or under planning. It's big to have lived tight on these processes. And then today we adopt a plan of 508 billion states. That's so good! There is so much more security, better visibility, reduced travel times and reduced costs both in completed projects and in the projects that are now in our leadership. The Right Party and the Progress Party have today conveyed the opposite of security. This option will be enhanced: it is not available at all. In something as decisive as funding, the Right Party and the Progress Party are totally disagreeable. There is a bit of a chance for the person who wants to strengthen his trade in this country, to let go of these two games after the election! The government has decided how much money is going to be used and how much money is going to be. We know what we want. Right Will Have The OPS Progress Party Not Delete. Right will follow the action rule - the progress party will not be deleted. Right goes for tolls - The Progress Party promises to terminate all toll projects. If the Christian People's Party and the Left are involved in this company, it doesn't make the drawing easier; they use the money several times. Brother Hoksrud has warned that today’s decisions can be made for a short time. It's easy to understand, but it's literally in the blue what had to come instead. We red-green have shown – over eight years – that we have delivered. We are now laying the groundwork for an ambitious plan for the next ten years. We're ready to deliver from the first day after the election. We have shown that we have an executive power. I have to say there have been many reviews in these years, but that is also effective!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2502	I have to say it's quite exciting to hear the Central Party stand on the pulpit and talk about that the disagreement on the civil side must make it impossible to achieve government cooperation. I thought it was the SV and the Center Party who were in government? And if they could figure that out, we're going to be able to really figure it out on the civil side. There's a lot of consensus about it all, mostly. It has been nice to sit and listen to this debate, because when you hear the debate, you would think it was about evaluating what has happened up to decades ago. But this is a plan for the future, and it is clear that this is historic. This was the previous speeches, and my colleague from East Agder, Freddy de Ruiter, felt that this was a historic promise that no one had expected. It is such that no one I have talked to about this presentation, had expected anything lower than the bet that is there now. And that's because we have historically big tasks to do, and then we need historical investment, and that's a historical economic basis to do it. That's good. We have all the things we're fighting for, and I'm afraid I have to say, for the South, there's no historical boost in this message. Yes, it's good that we've got certain parts of the E39 going west, and I'm very glad that the opposition parties are clear on both progress and standard on the road between Kristiansand and Stavanger, because this is a very important road, not least given that there is a port in Kristiansand that takes a lot of traffic. In the South – probably because of our maritime background – we talk a lot about the anchor. The one arm then goes west, E39, to Stavanger, and then the very attachment and attachment arm that goes up the Setes Valley – where one so terribly would like to have a yellow middle stripe all the way – and the other arm goes east, E18, towards the East. So in this message, by which it's boasted, the means of planning for E18 are halved. The very basis for starting construction is halved. It's weird, and it's disappointing. I'm very happy that I can clarify what's the Right grip, which is a little different than someone makes it here. The right-hand approach is to free up more resources in the sector, to build roads and tracks. The right-hand key is to spend this money in such a way that we get more money in place faster. What the drivers want is a safe and good way, which is a good economy. We've really experienced that with the road that was built between Kristiansand and Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2515	National transport plan is in many ways the key to achieving important visions in the north. With NTP, Right presents new ideas and better solutions that will provide the basis for good forward-looking communication solutions across the country. Investments in roads, ports, railways and airports are investments in future value creation, housing and well-being, less bureaucracy and more money on the road and track. After listening to today's debate, one can get the impression that the red-green government is sitting with the fasit of the transport policy. It does not — nor in Troms, where the transport challenges are greater than ever, and where this government’s transfer of the national roads to the counties has placed Troms on the small cozy Norway stop in the road maintenance run. This is now creating more and more problems for business, and for most people, who use these pathways in their daily lives. There is no response in the NTP indicating that the government will take responsibility for bringing the standard on the county roads of Troms up to an acceptable level in the foreseeable future. Developments in Troms with today's government have, on the contrary, left important county road projects, such as the Langsund link and the Bjarkøy link, on hold. Right will return the county roads to the state to ensure more efficient planning, and the Right will grant more money for road and road maintenance and continue the interest compensation scheme that has been so important to county councils but that the government has now removed with a pen stroke. Right will build better roads and roads for the future. That is why the right-wing vote is on the Tromsø region package. The road package was received with great enthusiasm by all but red-green politicians. It is a columbi egg that will both provide more efficient, central road solutions and equally important – construction of the last part of E8 towards Tromsø, which can be combined with the realisation of the important Ullsfjord compound towards the northern state. This is how Nord-Troms are linked closer to Tromsø and will create an efficient housing and working region and large, new opportunities for business development. Tromsø region package shall be realised as a OPS project with pass-by charges for the tunnels to be built and ferry release solvents. E6 is the main artery of the Norwegian transport network. The remaining bottlenecks must be removed, and the progeny must also be ensured in the winter months through the Troms and over the Kvänang Mountains. Completion of E8 towards Tromsø and E10 from Evenes towards Lofoten are other key sections to provide North Norway with a forward-looking road network. Finally, for the Right, the future transport solution in the North also includes a good flight offer, modern airports, good ports and the continuation of state purchases of services at Hurtigruten.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2530	It has been a great day, and the frames around with lined people who have also invited out to great music have been staunch. It is also a good day for us who represent different states around, and I want to link some words to how happy we are in the Center Party for what is happening – and will happen – in Northernland. In the Nordic region, E6 is a strong priority. We are able to present the Helgeland package, where you will see operations, maintenance and investment in the same solution, without OPS. So that's a good thing. This is more about getting good solutions. It's a package from the county border to the North Trøndelag and to the Salt Mountain. It's very important. E6 Saltdal with connection to the Mountain will be in place. The start of the E6 at the Kråkmofjellet should be in place, it will be around Ballangen, and we will continue the work that is going on at Hålogalandsbrua, which is a large and innovative project for the whole county. Working with Rv. 80 until Bodø continues. E10 from the Lofoten and the Vesterålen to Ofoten is proposed as a priority project. It's incredibly important. Ofotbanen is being upgraded, the Nordlandsbanen is being controlled remotely from the lake to Bodø. We also see that it is important to strengthen the Nordlandsban in terms of ore transport, in view of Rana Gruber's commitment. The salt pendulum is further prioritised. There is money allocated to a new station on the transverse, and we get a concept selection for electrification of the Nordlandsbahn. It's very important. Ports, fairways and entrances shall be upgraded for 1.5 billion. kr in Nordland – the entrance to Bodø, Rana and Lake Sandness, as well as many fairways. Five fishing ports – Napp, Hovden, Røst, Andrenes and Laukvik – are prioritised. We have also received a note on Ballstad in West Wagøy in view of the process of progress towards rolling, which may provide opportunities for strengthening and development of that port as well. Stokka and Stokmarknes airports shall be extended in 2014. A new airport shall be built at Hauan in Mo in Rana and subsequently also in Lofoten. Processes relating to the upgrading and acquisition of the airport at Bodø have also been noted. Nordic countries have come out very well in their national transport plan and are increasing their share of investment. However, I would like to point out one project that I am concerned about to be realized towards the next rolling, and there are the tunnels on the E6 northward towards Hamarøy. As I said, I am very satisfied with the Nordic profile. My concern is that if a blue-blue government comes to power, which disagrees so much on funding, it can create uncertainty about the implementation of the important projects that I have now mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2549	Like very many before me, I'm also going to use my own family as a starting point, and that's Buskerud. There are many road projects mentioned both in the NTP from the government and in the Committee's comments. Even I have followed a special road calculation in this process, because I think it can be a good temperature meter in terms of the level of ambition of the government. That's the distance rv. 35 from Hokksund to Åmot. It's approx. Two miles long. It is a tribal road of national importance and an important piece in the so-called ring 4 around Oslo, and not least it is a road map of great local importance, because it is heavily trafficked, inflicted by accidents and intrusive also in other ways in the communities and municipalities concerned. What does the government in its NTP say about rv? 35 Hokksund – Against? Nothing – not a word! So there wasn't a lot of ambition to track. Then I'm excited about the committee comments and what the government says there. In this way, red-greens indicate that there is a need to plan this route — the need for planning. Then it is no wonder that I remember Nils Kjær's words about the middle road «between almost nothing and absolutely nothing». That's the government's ambition for an important route in my home country. The greater the joy is when I read that the Right with the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party write that this must be put by funds in the first half of the planning period, and that we must start the construction of a narrow four-field road in the second half of the planning period. It shows a level of ambition, it shows implementation, and together with the other good and new ideas and better solutions in the Right notes, I am optimistic about the choice of the harvest, where we can meet the voters with an offensive message of travel, also about a road map that is almost not at all mentioned by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2560	Several red-green representatives today have talked about the Stortinget now getting a historic journey promise, and there's no way how much new asphalt, rail and public transport we're going to get. I think some of the challenge is that these are promises that the citizens have heard over and over again, also when what is now approaching choices. The challenge is that the citizens do not see the results, but hear the beautiful promises. I can take an example from my own home country when we talk about the intercity triangle. Year after year – in fact decades after decades – we have talked about the need to build double tracks all the way down to Halden. But despite these promises, we see that under today's government there has hardly been a millimetre of railway built through Eastfold, and then it helps very little with new promises. I think one of the challenges is that we don't have a powerful enough government, as abilities and will grant the money that's needed, the money that we actually have. The report of the Central Statistical Office of 24 April this year, the press effects in the Norwegian economy of increased investment in transport, shows that we can spend almost 50 billion dollars. kr extra a year for transport investment without overestimated the economy. When we have this space of action, it is strange that today's government prefers to continue an unsocial and bureaucratic toll solution, especially when we know that up to 40 pst. of the money collected, it goes away from collection costs and interest costs. Investing in transport is not waste, but it is a sensible investment that benefits current and future generations and businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2571	A large part of the national roads have been transferred to the county municipalities. All state politicians were not as excited about it, and we must be so honest and say that not all the roads were in top order. In other words, it was a gift from the state that not everyone was equally happy about. In 2014, half a billion dollars will be allocated to county councils for roads and road maintenance. It's a contribution that the county councils are going to make good use of. Something else interesting has happened. The county councils that accepted this – in part reluctantly – have proved to be good road owners. It's high activity, it's used a lot more than what the state contributes, and I'm trying to say it's used where it's most needed. State policies are more detailed and can give more priority to them. Although there were skeptical souls when this was adopted, it has turned out that it was a reasonable decision to leave this field to the county councils. Ports and fairways are often invisible, with the more important construction works. Norway is a coastal nation and must keep its ports in order and its fairways safe and deep enough. The red-green government must be praised for not only putting it on the visible structures but also those under water. As rapporteur, one of my greatest political victories was to get muddy Havøysund port. It is not shown, but there are no boats that are fixed, and the fishing industry can take in several bigger boats than before. Also in this planning period, funds will be made available to ports in Finnmark – Mehamn, Båtsfjord, Breivikbotn and Kamøyvær in the first period – in total 205 million. kr. In the last period, it is to be built in Sørvær, Skarsvåg, Kiberg, Gamvik, Gäsvær and Svartnes for within 100 million. kr. There's also a big and necessary bet on E6 west of Alta. This distance is the winner of the Finnmark NTP, and it will be fine. It's going to be a safe and modern road. What we've seen so far of what's done with the road is very good. In addition, masses extracted from this route shall be used to extend the runway at Alta aerodrome, cf. the Committee's comments. This allows long-term planning, linking projects and thinking about infrastructure as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2590	On Friday, I will be celebrating the 75th anniversary of the Sørlandsbanen. Then it's very nice to have the attitude from the Transport Committee to this anniversary event, because we've been given an insight into the implementation of a concept currency settlement, KVU, for the interconnection of the Sørlandsbanen and Vestfoldbanen in the first part of the planning period. Once a KVU has been implemented in the first part of the planning period, the next revision of the transport plan will allow us to have a final impact on and final plan for the implementation of the so-called ‘genist bill’ that connects the two routes. This will lead initially to an hour shorter travel time from the South to Oslo. After a while, we'll have reduced running time on the Westfold Railway, so we'll come down for three hours from Kristiansand to Oslo. Then there is no need to take flights from Kristiansand to Oslo. Then it's practically as fast to travel by train as by plane, and it's much more appropriate to come from the center to the center. This will provide a real boost for a comfortable, efficient and environmentally friendly transport between South and Oslo. I also want to mention another thing in the NTP that is important for environmentally friendly transport, and it is the introduction of the whole-hearted urban environment agreements. Some of the cloud with the community urban environment agreements is that they should have a time horizon of 10 to 20 years. This means that we can now plan public transport with the same horizon as a long-term road development plan. It's one of the things that makes it possible for us to have effective transport planning. This has tended to have a long-term road and public transport plan in the short term. The economic benefits of a long-term commitment to public transport have not been achieved and can save on investment in offensively investing in collective solutions. I will finally read something that scares me. There is a comment from the Progress Party in the option where it says: ‘These members disagree with the government’s third main objective of ‘restricting greenhouse gas emissions, reducing environmental impacts’, etc. It shows what kind of transport we get if we get a government shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2606	The President asks the representatives to deal with the length of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2609	We experience here that not all – but almost all – members of the Stortinget and the government have one purpose, and it is a desire to spread as much fear as possible of tomorrow that another government will be a big game of chance. It highlights doomsday prophecies and how cruel it would have to be, because there is a disagreement about toll policy. Yes, we disagree on the toll policy. But it must also be that it is not the Storting – but the people in elections – who decide how the Storing should be composed after 9 September. The representative Freddy de Ruiter says that the Progress Party does not have a coherent policy. But in fact, every year we send our budget alternative to control at the Statistical Central Bureau. The answer that comes back, says that there would be a little less unemployment and a little lower interest rate and inflation with the Advance Party's budget proposal. If it's irresponsible, I don't know what to call very much different. He also refers to the use of tolls. The use of tolls is very expensive. When the Stortinget went into Alta west, Stortinget decided that there would be a toll financing of 160 million. kr. But to collect the money with the costs involved, the total package will be 350 million. kr. So it's $190 million. NOK 160 million. kr. It is not surprising that we have a climate debate in Norway as we fire the crows in this country. I have to say, what is the alternative to a new government? We all know that we have had nothing but chaos. It's chaos in hospital and health policy. There is too little investment and poor structures in transport policy. We saw yesterday that SV became a supporter of the Workers' Party in defence matters, just as if someone who wanted a strong defence. We see it's chaos about the Lofoten and the Westphalian. There is chaos in immigration and integration policy, and I have not taken into account that we have a control and constitution committee that has never had more to do than it has been for the whole period. Had it not been for the government to sit with a clear majority, we all know that there had been far more than one state council that should have gone off.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2620	The progress party is very concerned with infrastructure and road. Therefore, we allow more road and infrastructure than any other party. We want to invest 45.5 billion. kr more per year than most people want. We do that because it's very worthwhile to invest in it, and it's particularly profitable in the West. Why is it particularly profitable in the West? Yeah, that's where the value creation happens. The largest export company we have is Hordaland. It is clear that if one who works in the oil industry comes half an hour or an hour late for work, or that goods and products are late for work, it may have high socio-economic costs, which are, of course, far greater than if a bureaucrat in Oslo gets in line and arrives late for work. There are many good projects that the Progress Party has prioritised in its alternative to the National Transport Plan. The cross-connection, which will connect North Hordland with Askøy and Eyegarden, is a good project. It will deliver good socio-economic returns. Of course, it also applies to ferries-free E39, with investment in tunnels, such as the Nyborg Tunnel. Ferry-free E39 will be very rewarding. Well, calculations show that only between Stavanger and Bergen will it bring a social gain of 10 billion. kr per year. This is not the Progress Party that has calculated – it is Professor Victor Norman who has done. He once has our State Council for the Right. He shows that it is to invest approx. 30 B.C.E. kr will give a return of 10 billion. kr. Most people realize that about one, for example: invests 3 million. kr. in something that will give you 1 million. kr in return every year in the future, it is a good project. Then one should also realize that investing 30 billion. kr in something that gives a return of 10 billion. kr in the year each year ahead, also being a good project. He makes a commitment, and that's that it has to be toll-free. It is only without tolls that can ensure a well-functioning labour market and lower transport costs for businesses – we secure safe jobs. The advance party, together with the Right, has taken a position on the trasé elections in Hordaland, the middle line, with a flow bridge over the Bear Fjord. The progress party wants to build with shorter construction time than 20 years. We want project organisation and funding. This is a very profitable project we cannot wait for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2631	First, I would like to say that the Advance Party would send its calculations to the Right and see if they agreed. It would have been a little bit more interesting than hearing about the calculations from the SSB. The problem here is that you don't agree on any of the world's things. On the other hand, the government parties have agreed on the greatest movement effort ever. Since SV joined the government, we have increased the appropriations by 65 pst. since the Right plunged the country. We've almost quadrupled railway investment, and we're doing a lot of projects. We've even been able to double the bet on bicycle roads, which is so important for a lot of urban environments. I can talk for myself sail. For us old ladies, who have grandchildren and want them to ride to school, it's really nice and really important. It's important for the climate and not least for people's well-being. It's important to make good urban environments and good areas where we're a little bit more likely to use the bike and where we also dare to let kids and grandchildren out. This is the most important thing for us to get started. I have been in politics for so long that I remember when both the Right Party and the Advance Party called for the railway not to be the transport solution for the future. On the contrary, SV was ridiculed because we wanted to bet on the railway. Now everyone understands that it's important. It makes me a little happy, because it shows that SV has an impact on a lot of its thoughts, and that we are more forward-looking than many of the parties that would put the railway down many years ago. The investment in rail and public transport in and between cities is important. And then roads in the districts are necessary. It is a priority SV stands for. In terms of rail, passenger traffic is very important, but I want to hit a blow for freight. Now there are some new leaders I'm very pleased with, and that's talking about national strategies for goods on the track. Because if you're going to transport goods, it's the long distance we're talking about. Then there is no spot investment here or there that applies. Some of the projects that have been said to be consistent – and that means, as you know, that you want to open something – are the Rørosbanen and the Solørbanen. This could mean getting two tracks between the central east and central Norway, so that you can run goods in both directions quickly. In this context, the focus on Kongsvingerbahn and any freight terminal on Kongsvinger is also very important. It's a traffic hub I would like to see larger parts of the rest of the country looking and interested in, because it's not only important for goods, but also for a so-called relief strategy for where it's great and nice to live, which is not the central Oslo, but which is close, and which can offer cheaper homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2642	Today there are many who have stood on this pulpit and greet you at home, as it is called. Let me also mention something about bets or not bets in Middle Norway, more specifically in the Nord-Trøndelag, for which the two of us who are from there in the committee have worked a little bit for. E6 through the tround layers is a very important trajectory. It binds the parts of North Norway and South Norway together. It is partially exposed, partly fluctuated and partly heavily stressed by traffic. A part of the national transport plan has come to the conclusion that it will now be invested on the E6 north of Grong and further to Northern Ireland. Of course, we are very pleased about that – there is a lot to be done. It is important for traffic that connects those parts of the country. Measures for E6 Stjørdal–Steinkjer are within the final period of the plan. We're not quite satisfied with that. That is why I am very pleased that we have been given the government parties that this route must be planned and started in the first period. It's because it means you have to have a tunnel through the Forbord mountain to do something about that distance. It is rascaled, and if it is closed, there are no bypasses. So we're very happy that we've got a note from the majority of the committee that you're in on it. In the case of Stjørdal-Trondheim, annual traffic is already so high that this requires a four-field road. We are pleased that the government has put in new tunnels in the last period – that is, we are pleased that it has put it in, but not that it is in the last period. We therefore have a note together with the Christian People's Party that it must be forced into the first period. So to what takes me even more, and it's electrification that railway in Norway. Earlier emphasis has been placed on the Østerdal Straseen and, of course, the Nordlandsbanen which should have been electrified. But what has the highest priority is the Meråkerbahnen and the Tronderbanen. It binds a good working region together. The path is closed today, the material is on its way out. That is why it is very important to do so. We are so happy that it has been included in the plan. The Council of State has declared that it will come in the first period. What worries us is that there's too little money in this. That is why we are pleased that the entire committee supports us in the fact that this must be planned and started in the first period. We are very pleased about that. Besides, it's very important that we get E14, which is the connection to Sweden. There's a lot of goods being transported today, and it's great that it comes with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2657	Let me be the first to be boasted by the government and the Minister of Transport in one area: it is now that priority is given to the Trønderbanen and the Meråkerbanen in terms of electrification. At the same time, I note that the first time was a big campaign case in Trøndelag when I made my own election to the county council in 1995. That it would take almost 20 years for you to comply with this is not so much to boast about. But now that you've got it in, it's positive and it's long-lasting, and we're happy about that. Then the glory will cease. I want to focus on things like, among other things, stood in the nation today. The Council of State referred to a comment from the Right and Advance Party and said that we have no district policy. She referred to our note, where it says that «the market and free choice of people shall govern the pattern of residence in the future». Yes, I'm proud to belong to a party that says that people's free elections will decide where they want to live. What's the alternative, the opposite? Yes, it's forcing people to move. It's been the Central Party – the party of the Council of State – trying through the obligation to live for so many years without success, that I think they might have been going away from that strategy. The most important thing for rural policy is to have a modern, forward-looking and good infrastructure — road networks — linking countries, counties and regions together. The government of the day will not be honoured. Take my own county, Nord-Trøndelag: I record that you hit your chest and say you should give priority to E6. Whithamar-Åsen shall be initiated during the period. Stjørdal-Trondheim shall be started by four-field road during the planning period. Only the latter section is proposed as four-field. That means – in my head – that you're happy to start with this in 2020. That it would take almost 50 years before we get a good, modern and forward-looking E6 between Trondheim and Stjørdal, I don't think it's good district policy. This leads to increased costs for business, and it puts jobs – in what we both know so well – at risk. In addition, I record that much of this funding is to be done through toll financing. You send the bill, almost $6 billion. kr, to the North Rhine-Westphalian car user and to the North Rhine-Westphalian business community. If the Council of State contacts one of the major transport companies in the Nord-Trøndelag, Leiv Sand, who already pays NOK 100 000 a month in tolls to carry goods and services around in Trøndelag, I think she is soon told that there is no big call from his side to get more tolls. The costs are high enough, the workplaces are already threatened. I wish the Council of State saw it into a district policy context. I am pleased that the Progress Party is doing so, and is taking good care of the districts through the transport policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2674	For the next ten years, the mountains and neighbouring neighbouring municipalities will experience an investment tree in the field of transport: E39 Wågsbotn–Hylke, 110 million. kr E39 Nyborg–Klauvaneset, SEK 3.6 billion. NOK E39 Svegatjørn–Rådal, 6 billion. Dr. rv. 555 Sotra connection, 7 billion. the recently adopted Bergen programme, including: Railway to Flesland, 9.420 b.w. kr double tracks on the railway from Bergen to Arna, 3,2 billion. K Farlei measures towards Bergen port, 250 million. kr new terminal at Bergen Airport, Flesland, 3,6 billion. kr. So in sum, this is going to be over 33 billion. kr to transport in Bergen, and between Bergen and the nearest neighbouring municipalities. Even though it may have been so that it pays to talk more about people politically than about billions, I would nevertheless claim that these – well over 33 billion. kr – will do well to make it easier to be human in the years that come for those who live in and around Bergen. But not enough: In addition, large government funds are available. further urban development towards Åsane, through the ‘cohesive urban environment agreements’. I also believe that the Bergens region will draw a lot from the government's bike strategy. Then we get a concept evaluation to finally arrive at the logistics hub for goods in the Bergens area, where the issue of port and rail terminal co-location is also considered. The Ringerix track is not in my home state, Hordaland, but you are happy for both the resources inside the NTP, and the clarifications we have received through the committee setting that there is no need for new KVU, that state regulation should be evaluated, and the clarification that the project is planned so that it can be started as early as possible in the last six-year period. El6 between Bergen and Voss and between Voss and Sogn and Fjordane border receive extra raspberries and a plan for new trajectories. El34 is given a lift with the construction of the Stordal Tunnel, which is now in the merger position, and not least that it is opened so that we can get an exploration of the tunnels over Haukelijell. In addition, everything that others have been about is related to the debt of E134 in Telemark and in Buskerud. Fishing port in Austevoll and Bømlo, and that Stord Airport gets 12 million. kr in annual operating aid, does not contribute to making this plan any worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2718	OPS provides both benefits and disadvantages, but it provides first and foremost some solutions to the many challenges we face. It is relevant for some sections, central sections, and should be used where the gain is greatest. But first I would like to say that in Hedmark you can now see the contours of a good transport structure, it has to be admitted. If you see in these flood times that the electrification of the Røros and Solørbahnen actually opens double tracks to Trondheim – here I agree with my co-representative, Karin Andersen, for once – and also provides a relief via Kongsvinger and gets a greater focus on the possibilities for Sweden, this is good. But it's too slow. I have been listening to both the representative Storberget and the representative Lillehovde talk about E6. E6 through Ringsakes and northwards, and the majority of them write about there, is probably primarily a result of the opposition's pressure. I'll start thinking about how many projects to start at the very beginning of the next planning period. Here I think the government is running an anticipatory game that doesn't stand back for any of what they're attacking the opposition for. It was, however, the dogmatic posts of the representative Sønsterud that inspired the most. It illustrated quite well why the Labour Party exhibition window, Hedmark, does not evolve like the rest of the country – you do not like to earn money, and you do not want to do anything new. Then there won't be much development. It was basically a downfall to all the new ideas that can make it possible to solve the challenges faster. What challenges do we face? OPS is not a religion, but it has to solve some challenges. It provides a solution in terms of context – not a clumsy expansion. You ask most people out there, they don't understand why there's still a few short distances between two newly built people. It gives a significantly faster expansion. According to TØI in today's business, it's almost half a expansion period. It is remarkable that the OPS projects are still being used by the Bondevik II Government as a benchmarking for state projects today. In fact, this should have been an increase in productivity during the period. It provides a control of cost excesses and a risk relief that can be very good. And not least, it gives a solution to what the state likes least, and it's maintenance. It surprises me that you are not willing to see that OPS – used target awareness, towards some of these challenges and the most urgent sections – is a very good solution. That is why a new government should come after 9 September.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2733	The debate has been held for a while, and it shows that transport is a topic that engages – that is good. That's because it's about people's everyday lives all over the country. It is important to deliver ambitious but at the same time realistic and feasible plans. With the plan presented by the government today, which the Stortinget is currently dealing with, many important transport needs will be met in the next few years. I thought I would comment on a few points in the debate so far. One concerns OPS. I think it's important to distinguish between OPS as a construction method and as a financing. As a center party, I have no ideological resistance to OPS – I just think we shouldn't build the road any more expensive than what we need. I think that very many of the reasonable aspects of OPS as a construction method are completely possible to adopt under public law. In the case of risk-taking, the contract strategies, in terms of implementation and full funding, can be based on predictability, in terms of operation and maintenance, and on the speed at which it is built. But what's not wise is to build roads more expensive than what you have to do through OPS funding. It's not wise to postpone the payment for 25 years, so you push it in front of you to future governments. Then OPS appears to be a simple solution to try to promise more than what you really have money to do. That's also what I feel that the Right answer here today is. The government wants to pay while we're building, but going through the methods and organisation that OPS entails is no problem. It can be a good thing, because it's not the state that builds, it's the private that builds for the state today, private entrepreneurs. It is fully possible to implement part of it under public control. Implementing capacity is important in the future – faster planning, predictable funding, deadlines and coordination of objections. Several of those things have been the subject of today's debate, and it's important things, but the most important thing to get better implementation is that one has a clear funding base. And that's the question: how does it work if it fundamentally disagrees with funding in the transport sector? Some of the issues facing opposition parties here today are that they are unable to agree on how to finance the road and that they are not willing to prepare it for the voters before the elections. It is simply not about promising the most, but about keeping it a law, and agreeing on how to finance this sector in the years to come – it is absolutely fundamental to its ability to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2751	I wonder why more representatives from the Progress Party are up and criticise the government for tolls. The right, the left and the Christian People's Party are for tolls. It becomes extra special because, in particular, the Right is also for OPS, and with OPS where there is a toll fraction, there is more toll. So it's going to be more to pay for the drivers. So that criticism is incomprehensible. It is clear that the voters should not be given any clarification before the elections – that is the strategy. The voters shall not be given any clarifications on tolls. I guess it's just up to the voters -- that's what's being said here today, it's up to the voters to decide, yeah. One shall not be given any clarifications about the OPS and the other financing either. What we can say is that there are many unanswered questions, but there is one main element of uncertainty, and there are fifty road projects that we don't know about being financed, if that's wrong, that one gets a new majority for the harvest. Let's hope, at least for this sector and other sectors, that it doesn't. Another question that I would like to challenge is: Why do we not get any answer from the Right on why it is wise to buy now, and pay later? Because that's what OPS is. And why don't we get an answer to what the actual final calculation is? The representative Gundersen says that OPS is not a religion. Well, for the right, it's become a religion. So fast to the room, to East Agder and a little to West Agder: E39. I'm glad we've had a round there and that there's a new round of order and priorities on the E39. We acknowledge that the E39 must have a significant upgrade in the next few years – then I will take in Kristiansand–Stavanger. We're glad to see you. 9 is good on track. We notice that it's asking for a few more dollars, but it's showing the time. I'm sure it can be solved, there's a good deal of money inside, even in the first period. Tvedestrand–Arendal – today’s government has got the project into NTP, after it was out. Today's government has taken the burden of dividing the boom between Grimstad and Lillesand, to ensure planning and additional means of planning. I have a hard time seeing that the difference between moving 3 pst. of the total frame from the last to the first period shall mean start-up over one year earlier, as claimed by the Right here in the Chamber. I am much more concerned that Tvedestrand-Arendal may be scraped as a result of disagreement on tolls between the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2768	When we get so far into the debate, it's also that the opposition has to be able to be measured on its alternative transport plans, which they've spent a lot of time selling out. The Chairman of the Committee Hareide believes it is too small on the railway and presents an alternative from the Christian People's Party. By 2026 he will have double tracks in InterCity in place, he claims. The solution is to give 6 billion. kr more than the government in the next ten years, to 2024 – i.e. that the representative and the Christian People's Party will set up with let me say 60 billion. kr in the last two years. He could ask the railway manager how much she needs to put it in place. Everyone understands that this is not a matter of touch. It's not for believers. There are promises that the Christian People's Party will never fulfill, with the policy they put up. The working party and the government promise no more than we can keep, and have money for it. We have an ambitious plan, and we're going to deliver on it. So to the right -- they're nothing better. A bird whispered in my ear that if, against assumption, there was a government change for the autumn, the setting we are now dealing with is easy to take care of. There are many promises and references to the need for acceleration of small and large-scale measures on which the Right is not close to delivering within its increased framework — 6-7 pst. in addition to the Government's proposals. There's a lot of words, but they're not going to bite them in themselves, because we're planning to implement our plan over the next four years. So no, the right can't solve everything the game will solve, or find room for everything it says it's going to over the next four years, by just repeating ‘new ideas’, ‘better solutions’ and ‘needs for renewal’ – they have already added that gain as a balancing in their alternative transport plan. So to OPS, the right is proposing 17 projects. Although the right-wing rhetoric of OPS has now gone from hallelujah to one of the methods, the lot remains convinced of the excellence. If OPS is so excellent, why is the deployment of InterCity not part of the OPS projects? Isn't it among the 17 most important projects? Is the Ringerix Railway, which is the only OPS project in railway development, more important? Perhaps the representative of Schou will be able to answer that question. Then you are critical of bureaucrats, while complaining that things take too long – projects are apparently delayed. Imagine, then, that the Road Administration and the Railway Agency had not hired people to take care of the increased tasks. Then there had been a furrow from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2781	The representative Arne Sortevik is the spokesman for case No. 10 and may speak for up to 3 minutes if the article concerns case No. 10th@item: inlistbox Otherwise, the representative has spoken twice earlier, and if the article is not about case No. 10, the President will allow a brief note of up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2784	The case concerns the E16, the material content of the case on the E16, Innst. 397 S. The basis for the case is the race-related E16, but also the widespread need for racial protection of Norwegian roads. The reason for the case is the need for road safety of E16 Bergen–Voss, one of the country’s most accident-affected sections, but also the need for more means of road safety for Norwegian roads in general, and European roads in particular. In its alternative proposal for the NTP, the Progress Party has invested more money for racial protection, 6 billion. kr more to the highways and 6 billion. kr more to the county road network. And we've put in a comprehensive traffic security package of 10 billion. Total kr. I remember that E16 is a European road. The European roads are Norway's main road network. When the main road network is closed, as we have experienced with closed E16, the main connection closes. The roundabout – where it is possible at all – is long and bad. We got that in the West and in Hordaland to the full experience when E16 was thus closed for a period of 12 days in April this year. Close roads, unsafe roads and bad roads are poor conditions for business – for all users. There have been warnings from both government councils in the Chamber and from a number of government party representatives today about the economic consequences of more racial protection – both by national roads and by the county road network. These are warnings we reject. It is in no way demonstrated that the enlarged framework of the Progress Party, inter alia: for racial protection and traffic protection of the whole road network, including the E16, will destroy the Norwegian economy. On the contrary, the framework is firmly anchored in the SSB calculations. The impact on business will be a major improvement. So the effect is the exact opposite of what the two state councils have warned against here in the hall. There'll be better conditions for business. Reduced distance and reduced operating costs. There will be safer and more reliable transport when we get roads without race. Not least, we need to ensure that the E16 between Bergen and Voss is one of the roads that will be secured – and which will become safer when the Progress Party increases the focus on racial protection and road safety. The case rapporteur for the NTP has asked whether there is a non-socialist policy on transport. It exists. If there is no fear of a change of government shadows for hearing and vision, it is clear that there is renewal between the civil parties in terms of planning, organisation and implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2795	The proposal for a national transport plan gives full gas in the future. For the Workers' Party, it is important to use the whole country – creating more jobs throughout the Kingdom. Of course, traffic is one of the keys to it. Railway is an important field of activity. Intercity with double tracks to Hamar by the end of 2024 is important to my county. The same is the Kongswingerbahn, which has been given a significant boost in recent years. The construction of new – or extension of existing – crossing tracks is important here. It will mean a travel time from Kongsvinger to Oslo in less than 1 hour. 30 pst. of the timber transport currently on the road can now be transferred to the road. In future, the handling of goods in the East must be resolved. It's limited how much Alnabru and Oslo Havn can grow. The areas along Kongswingerban may be relevant for a freight terminal or relief terminal in the long term. There's plenty of land and, not least, cheap plots. Electrification of the Rørosbanen and Solørbanen is mentioned. I will also mention the E6 along Mjösa and the further development of roads through the Østerdalen, in Solør, between Elverum and Hamar, and not least the continuous expansion of remaining sections of E16 between Kongswinger and Klöfta. Of course, it is important for further growth and development in Hedmark and its hinterland. It is also important for the Oslo area — to address the population growth that has been notified. To the OPS debate. The right obviously doesn't like me talking about experiences from the United Kingdom – how the experience of OPS funding shows how private companies speculate in making money, at the expense of the community. They thought I was unfine, but calling me a communist was probably something to do with it. I would like to stress that neither I nor the Workers' Party are against making private money, of course we are not. When Gundersen manages to say that Sønsterud does not benefit anyone from making money, and that therefore there is very little happening in Hedmark, it is – with respect to reporting – customs. Furthermore: The Gundersen may not have been included in the hour in the case of Hedmark. That's where it's happening very well at the moment. I can't get into everything right now, but I recommend Gundersen to follow along a little bit more. How quickly you can build a road: the right repeats and repeats – now last at the representative Fleet – that there is no project built as quickly as the OPS project in the South. I repeat: the joint project along Mjösa is being built as quickly. I stress: we are for more comprehensive development, for predictable financing and faster deployment. That's exactly what's in the NTP we're dealing with right now. To the debate on the costs of OPS and again to Trygve Hegnar, who has pointed out that ‘no one borrows cheaper than the State, because no one is a safer payer’. And on the other hand, ‘But with OPS, private financial corporations and contractors take over the entire project. They're borrowing the money. They're expanding. And sits on a gold-plated contract in which the joint obligation to pay rent over a period that may be from 25 to 60 years.» Finally, the plan we are now examining is good. It does not control the Norwegian economy, which would have gone beyond other important societal tasks. The plan we are adopting today will provide full speed for Norwegian transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2826	A lot of people are accusing us of being slow. But if there's one area where we're not slow, but impatient, it's the road area. If there's one thing we don't need in Trøndelag, there's postponement, delays and decision-making. E6 is not just the main transport project in Trøndelag, it is the country's main airway from north to south. The municipalities along the E6 south of Trondheim have agreed on trajectory and toll collection. Now it's our job to reward the constructive consensus with a rapid expansion of the important and dangerous road section. It is therefore disappointing that government parties push the realisation of the project out on time. I'm glad that the Right has a different level of ambition than the Government. The construction of E6 between Trondheim and Ulsberg must be ensured as a priority and progress, so that the very accident-affected road section of the main year between Trondheim and Oslo is upgraded. We also need to be willing to apply new ideas and better solutions. Therefore, the Right has pointed to OPS as an appropriate method of rapid and continuous road development with good quality. In Trøndelag we have very good experience with OPS projects, especially on the E39 between Øysand and Thamshamn. Even worse is the location of railway terminals and freight hubs in the Trondheims area. Today’s terminal has limited capacity and does not allow an environmentally friendly transition from road to road. On the contrary, we have to assume that an increasing proportion of freight transport to and from Tøndelag has to go on a road network that screams after upgrading. For Trondheim Municipality, this delay means that urban development on Brattöra is being put on hold for an indefinite period of time. The right refers to the fact that the transport industry has pointed out that the location of a rail terminal south of Trondheim is the second best solution, both transport economic and environmental. The municipalities involved are also positive for such a solution. While the red-green parties in the county will have a freight terminal east of Trondheim, there is great scepticism for a terminal in the municipalities concerned. As we say in the Right: if you want to get home quickly and safely, we need to apply new ideas and better solutions. It provides right-wing transport policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2841	I have followed this debate. It has already been said, of course, that this is a very big and important day for Norwegian transport. It's not to take in too much to say that it's the largest in very many decades. I also want to make it very clear that it serves the Minister for Transport Arnstad to the credit that she has managed to present such a comprehensive plan, and to which it is actually very much in agreement. There are no parties in the Stortingen that are really going to play on the basics of this transport plan. It serves Arnstad in honor. There is a clear political distinction in this discussion on the issue of realization. For my part, I now heard a final example of this. It was the representative of Gundersen, from Hedmark, who was up here and said that OPS is not a religion for the Right. No, of course that's right, because it's ideology for the Right. I hear someone – including our people – who says they don't get an answer as to why the right parties, especially the Right, will build Norwegian traffic using the OPS model. They're not quite answering, but I'm going to put the answer for them, because it's ideology. The answer is that in all areas of society — including this area — the right will distort the economic development of the country privately. They want private – through the market mechanism – to steer developments in this area as well. Religion is not, but ideology is. That is the background to the Right’s wish to use OPS as its instrument. Finally, a big hurrah for the Ringeriksbanen. In an hour, probably with others here, I have to eat soft cake. I'm glad. I'm just going to use the last few seconds to say that in the case of the Ringerix Railway and the decision that is now being made, it's a decision that the Ringerix Railway should be realised. Now it's to be built. It is not a final decision, but it is a decision that obliges the government to plan the Ringerix Railway for effective implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2852	The red-green government has made a record bet on transportation. There are several from the opposition's side that suggest that it is wrong – yes, I wonder if one of the representatives thought it was poor to see him eight years back in time. It must be allowed to show that the red-green government has followed up NTP not only one, but twice, crowns for heads. It must be allowed to say that there is a difference between governments that promise, and governments that follow up, heads for heads. It must be allowed to say that experience counts. Who here in this room would build a house without being sure that the contractor set aside enough means to complete the house? It must mean something to have delivered. It is attempted from the opposition's side to minimize the issue of toll inconsistency. No, it's not a trifle. Throughout the summer, the representative Hoksrud will stand on a stand down here in the street and vote on the Progress Party, and we will get rid of the tolls. Then the voters will go three steps down the street, and there they will meet Greece. The representative of Greece is going to say that there's one thing they can be sure of, is that the tolls are going to pass, otherwise we're not going to be able to build the roads we've promised the voters. Well, I don't mean that this is a trifle. It is not possible for that selector to come past the two arcs and be sure what he gets if one should end up in a situation with a blue-blue government. New roads, bridges and tunnels open up new construction and labour markets, creating great value creation and increased employment. It is very good that the district and regional messages also point to what this aspect means for road construction. Traffic is a major part of traffic on a road, but not least in a very large number of cases, local traffic, the traffic that is all from public transport to bus and work commuting, is at least as large. It is therefore very important that the government also emphasise the principle of building roads and choosing trassars, etc. Let me finally get the easy city ship's tunnel. It's kind of nice for all of us who have worked on that project to see that it's now lifted even a big and important step closer to a realization. That means that we are together a step closer to achieving the goal of getting more transport out of our roads and into the cold, which is a goal I have understood that we are gathering about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2863	The Government’s national transport plan is a strong priority for road, rail and ports. We are reducing the distance costs, and that is a very good result that the government, at the Minister of Transport of the Central Party, is presenting here today. As a rich country, Norway pays the transport investment in the same year as we get the bill, to put it simply. If a road is built in 2013 to 1 billion. kr, a road to be paid over the state budget, all the money that the road costs is paid in 2013. A rich state pays cash. One does not have to defer payment in future instalments of interest. That's right, it gives transparency of government expenditure, and all amounts are within the rule of action. However, this is very demanding when it comes to giving priority to transport investments on a cash basis against welfare improvements, which we know will be current expenditures every year. That's why it's extra good what's happening here, how one manages to prioritize investments so high. At the same time, it is important that governments show willingness to change. In Chapter 6.2 of the NTP, the government has described its level of ambition: predictable funding and rational implementation. A new scheme for specific priority projects, where progress is being made in the projects determining the appropriations for the priority projects, shows the renewal of the organisation of investments. However, the innovation is consistent with the cash principle: do not allow future growth to pay old investments, have political governance of the state’s road/railway investments in the same way as in the county, because the infrastructure is important for people – and point three: good project management from road and railway works and organisation for competition among large and small entrepreneurs. Sokna–Örgenvika is an example of this new model. A skilled contractor, Höhre, has the main project, and it's competent plant managers from the state. It's going on. It's in front of its time. The right-hand principal, the representative of Greece, says a lot about less political interference, new deployment and funding models – OPS and all – and comes to the point about how to solve the Georgian knot. They're gonna be okay with that. It is in the proposals Nos. 62 and 63, where the Right has now given its support to the former solution of the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, namely to transform the Railway Agency and the State Road Service into its own economic-legal companies that can borrow money, thus circumventing a rule of action. It's glittering, but it's a completely wrong solution. Rich countries pay in cash and want to give political priority to these key investments.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2876	Having been sitting and listening to parts of this debate and the touching concern of the red-green politicians in this Chamber about how the Progress Party and the Right are going to manage to finance roads, I really wish they had used the same concern to the major challenges we have in the transport sector. Rarely have we heard so many praises for a plan that we have heard over the NTP today, a document that will go over ten years, which has no commitments behind it, but which is totally dependent on appropriations from year to year. As long as I have been a politician, both municipal and county politicians, I have heard about the very much needed transportation project that it takes too long to complete. It boasts on the inside and out of this room today about the historical bet on traffic, but no one mentions that it is actually the individual resident who has to pay it to the seventh and last. Yes, it's a historic bet and a historic promise, but it's actually in the toll sector. That's the reality of today's NTP. We need political will and action to meet the challenges we face on the road. State Council Arnstad said we don't have to build roads more expensive than we need – but that's exactly what this government is doing. We borrow cheaply to the rest of the world so that they can build roads, we build roads with deposits, we build sections and divides – it's not profitable either. We have to think new, and it's only the Progress Party that dares to do. We've always been ten years ahead of the other parties. We do that here, too, and it'll be a pleasure to see if we can say welcome in a few years' time. In Rogaland, we have many important projects that need to be realised. We're glad that the E39 Rogfast is in place. It is a road that is profitable to build, and then it should be built without tolls. The transport corridor west is hardly any one who has mentioned. It's important to get the other roads in Rogaland. We need four-field roads all the way to Ålgård and to Kristiansand. We need double tracks on the railway, and we don't have time to wait. Traffic is the same as betting on value creation. The Progress Party is concerned about the development we have today. We have to think new. We have to set up an infrastructure company according to the same model as Statnett and Avinor. The Progress Party has ambitions, and we have will. More and more people now see that the right way to go is to get such a company in place. I would like to say to Martin Kolberg: Yes, it is ideology, but it is also political will. The Progress Party has these ambitions. I'm proud to be able to be part of and represent a party that takes these challenges seriously, and that shows the political will to bet on transportation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2895	With the Central Party in government, transportation has become a top priority policy area for the government. With the centre party as part of the red-green government not only the ambitions have increased, we have also followed up the national transport plans with appropriations. This has not always been the case under previous governments. In the Trondheims area, we expect a significant population growth. By 2040, the population is expected to increase by over 30 pst. up to 340000 inhabitants. The Trondheim Package, the Trondheim Environmental Package, has been and will continue to be a central tool to ensure a positive development in urban development, reduced CO2 emissions and better accessibility for all road users. The Environment package prioritises continuing the development of the core network in order to relieve the congestion of the road network in the central urban areas. There is a great deal of consensus about the intentions of the village package. The only thing that has been disagreed about is the burden-sharing between Trondheim and surrounding municipalities. Therefore, I am pleased that the proposition states that once the new toll scheme has been in operation for one year, an evaluation shall be carried out to assess whether the toll collection and use of toll funds has been organised in accordance with the principle of efficiency. I will claim that the continued realisation of the Environmental Package – and everything else in this transport plan – depends on continued red-green government. Today’s opposition parties have widely differing solutions to the transport challenges. They do not agree on the financing model and do not agree on the way forward. The centre party attaches great importance to the development of E6 as one of the main transport years in the country. There are several major and important projects under construction, and many will start up during the planning period. The centre party is pleased that the travel time of E6 Trondheim–Oslo will be significantly reduced and road safety will be improved. The central party believes that it is positive that the municipalities and county councils concerned have a common agreement on the development of the sections E6 and Rv. 3 in Sør-Trøndelag south of Trondheim – with self-financing. It is very positive that the route E6 Trondheim – Oppland border, as well as rv. 3, see under one, as a whole project. Aviation is also an important part of the whole. Predictable operation of the aerodromes is immeasurably important, including in the South Trøndelag. The construction of Ørland as Norway’s fighter base will increase the need for civil scheduled services, in particular between Oslo and Ørland. It is therefore gratifying that the Ministry of Transport is now aiming at concluding an operating agreement with the municipality of Ørland within a framework of 3 million. kr per year. With regard to the ownership announcement of Avinor's activities, I would particularly like to refer to the social mission. The Short-Range Network is an important part of the country’s infrastructure. The arrangements for paying excess aerodromes for the unremunerated aerodromes shall be continued. The red-green government will maintain the regional airport network — unless there is local connection to do something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2920	Today’s national transport plan means a major transport promise for North Norway. The national share of national road investment increases from 10 to 16 pst. One of the big bottlenecks is the transport corridor north of Narvik, which now gets a solution. Hålogalandsbrua shall be completed in the first part of the period. It is set by money to start the upgrade of the E10 and Rv. 85 between Evenes and Sortland. When this is done, the total journey time between Narvik, Lofoten and the Westphalian Sea will be reduced by one hour. It will have very large regional ring-effects. The largest quantities of goods transport and fishing transport in the country are currently available. The upgrading of capacity on Ofotbanen is also very important – 1,6 billion. kr to several crossing tracks for one of the country's most traffic routes. It is also announced in the plan that in connection with the revision there will be completed plans for double tracks at Ofotbanen. That's absolutely necessary. Today, the track is operated by four freight carriers requesting a significant increase in capacity. I see that the Right and Advance Party are proposing the privatisation of Ofotbanen – a competitive outsourcing of operations. It is not surprising, but it is a pointless proposal. If it is completed, the most likely operation will be transferred to LKAB and the Swedish State. I am also pleased with a clear and clear announcement of the construction of a new regular route airport at Helgeland. It is important in this context that the Council of State contributes to the rapid implementation of the announced impact assessment in the region so that construction can begin as soon as possible. It is also gratifying and important that clear comments have been made on the expected reinforcement of the Northern Railway between Mo in Rana and Dunderland, so that this route can withstand larger ore wagons – an exciting initiative to electrify the Northern Railway, a railway line for ore transport in connection with Rana Gruver. National transport plan will mean a very high level of transport and transport in the country, not least in the northern part of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2937	I have to say it has been fascinating to see how what Kernli referred to as a virtually insignificant increase in bet and one of the working methods to get more infrastructure in place is getting so much attention, especially since more – including the Council of State – have been involved that using the OPS method is associated very well. You should take that with you. Lundtigen says that none of the rich people are borrowing money – no, they are paying cash. Yes, if the investment needs and the ability to pay are the same, then it's clear you're doing it. But when the problems are larger, you look at other ways to do it. That makes sense. We do that in all sorts of other contexts. So that's this investment and financing bit of OPS. I come to Ibsen, who adds one of his characters in Peer Gynt a statement: «Where the starting point is craziest, time is the most original result.» With as many assumptions as the red-greens have clearly added to the calculations, it has to be wrong. I wonder if the red-greens can respond to the following – based on e.g. The road we have built in the South: how much has society earned that road that came into place earlier? We have a lot of problems at local level, but what's in a package like this? What did the challenging sulphide-containing mountain, which was much more extensive to treat than what was intended, cost extra? The significant telecoms that were repaired immediately – what had it cost extra, or had it been repaired? The closure of such a route affects what is to be paid by the operator. Accidents on the road do the same thing. How much do you save in reduced accidents by getting started quickly? How much of the capital of this road is going to be borrowed? I can see that the red-greens are saying that everything is going to be borrowed. Yeah, then it's clear that the calculations are going to be like that. We have not in any way said that – depreciation time, maintenance costs – there is much that is wrong here. That's why the result is also going to be wrong. Then I also have to take a little trip back to the E18 in East Agder, where these planning methods disappeared. I realized that the representative de Ruiter could not understand that the lack of planning resources should be so crucial for the start-up. Yes, unless the planning funds are critical – especially when they are halved in relation to what the trades union has said – I understand that he has problems understanding. I understand that it is delaying the project, and I am very pleased that the Right and the others in opposition have therefore said that the planning means need to be put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2955	Our transportation systems are like the circulation of blood in a body. You have to have blood circulation completely into the outermost limbs in order to be able to benefit the whole body and use it. We have to have some major veins that make us get to use the water the least effective. My concern about the government's plan is that it's a planned, massive heart attack. And the heart of such a communication is right down the street here called Oslo Central Station. Oslo will be the heart of communication in Norway. Not starting to plan the construction of a new Oslo tunnel means I'm a planned, massive heart attack. The government has told it to investigate traffic conditions in Oslo. I think that's a wasted red tape job. You should have gone straight and started planning the tunnel. The tunnel itself is the key to making all the major transport systems in the future work. It is the key to make all these terminals work completely optimal. It's about having a heart that pulsates, that has energy, and that has pressure enough to be able to serve the whole country. What the government here is doing is setting up a lot of bureaucrats to assess the overall traffic conditions in the centre, while they should have used them to plan one of the most important keys to make the major transport systems work, namely a new Oslo tunnel. I could have had a lot of objections, but in 3 minutes I'm going to raise two, and my second objection to the government's transport plan is that it is strictly not a plan. There is a summary of a whole set of individual measures that have been clearly negotiated hard between three lots. No one has sat down and thought of what transport systems we need to tackle the climate challenges, to tackle population growth in parts of the country and to address the challenges we face in terms of the business needs of transporting their things. – What challenges does the country have as a nation? No, we have been talking about individual projects between ourselves – in telephone conferences and probably in late night hours – if we are to believe other members and the Council of State. But there's no plan for transportation. There is no plan to tackle the major challenges we face, not to make business grow all over the country, to tackle the major climate challenges, or to make traffic safe for people. These are my two major objections to the plan that lies there. And that's the two things left answer in our alternative NTP that we've presented today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2968	It has been quite clear that the red-greens' strategy today is to create uncertainty associated with a possible change after 9 September. Of course, there are four different parties that have different priorities, but what I can see after nearly eight hours of debate is that I haven't heard of a single project, which is in the red-green plan, to which there is some uncertainty after 9 September. No concrete project is mentioned as being uncertain. Yes, the expansion of InterCity is coming. With a new multiple, full InterCity may come a little earlier. I think the Norwegian people can live well with that. E39 - yes, with a new plural number it may be faster. I also think you can live well with that. That's how I could have gone through the case. And what we can sum up with is that a new multiple agrees on a larger bet and a renewal of the sector. So it's interesting to the right of the State Council on OPS. I think Marit Arnstad is doing a much better job than the boss himself, Jens Stoltenberg, when she talks about this. For her, it is credible when she says that this construction method is better, both in terms of operation, maintenance, risk and other conditions. But it won't be credible when Prime Minister Stoltenberg commits to this model by saying that one doesn't have to finance a loan, and that one doesn't have to buy a payment when that's exactly what the government is doing through its toll project. I'm more relaxed about tolls than some others in this room. But it's a paradox to me that the parties that are most busy and happy in the market are least happy in him in this area. Tolls are to use the market in a good way, even if none of us are happy with tolls. So the representative, Gorm Kjernli, asks me to talk to the Director of the InterCity Railway. I have. What the railway manager has said and the Railway Agency says is that it is optimal to build full InterCity in 13 years. That's what we're asking the government to come back with a plan about, and we'll follow it up. Finally, I would say that urban environment agreements are very positive. We see a positive development in many cities, and I think exactly what happened in that area has been one of the reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e2989	The nice thing about having iPad available in the room is that you can go back and check out the old settings. If one looks in the last setting, where the red-greens were in opposition, there was one suggestion there was agreement among the three parties. So now there are 27 proposals that the four – at least three of them and most likely the Left of most – will end up on. So it's demanded from the red-greens in the hall that here we're going to make a cooperation statement, where everything is nailed. I heard Audun Lysbakken yesterday talking about that he was going to negotiate Soria Moria III. I think he's going to let it go, but he had clear demands, where he disagreed with today's partners in the government. In October, a wise man – I think there were a lot of people here in the hall – said the following: It is bad people to negotiate in advance. One negotiates after a choice, depending on the centre of gravity you have, said the Party Secretary Raymond Johansen. So excuse me, demanding that there should be a full consensus in all areas before a choice, I don't even think the red-green themselves believe in. Otherwise, it would have been a rather boring campaign. But what's agreed here – among the opposition – is that we actually have a level of ambition higher than today's government. All parties want to increase the appropriations. Right wants to use another method, namely OPS. There we have the support of the Christian People's Party, and we also have joint comments with the Advance Party that OPS as a method can be interesting. So there's different perceptions of whether to say yes or no tolls. There, Raymond Johansen's statement about the power after the election would come in and be able to help clarify it. I have to say it's interesting to hear the different posts on the red-green side. I think the Minister of Transport, who, after all, has the greatest power in this area, had a very balanced article about OPS. She pointed out the benefits of OPS that method had, as opposed to Jens Stoltenberg, which each time he is met with a wish for project funding or project organisation – whether it is OPS or other things – corresponds to what he did in a Question Time in Stortinget here a few years ago: we have project funding, we finance all the projects. So it's the way of thinking that exists in the Workers' Party, which unfortunately has been left to the government for too long. Liv Signe Navarsete, Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa and Marit Arnstad have all been responsible for project organisation and financing. They have not been passed. They have received some nasty small projects called priority projects in this national transport plan. I wish in this matter – and rarely do I want it – that at least the Central Party at the three ministers mentioned had had a greater impact.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3002	This is how the Right Chief Speaker speaks about the Center Party. We're glad. It probably came from the heart. It was the representative of the Skei Grande who talked about climate, and it's incredibly important. For the Central Party that wants to facilitate the freedom of choice for young people in which they want to live and work, it is incredibly important to reduce distance costs. It is of course important to have petrol-rich cars, environmentally friendly cars, but the most important thing is to make sure that you do not have to go to work. Now that we have the technology we have with the Internet and broadband technology, we have an incredible opportunity to reduce work travel if we got an offer-driven extension of fiber to all houses in Norway. This message is not covered by this form of message, but there is a priority task ahead. Just as we got a phone call to all the houses, we have to get fiber to all the houses. Then one can do his work from where one lives. That is the really beneficial climate solution. Otherwise, I would say that in the NTP that we are now discussing, there has been a thorough work in the counties, and it has been a responsive government for the red-green parties. One has followed up the priorities of the counties where planning has come far enough. The counties prioritize, the red-green parties follow up on what the counties prioritize. In the case of Buskerud, I am very pleased. Oslof soil compound, rv. 35 Against, rv. 7 on Hardangervidda and E16 Sandvika–Hønefoss – all these road projects have been followed up, and there should be further pressure on them to continue the planning process. I see that we are being attacked by the representatives from the Right in terms of RV. Thirty-five. Then I just want to say, if the Right might assist its Right-Rapporteur in the Upper Eiker and get progress in planning, it might go a little bit easier. It shall not be on the red-green areas. So to the Ringeriksbanen: The Ringeriksbanen, abbreviation of the Bergensbanen, is an incredibly central matter, and it is very gratifying that the government together with the Right and Christian People's Party has said that there is no need for a new concept selection investigation. One must have high progress, but then we must be aware of: the path will go through some of the most important cultural landscapes we have in Norway – with food soil, with a number of historical areas and with birds and animals. Then one has to think on to dampen the conflicts. Cooperation between local authorities and local authorities is essential. It gives faster progress, and then it is an environmental tunnel, so that agriculture and cultural landscapes are not destroyed, one of the key instruments in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3015	When we presented our alternative National Transport Plan, it was about a promise to return to a lost Transport Norway. When you sit in this room today, it may sound like everything's amazing out there. I believe many of those who are driving on our roads, and especially on our county road network, do not experience the great joy of which I feel that some of the government parties here are busy. So there's someone who's been involved in cooperation and agreeing on the civil side. To that I would like to say that yes, I have experienced that the Right felt that there were some Georgian knots, and knots are for solving. It'll be very good when you solve them. Then there were some from the Christian People's Party who talked about Christmas. At least I know that Christmas is a nice guy who makes sure you get good things. It is one of the elements of the Progress Party's alternative proposals for the national transport plan. So I have to say that I'm a little disappointed, when I see the parts that we're going to cooperate with, say we're going to have a massive bet and look at new and better ways of doing things, and then it's kind of bit more than the government adds up to. But I'm convinced, because I read their comments and see that they will have done much more. The alternative NTP of the Progress Party is evidence that there is money and that there are opportunities to build Norway and to use the opportunities available there. That's where we show the way. I am convinced that when we get that far, we must get good solutions to that. It must be a paradox when someone says that we can't do it without tolls, because Sweden doesn't have an oil fund of 4,000 billion. However, they really build roads at a very different pace — both motorways and midpoints — than what we do in Norway. Then I have to enter into two projects. One is E6 Colomoen–Brumunddal. The fact that one should not start on one of Norway’s most unfortunate routes until after the first four-year period is shameful. I think it's sad that there are people in this room who are cheering that you have to wait four years to get started building the road on one of the most unfortunate routes. We think it's too passive. Then I want to refer to proposal No. 44, and then I hope that those we're going to work with after 9 September, also take the sense and support proposal No. 44 today about a properly developed four-field motorway on the E18 through Bamble – with 23 metres and not 20 metres to which the government is adding. All emergency stations, the municipality, all are perceived by getting a four-field highway with 23 meters of road width. I should like to hope that the government also made sense and provided a proper four-way street. Unfortunately, it seems that they are not concerned with thinking about the future, but thinking about the present. The party of progress and a new government will be concerned with thinking forward and building for the future, not for the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3034	It has been a bit of a wonderful debate to listen to. I wonder if the red-green representatives here themselves know what policies they are pursuing. Nobody borrows money cheaper than the state, says red-green politicians and uses it as an excuse for having toll finance. But it's not the state that borrows money when you set up a toll project. It is a public toll company that borrows money from the Municipal Bank or other banks. The average rate of interest paid by road projects is not State interest. That's 3.51 pst. interest, the Red-Green Minister for Transport has said. I could go to the State pension fund and borrow money for 2.2 pst. interest today. But the toll projects in Norway are paying 50 pst. more than that. So that's not the cheapest way to finance it. The red-green parties here choose to organize road construction in a costly way, not in a cheap way. I hope they take note of it, so that the red-green politicians understand what they're into. The municipal bank itself has made a presentation, and on slides 9 and 10 they have a list of the biggest toll projects they've ever funded. When the representative Lundtigen says that a rich state pays the road in cash, that's not true. The major road projects are financed by the Kommunalbanken, but why the municipal bank's money? Not from the state and not from the oil fund – you are not allowed to borrow money from the oil fund, the government has decided – the municipal bank gets 95 pst. of its capital from the rest of the world. We're lending our oil money to our neighboring country, and then we're lending other money back from our neighboring country that the Municipal Bank is lending to the Norwegian toll project. We don't pay our roads in cash, we finance their loans, and then we increase the cost level and the tax level of our drivers, who have to pay down the loan directly to the toll company, not via the tax bill. This is pushing the bill in front of it. Red-Green Politicians in this room talk about OPS being an abomination. OPS is a reasonable way to organise and plan, but there is a poor way to finance it. But the tolls of the red-green parties are just as bad, because then you also borrow money that is paid off over time. Is it so terribly hard to understand? All the red-green politicians who take the floor here, later like the world isn't like that. Maybe it's time to take a little settlement inside of their parties, and get things in place? ‘Why OPS?’ asked the representative of Kolberg. Well, that's precisely because you have to trick the rule of action. Why the tolling system? For the same reason – because one does not want to grant its own money from the oil fund directly to road development in Norway and therefore lends another’s money to do the same. But one wonders himself. It's a bad investment – it's a bad use of taxpayers' money, and it's a bad use of car drivers' money. Therefore, the solution of the Progress Party, with its own investment company, is better.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3045	I believe that today's government with the Central Party must clarify what they intend to promise the voters in the case of OPS – for the approval of the Prime Minister they will not receive. The same applies to SV, which wants to bet on trains, but has not been passed on either. After listening to the debate, I want to comment, and say yes, England has used OPS too much. Norway uses zero, and that is also the answer. This is fully feasible with a controlled and planned use of public-private cooperation. I also believe that the Workers' Party must clarify clearly whether it is against private individuals who establish businesses, make money, create jobs and ensure their well-being, that they are no longer supposed to do so. The right is concerned with train construction and the intercity triangle – not to Halden, but to Lake Corn Sea at the Swedish border. For those who are not familiar with geography: there are miles from Halden to the Swedish border, and there will be the next ‘missing link’ if the government does not accept that it is your intercity triangle to go. But the ambitions are only the so-called inner intercity ‘light’ – to Seut. Then you put Fredrikstad in a big deal, because there's a lack of clarity for many properties and their like, because you don't take the step and build intercity completely through Fredrikstad, get it done with the station and get it as a project in a separate company with a corresponding funding. I listened to the representative Eldegard, who was very pleased that Follobanen had now got his own line on the state budget. It's had it for eight years. What has that given? Not a spastique – until maybe in 2014. The cost was at start-up 9 billion. kr, but is now estimated at 23 bn. kr. This is the way the government wants to give priority to funding – they think it's good funding. Today's government also has no more priority for transportation than Bondevik II. There is still about the same proportion of the government budget, and today's government also has 300 billion. kr more available than the Bondevik II had. That's why the comparison from the position becomes quite unprofessional. What's important is what you get from results, and so far it's an overbureaucratization. Seven out of ten projects are delayed, and they are more expensive. So to some single projects. It is surprising to me that the government does not use the occasion in this transport plan to say that Moss Airport Smoking should have the same competitive conditions as other airports. But the chance comes back to the fall. When it comes to building expensive and difficult, I would like to draw attention to the E18, which was given its first decision locally in 1989 — Forced deployment of E18 with toll financing. So that's the billions from then on to now that you've wasted, and that's what the government wants to keep going with.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3067	There are decisions here in the Stortninget that this government has not fulfilled. Let me take you back in time. In 2006, the southern countries had a sleeping car offer. It went away. In 2008, we were given a decision that it would be put back in place again. It was my dear former colleague Rolf Terje Klungland who got this through in a budget. This sleeping car offer has been important for the people of South Africa. Rolf Terje Klungland and the undersigned have repeatedly called for this offer. The NSB still wants a small sign south landings welcome on board the sleeping cars. The problem is, they just have to wait until 2: 00 p.m. before they can board. It doesn't do anything for a b-human like me, but not all southerners are. Three state councils have been sitting and steering since this decision. It's government councillor Meltveit Kleppa, councillor Navarsete, and now we have a new state councillor, who has one last chance of getting this done. I thought it was a forgotten matter. But then it came to mindy southerners when the proposal to take away the sleeping cars in Rogaland came. Then the red-green ones woke up. This proposal, which would lead to two hours of frequency on the Sørlandsbanen, was stopped, because it was so important to be allowed to sleep in Oslo. This option would be good for the southern countries – even for those of us who are not b-humans. Let me make it clear: we are under the rogalendies to sleep through the most beautiful part of the country, on the way into Oslo to important meetings. They must not think of us southern landings, which stand on the platform in the middle of the night and freeze. It says: ‘We’re not going to sleep away the summer nights’. I'm adding: you're going to stand on the platform and wait for a train and a decision that the Stortinget has made, but the government hasn't followed up. Good night!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3086	It's still a while until it's night, so the next speaker is Anne Marit Bjørnflaten.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3089	The representative, Aspaker, said earlier that there would be more money to resume the maintenance launch in Troms whose right was given control. Troms is known as one of the states with the largest maintenance seat suspension. But it's completely wrong, at least if we're going to believe the comments of the Right Committee. The red-green batches say that the distribution of the extra pot must be based on the actual maturity in each state, while the Right says the opposite: the distribution of funds to the county roads shall not be made solely on the basis of the estimated maturity in each state – in other words, no guarantee that the extra pot is distributed to the counties with the greatest need. I could also say a lot about Aspaker's mention of the Right Tromsø package, but there is a discussion that I think we can still take in the newspaper columns. The representative Hareide said that a new majority agreed on a number of measures. No one's doubting it. But this debate has not made any clarifications about funding. Maybe InterCity will be realized earlier, but then the Left and Christian People's Party can't just add a tenth of what it actually costs. Maybe E39 will be realized with a blue government, but then the opposition parties actually have to agree whether or not to build using toll financing. So we still don't know the fate of the 56 toll projects to be launched in the next period, and this debate has shown that the distance between the parties on the civil side is the same. This debate has not brought us one step closer to what is most important to get an answer to in advance of the elections, namely, how does the opposition view financing transport? The representative of Greece said that we cannot expect the opposition to agree on everything. We don't – we don't expect that either. We expect them to give us an answer that is essential. That's why we don't know anything about the real level of ambition of the opposition until we've been told how the opposition sees it as financing transportation. Greece also expressed a rather disdain about the scheme of designated projects. Then I think with respect to notifying him that he could not have quite understood what this is all about. At the hearing of the Committee, the Land Association of Construction was much more positive. They said that if that government proposed was implemented, it would be Christmas Eve and May 17 at once – a very good certificate from just those who are the most important actors, and who know what this is all about. Because that gives the sector what they've asked for. Designated projects provide predictability, rational development and provide a form of multiannual budgeting. It doesn't give magic solutions that put the economy at risk.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3104	The President would point out that speaking of others' posts as obscene is not a good parliamentary expression in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3107	This has been a bit of a debate, and it is not so strange that there are different views on quite a number of things in this area. However, I take the floor at the end of the debate, because I want to comment on a few-three things that have been addressed to me. One concerns the representative Schou, who reiterates his claim that seven out of ten projects are delayed. That statement doesn't get any better from being repeated. It is based on a misleading statistic, which is not sufficient for the implementation of the existing NTP. I fully agree that there is a lot that can be done to get more left for each traffic krone, and it is an important topic in the NTP that is being dealt with and adopted today. It is also true that there are several employees in the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency. There are several hands at work. But no, it is not bureaucracy, it simply reflects that there has been a strong increase in tasks and a strong increase in investment. People are needed both to plan and to be involved in expanding. There is simply a need for engineers and planners. So it's like I'm separating OPS as an organization, that's construction method, and funding -- that's absolutely right. I think there's reason to separate a little bit in the two debates. I often see them mixed in hops, and it's a little unfortunate. But the good thing about what I'm saying about OPS as a construction method, or as an organisation, is that one doesn't have to finance it as a OPS to implement some of the reasonable things. One can implement them in today's system, through the public projects that are being expanded today. One does not have to go through OPS financing. It is fully possible to expand both quickly and continuously and to give the same operator responsibility for operation and maintenance over a longer period of time. It is fully feasible to implement within today's regime. It's also one of the things that we're going to do more of in the years to come. It is not true that there is no uncertainty about the opposition's disagreement about funding today – it is. Uncertainty has been created for all the 56 projects financed by tolls that have not yet been adopted by the Storting but are in the present level. They have created concrete uncertainty about them. What are the opposition parties going to do with the 56 projects if they come to power? It's actually a little uninteresting what the Progress Party and the Right are saying separately. The only interesting thing is what they're going to agree on together, and what kind of funding they're going to agree on, when they're so fundamentally disagreeable. The Georgian knot will not be dissolved; it will probably have to be cut over. And it's going to be very painful, is my divination.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3120	The representative, Freddy de Ruiter, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3123	One of the projects mentioned by the Council of State here is Tvedestrand-Arendal, and it is unfortunately created uncertainty about – if that is so wrong that we have a change of government. Just a little comment to the representative Harberg: moving on 3 pst. of the total amount from second to first period I cannot see leading to any much faster start-up – a maximum of one month faster start-up for Tvedestrand-Arendal. It can hardly be said to be any great revolution. But then the Right Party and the Advance Party must first agree, and I think that will be a bigger challenge. Then I have a confession to come with. I said earlier today that the Right View of OPS was almost religion. I agree with Mr Kolberg's correction that this has nothing to do with religion; this is ideology. So right OPS attitudes have to do with ideology.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3132	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3135	The representative of Solvik-Olsen and I agree that a rich state pays cash. So we agree on the cash principle. We hereby reject OPS funding. We disagree on tolls. When the Senter Party has a pragmatic view of it, it's because you can control and dampen car traffic through tolls, you can have a rush-time charge, it's socio-economically profitable. When it is the case that the government borrows from private individuals, the argument is that a private purchasing power can thereby be absorbed. That is the only argument that public toll companies are privately financed. What is the problem, however, is how can the Progress Party go in order to transform the Road Administration into its own economic and legal entity? Well, that's just because that unit can borrow money. One turns away from the rule of action. That's the point. One invests a lot today. The bill is paid by the next big ones. That's not wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3144	The representative, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute. Much indicates that the debate is about to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3149	What has been presented is a solid transport plan that sees the whole country, with differentiated solutions that meet the needs of the different regions. It is a plan that takes the needs of business seriously. During the day, we have not received an answer on how the blue-blue will resolve the disagreements about funding. Is it the solution of the Advance Party or the Right solution that will result? By doing so, I believe that there are many projects that could be in serious danger. When we also know that these two parties have given promises about tax cuts in the billion dollar class, I think the priorities are going to be very demanding on the blue-blue side. No, politics is not about promising the most, but about implementing it a law. It has the red-green government done in two transport plans, and it will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3158	The representative, Mr Rommetvei, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3162	I want to cheer up the representatives Arve Kambe and Bente Thorsen, both of whom are from the haugesund area. They have said from this pulpit that they were afraid that we would take E134 away from Haugesund, because we have proposed to lay out an arm from Odda towards Bergen. This is not what we intend to do; we intend to strengthen E134. We have also suggested that the road be extended to Drøbak and connected to E6. The representative, Kambe, said this was a stunt from us, and the representative, Thorsen, was very scared. We shall not take E134 from Haugesund; we shall strengthen E134. The representative Bente Thorsen, who in educational matters talks so much for the Y-way, I think I should see that we get a split in Odda, Bergen and Haugesund, have a really got the Y-way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3171	Time's up. The representative, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3176	It's kind of nice to hear that the representative Lundtigen totally disagrees about an Avinor model compared to a company. But it's not so strange that you don't come up with good political solutions in Troms, because what you're most concerned about there is actually representatives talking down. And the one who may be talking down the most is actually the representative Bjørnflaten, for how many times have we not heard here the rapporteurs and political leadership in Tromsø become dismayed. In fact, I think you have to respect those people who have chosen in elections. Tolls are expensive. The best way is to finance cash – and preferably through companies that are funded with a government fund. Tolls cost – and the bill is sent to the drivers – by at least 35 pst. more than the cost of the project. That's a bad way to invest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3185	The representative, Knut Arild Hareide, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute – in the absence of case No. 11, for which the representative, Mr Hareide, is the rapporteur-general. Then he has three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3188	I should like to make a brief statement of 1 minute, even if I am a case spokesman for various matters under the Ministry of Transport – and it should have a broad definition – but it is primarily a national transport plan that I have to say something about. Ketil Solvik-Olsen and I disagree on tolls, but I fully agree with his analysis of the double communication that they have faced today, associated with toll financing and OPS funding. Then there are questions of trust and insecurity. Yes, let's see what the voters say. Seven out of ten voters believe that a shift will provide a better transport policy after the 9 September elections. Finally, a little heartache: there have been many new bureaucrats, skilled professionals, planners in the field of social affairs. I think there's better reason to look at the number of information advisors in the department, which made us get the NTP over a month late for Stortinget because one was going to sell out good stuff. It is better to look at them in front of skilled professionals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3199	I believe the representative Hareide, like the honest person he is, is inside the theme that the opposition is playing on: a shift. Then he tries to cover up all the opposites that are, to leave it this, a shift, which is the cause. Ketil Solvik-Olsen is constantly talking about the red-green government when he talks about tolls. He knows very well that tolls are on the right, the left is on it and the Christian People's Party is on it, but he doesn't call it conscious to avoid getting into the conflict that's in the hall associated with funding. I think it's a little dishonest that he won't admit that he has a problem, when the Progress Party is actually going out with 95 billion. kr more than the other lots, tolls included. Then there must be some conflicts that lie there and wrestle, but he will not talk about and teat about, and that he is only running on the theme that a believer is tricked into. So is the question of whether he can fool himself that way? Could it be that the voters actually discover that there is a very great difference between Bård Hoksrud, Trond Helleland and Knut Arild Hareide when it comes to the question of how to finance transportation? If one goes to the large road projects to be financed by tolls, they will not be financed. It doesn't matter to me, but it means that Hoksrud and the Progress Party are going to block this. Solvik-Olsen will block the major road projects. in his own country, because he does not have funding. These are the realities, but they don't want to talk about them. I see that we have to become more clear about what we're going to do together. Then there is a question for the Progress Party, which I repeat, and which Hoksrud does not answer. The Hoksrud and the Advance Party have unanimously agreed to have a toll bar in the windows of the cars – soon at all, first they have more than 3.5 tonnes. So he's not going to charge tolls, but he's going to have tolls. Now the Progress Party must soon say that they want to create a new government, but then they must also pursue real policy – not just sit on the tribunal and say that they have money for everything. Then one doesn't want money for everything. But obviously they won't, and that's when it's getting interesting. I hope Ketil Solvik-Olsen will deal with this with how he will approach the Right and the others, in his 1-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3212	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3215	I think it's charming to hear red-green politicians worry about the cooperation on the civil side. We await the voter's verdict in September, and then we'll negotiate. On the other hand, as late as yesterday, the red-green politician stood out in this plenary and demonstrated against today's government. That should concern the representative of Langeland more. I think the representative Lundtigen needs a little more adult training, because the representative Lundtigen gave the impression that we today have toll companies that borrow from the private market in Norway, and thus withdraw purchasing power as a user to build a road in Norway, and thus inflationary pressure is unchanged. In fact, these toll companies borrow money from the Municipal Bank, which in turn borrows its money from abroad – 95 p.m. That means that during the construction period we have foreign capital that builds Norway, and then we pay those loans back via the Municipal Bank. But that means there are non-resident capitalists sitting and foaming the cream when we build our way in Norway. As a result, inflationary pressures in Norway remain unchanged compared to the use of oil money.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3226	I'm not going to take 3 minutes. I think it was interesting to hear the discussion about who is going to win by the Right Party or the Advance Party in government. It is then up to the voters to decide. I also think most people in this room have learned that democracy works that way. If you want funding without tolls and you think that transportation is an important thing, you vote for the Progress Party. So I want to remind you of these fees that you pay, which maybe people haven't talked about today at all. Car-related charges are paid far above what is used on the road, in addition to tolls and in addition to all other charges. So it was interesting to hear from Lundtegen, that the reason he wanted to have tolls, is that he could make sure he got a running-time charge. I think that was a very thin comfort to those who might get toll projects towed in. So to the representative Bjørnflaten, who asks how to proceed with the Right and the Advance Party when they cannot secure 56 new toll projects. Yeah, poor people if they can't get those 56 toll projects. Poor ones – luckily they have the red-green ones to make sure they get 56 new toll projects. They can guarantee it. I assume that the Bjørnface will be pleased when they go out in the election campaign and guarantee 56 new toll projects. Hip hurrah! Then I say as the representative of Kolberg: I'm so happy that soon I'm going to eat soft cake. And no one can be as happy as Kolberg – everyone knows that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3237	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1-11.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3251	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time; Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3260	This is an important day. If the representative of Kolberg wants to go out and eat cake for the Ringeriksbanen, I think many in Westfold will eat cake so that you can finally get the last stage of E18 through Westfold. The first project at the E18 through Vestfold was completed in 2001, and the latter is now likely to be completed in 2017. I think everyone in Westfold is very happy about that, and they're very happy that the proposition is now coming before summer. But I know that there are many people who are happy with a big bismach, and that's when we see how much this costs the drivers who are going to drive on the E18 through Westfold. It's not cheap. This project is part of a slightly larger project – there are several sections. A cost of approx. 85 kroner per person each way from Porsgrund to Tønsberg, if you want to drive this route. It's a six and a half mile long distance. But there's a bridge that makes it a little bit troubled. There's fresh water there that makes you not only able to build a bridge and be done with it, but you have to take into account the environment and the surrounding area. Some reason why this expansion project is becoming more expensive is that there has been a discussion between local authorities and the State Road Administration about which solution to choose. But I think everyone now is very well reconciled and agree that there is a good and sensible solution that you have now added up to past Larvik. It has been shown that there have been more difficult basic conditions than expected when planning. Therefore, the proposition is also somewhat delayed in relation to what was intended. As I said, the entire committee agrees with the proposal, and the setting is clear and clear that the project needs to be developed. The large disagreement is common as to whether to have full funding or whether to continue to take a large part of the bill. Initially, when the development of E18 was started through Vestfold, there was a gap between the drivers and the state. That fissure layer is no longer a fissure layer, it's the drivers that pay most of the bill. The Committee's attitude is to go ahead of the project. In addition, there are two proposals, one from the Progress Party, which goes ahead of the project, but which seek state full funding, and one from the Right and Christian People's Party, which seek to help the government review the E18 toll rates by autumn 2014 on the whole of the Gulli–Langan route based on the toll company's acquired interest rates, increase the collection time to 20 years and give rise to a derogation from the requirement of equal mileage for the entire route in order to reduce traffic leakages at the most vulnerable locations. Because there is no doubt that there is going to be a lot of rejection of traffic and that a lot of traffic is going to go on the local roads and the county road network in Westfold, because it becomes so expensive that many prefer to spend some longer time and drive on a somewhat worse road. Therefore, there is also considerable uncertainty about the overall funding of the project as to how much time is needed. Then I have explained what the different parties mean. The starting point, as I said, for the Progress Party is that we are very much for the project, it should have been here a long time ago. Consulting Engineers' Association has done a calculation that showed that the entire expansion of Westfold could have been done in five years, so we've spent 16 years building up this project. So it's time, and it should have been over a long time ago, but we're glad that the proposition finally came, and we want state full funding for this project. I refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3279	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3282	This is a joyous day for Vestfold. The extension of the line Bommestad-Sky is the final phase of the E18 development in Vestfold. When the road is finished in 2017, we have a continuous four-field road from Oslo to Telemark. The new road provides for increased road safety, improved traffic environment and traffic flows, and, in some cases, the E18 will significantly reduce driving time and reduce transport costs for business. Together with the development of the railways, which is also in full swing, a new and timely infrastructure will improve the conditions for housing and industrial development throughout the west of the Oslofjorden. It's needed in a state where we'll probably be 100,000 more people in the years to 2030. But the road has its price – 4.2 billion. kr, and the drivers shall pay most of the costs. The state's share is now 28.5 p.m., and when the road is finished with its seven toll stations, from Telemark to Gulli at Tønsberg, it will cost 88 kroner and 176 kroner respectively to pass the toll stations with a light and heavy vehicle. And although we currently pay 90 kroner to drive the route Nuttøøy–Oslo, knowing that there are toll projects in the west and north at higher rates, I have a great understanding that those who have to use E18 in the south of Westfold daily seem to be expensive. I therefore value the attempts made by the county to reduce the bomb charges. In particular, this applies to the conclusion of lending agreements with favourable interest rates, which will help to reduce future financing costs. Then I have less sense of an extension of the tolling period from 15 to 20 years, which may contribute to some reduction of the toll initially, but which will only impose additional costs on the drivers. I was wondering if the motorists in North Westfold, where the toll stations are being removed in the fall, would have preferred five more years with toll collection in exchange for marginally lower toll rates. I note that the government parties and the opposition, of course, with the exception of the Progress Party, who would rather be out of the way than contributing to a toll-funded road, point out in a slightly different way that a new assessment of the tariff level will be made at a slightly different time. This is quite important, because tariffs depend to a large extent on measures to improve the traffic environment and road safety on the cross-roads. That's how the bulk of the population actually plays the ball back to the county. Calculations I have been given part in show that the tolls can be reduced by up to NOK 20 if the traffic leak is removed completely. Based on Klinestad and Fokserød, where an estimated 10,000 cars per day will use the side roads once the toll station is in place, the estimates show that the rates could be reduced by 2 kr per 1000 cars which instead choose to drive E18. However, measures on the cross-road network are mainly the responsibility of Vestfold county councils, and I believe that remedial measures on the cross-roads network and their effects should have been the basis for the Storting's treatment of this proposition. In the extension of the current decision in the Stortinget, the county should, in my opinion, clarify the measures needed to reduce the traffic leakage from new E18 to the secondary roads in order to reduce the handicaps to the inhabitants along the side roads and to reduce traffic leakage. This also has a clear safety aspect. The construction of a new and safe road with good capacity is of little help if tolls lead to the introduction of a large part of the traffic on a road network which is not at all dimensioned for this purpose. It is usually not my job to guide the state politicians in Westfold in this or other matters, and I understand, of course, that it may be difficult to choose between unpopular measures such as the closure of side roads, the reduction of lateral protrusion by means of physical measures, or the setting up of bombs on the main side roads following patterns from E18 in Sande. However, it is equally necessary to make such assessments and take such decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3295	Let me also stress that of course it's a pleasure day when you get through propositions about development and funding, but it's probably even more joy when the road is finally opened. And large parts of the E18 through Westfold will be opened next autumn, in one year, in 2014. What happens then is that the drivers are meeting very high bomb charges. Therefore, Westfold County has been quite clear that they have wanted to try to solve this in a way that could lead to lower costs for the drivers. The main justification is, of course, the main danger of traffic leakage. Vestfold is specially designed, especially the middle parts, with a lot of small roads, with a lot of opportunities to drive outside, and this traffic leak will of course be considerably lower if you get a system that makes it less expensive. Now I have seen in the setting that the red-green parties – I should not say that they believe that this is due to the local politicians themselves – believe that they initially knew that it would be even more expensive. That's correct, but initially you also knew from the very beginning that the state had to pay close to 40 pst. The proportion, which Gullvåg has precisely informed Stortinget, will be well below 30 p.m. This is why an overall assembly in Westfold – and I stress it all together, because all parties were involved – has asked the government to take action to reduce these costs of tolling. What has been part of the idea of this is primarily the financing costs, of course, but also the recovery time. So, like the Gullvåg representative, you can philosopher everything people want: do they want a longer and a little bit less pain, or do they want a shorter and a little bit more brutal pain? I don't think that's what this is about. It's about how this works, not least for business, which of course has an advantage in getting expenditures distributed over time. The same applies to those who travel back and forth to work, who have long work trips. That's about the same thing as when you finance your house over a little bit of time, and you have an economy that might make it possible to get five years longer payoff. It gets more expensive, yes, but it makes life work another way. In addition, traffic is increasing in Westfold, so that predictions of what is coming in are good. As I said, in the autumn of 2014, the first antenna points will be set up. In this setting, the right and Christian People's Party proposes a new assessment of toll tariffs. We also propose to address very specific criteria, i.e. interest rates, collection time to 20 years, and the possibility of deviating from the requirement of equal mileage rates in order to reduce traffic leakage. This will mean, without my having thought of it, not a marginal decrease, that the representative of Gullvåg is in, but a decrease in the pass-by fees that really means something to those who are going to pass here. I also want to replicate to the previous speaker when he says that he does not know whether to direct the state politicians or one: I believe that the Vestfold county council, and insofar as other local authorities too, might have asked to be guided very much by the Storting and by individual representatives about something that is their responsibility. They are jointly responsible for trying to obtain other arrangements. I think that is a legitimate act. They should have praised that for doing that. Instead of constructing the way in which traffic is to be shut down as much as possible to force people, you should have a carrot in the form of a more reasonable passage. I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Right promotes in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3308	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3311	It is very positive that the Stortinget today makes decisions on the development and financing of E18 on the route Bommestad-Sky. This 7 km long stretch in Larvik is the last development stage of the E18 through Vestfold, and it is planned to start construction until the autumn and open for traffic in 2017. The project will deliver significant benefits in terms of improved road safety, smoother traffic flows and improvement of the environment along the road. There shall be no concealment that there has been disagreement on the choice of solutions on the route Bombestad-Sky. Following the confirmation by the Ministry of the Environment of the municipal sub-plan in 2010, a longer tunnel than initially assumed between Bommestad and the Farriseidet has been built at local request, and a more expensive solution has also been chosen with the sloped bridge at the Farriseidet. This, together with some other requirements and solutions, has resulted in large increases in costs and, in this context, increased toll tariffs have been notified. It has always been provided that the state framework should be maintained if a more expensive solution to the route was chosen than expected. It's covered both in St.prp. No 60 for 2008-2009 and also for Prp. 56 S for 2010–2011. The State contribution to the overall expansion of Gulli-Langåker and Bombestad-Sky-Langåker is approximately 2.3 billion. kr, and it is provided as provided for in the original financing plan of St.prp. No 60. There has been some local resistance to the expected fare level on the route, but local authorities have previously accepted a fare of NOK 106 at the 2011 level. However, on the basis of strong local wishes, the Ministry of Transport has also accepted a lower calculation technical interest rate assumption in this case than is usual in toll propositions. It has resulted in a significant reduction in the tariff level, which, in the context of the proposition, has now been calculated at NOK 88 in 2013 level for a normal car. There is a comprehensive parallel network along the E18 in Westfold, and high toll tariffs may result in traffic being rejected or another route being taken. It can bring benefits to society, and the Ministry will therefore take the initiative to review toll tariffs once Bombestad-Sky is opened. The final costs of the project and the traffic base will then be well known. Thus, there could also be significantly greater security around conditions affecting the economy of the tolling company. In addition, the State Road Service will continuously monitor this situation and also consider other measures to reduce traffic rejection. When Bombestad-Sky is finished in four years, there will be continuous four-field road from Oslo to Telemark. Completion of the E18 through Westfold will reduce driving time, improve predictability and reduce transport costs and can also contribute to regional enlargement. It is also the case that the road safety benefits will be significant. For large parts of E18 through Westfold, a reduction in the number of fatalities and damage to about 70 pst. is now expected, with the greatest reduction for the major accidents. This is a main source of transport in Westfold, but also between the East and Grenland and the South. With the completion of the development, it will be arranged so that a significant part of the traffic both in the district of Westfold and also through Westfold can go on the high-standard four-field road. It's very positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3330	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3333	I think I have a different tone from the Council of State in terms of lower toll rates, than I have seen before, not least of correspondence between her and the County rapporteur in Westfold. Can I now understand the Council of State to the point that what is stated in the remarks here, and which has previously also been the Council of State – let's say, credo, that the local authorities themselves have known how expensive it would be, and that it is now becoming cheaper, so far lies there, but she agrees that all measures must be taken to reduce the toll rate because the traffic leakage of this parallel network is as serious as she herself is involved?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3338	In general, I think in this kind of case, not only in Westfold, but also elsewhere, that if local authorities want solutions that are more expensive than intended, it is not given that the state should take that extra bill without delay. That is why we have also said that the state framework is firm. That means that there has been a discussion about the tolls. On the basis of local needs, we have been willing to participate in a lower computational interest rate assumption, which has reduced the rate. We are willing to look further at the possibility of reducing the tariffs, but we do not believe that this can happen until Bombestad-Sky is opened. First of all, there will be a good enough basis for an overview of the traffic base and also an overview of the final costs of the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3346	Does the representative Fleet want a new line?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3349	Yes, since I'm here anyway, President. Can I then interpret the Council of State as saying that it might be a good idea to also look at a different payoff period, because that is what really brings down costs here, rather than, for example. to criticise the county council for not rescinding the entire parallel road network, as the representative Gullvåg just said?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3356	We have contributed in this case on the question of the computational interest rate assumption. I think it's been the main instrument. I think it's more topical than going from a period of 15 years to 20 years. It is possible that it will be better for business if this is distributed over 20 years. On the other hand, it's good to finish a toll project. 15 years is the normal time to pay down a toll project. This also applies initially to this project. But as I said, when the project opens, we will be able to come back and have a more thorough review of the possibility of also going through the toll tariffs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3361	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3377	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3386	I'm fine with the NSB for now. So good that it's full on the train and thinking about the places many places in the country. The Committee is also broadly in favour of the NSB in the message and perceives differently the situation as much better than before, as a person has had a real problem with delays. But there are, of course, delays. This representative himself rose optimistically to Halden on Friday afternoon, and suddenly stopped the train completely up, and there was a standing hour. We were quite well informed about what they were trying to do, but still the train stood still. Finally, the train manager said that the train had ‘taken the evening’. Then there was nothing to do but try to drag us to a station, to get a new train set or to take another train. The NSB will have seen 66 new Flirt trains in 2015, and a joint committee is very concerned that new investments will be made by the NSB so that they can buy even more trains and thus get the quality of both the travellers and the standard on the train equipment at a completely different level. It provides a basis for better customer care. Such investments you have now made are not limited to the Austland. We also have to imagine that a new train set needs to be added – a little less, such as: Rommetveit has talked a lot about – to Vossabanen in 2016, Trønderbanen in 2017 and then to Jærbanen. Obviously, if you get something new, it attracts customers. The train is important for the climate work that the government is doing. The more cars we get away from the roads and more use of the train, the less pollution and greenhouse gas emissions we get. If we can also get more people to take trains on long-distance journeys instead of flying, it also means a lot to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Therefore, some of us are very eager to get fast long-distance trains. There has been an affordable cooperation between Router and NSB close to the South Corridor when it comes to cooperating on collective provision in the region. There should be more of such cooperation. The model you have developed here gives several people the ability to travel collectively and move to other cities. It has a lack of incentives to get to it, but now the Routes and the NSB show way. This means a collective committee. A joint committee would also like to see whether the ticketing system can be improved, as has been achieved by Router and NSB. It must not be such that a collective bus card cannot be used on the train or vice versa. Since it was so much joy and fun, we have to see if there's anything we disagree about, and that's it. Some lot – i.e. the opposition – will actually import the fourth railway directive directly. The final outcome of the Fourth Railway Directive is not entirely clear, but it is likely that there will be liberalisation, in the form of more supply and privatisation. The red-greens are very clear that they want to control their own railway policy and not be guided by EU policies. When you look at how the EU works in southern Europe, you might wonder why others are so eager to get market-based solutions to Norway. In the end, a joint committee agrees with the case leader and the red-green that Switzerland is a transitory country. They show way for others. Switzerland operates national railways on passenger transport. Nevertheless, the right side will import offers and privatisation, even if you can see that the train is actually running in Switzerland, and people are happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3407	Now we've been discussing the transport infrastructure for 8.5 hours and now we're processing the owner's message to the NSB. It's more about what's happening on top of the rails and on top of the infrastructure. I fully agree with what the rapporteur said. The NSB Group plays an important role in Norwegian transport, and the government and the Workers' Party regard the ownership we have in the NSB as part of the transport policy. In this way, the NSB also has a social mission, unlike other carriers, where the state does not have a ownership. It gives us the ability to control and signal when we see that there are challenges, but at the same time it's clear that the NSB is a responsible and independent company. There was a happy passenger growth on the railway last year. And with the new base route model, the first phase of which was implemented last December, everything is at the ready of an even higher passenger growth this year and in the years to come. The representative of Langeland was concerned with this with competition and the Fourth Railway Directive. The political divisions are not necessarily about what we think about things that come from Brussels sometime in the future. The reality is that there is a clear political dividing line between today's government parties and today's opposition parties. We don't want to put passenger transport on the railways on a competitive footing. We believe that this is not appropriate. There's a lot of reasons for that. Norway is a small railway country, compared to other countries in Europe. If I'm going to draw out two things that I think are important, what we have today is the possibility of flexibility and of thinking completely in the transport offer. That's an opportunity we'll lose if we split up our train offer in different tenders. For example, with the introduction of a new base route model, you had problems with a step-by-step train, among other things. on Kongsvingerbanen. People fainted, and it wasn't a lucky situation. Then the NSB had the opportunity to move materials from another section of the track to the Kongswingerbahn, to remedy the situation there and give a better offer. Today’s flexibility in the operation of passenger trains by NSB is lost if you split it up into different sections, even if it would be the NSB Gjøvik Railway AS, the NSB Kongswingerbahn AS or the NSB ‘you name it’. You lose that flexibility if you split it up. That's why it's an advantage that we see this in context. I have to go for a walk into the Progress Party, too, because at one point they have changed their position lately and approached the Right. It has not been very long since the signed and representative Hoksrud joined forces in the News of the Day eighteen on the dividend policy towards the NSB. Now there is a unanimous committee that supports the policy of dividend making. We think it will allow for the investments that NSB is going to make in the years that are coming. However, I would like to stress that if there is a real need for a reduction in profits in the NSB due to investments in new material, a concrete assessment must be made similar to that made to Avinor some years ago, where it was decided not to make a profit because Avinor had a difficult situation and needed this money himself. A similar type of assessment must also be made against the NSB, because the dividend policy is not written in stone.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3429	It is good that dividend policy is not written in stone, but that it is written in ink, and that is actually the committee's position. The Progress Party has recorded that the government's dividend policy is firm, but it's not like we're supporting it, because we've actually suggested cutting profits to the NSB. So there is a problem in the setting; we obviously did not get it well enough. But it's very important to clarify here from the pulpit that we're skeptical about taking profits from the NSB with a background in the huge purchases they're now facing, among other things. in connection with the replacement of the train equipment. I think it is important to clarify that we believe that the NSB is doing a very good job. They've been nice. They've had major challenges in recent years, but it's definitely not just NSB's faults, it's also about the infrastructure that NSB has had to live with and run on. I want to say that the NSB has shown itself to be an organization that is adaptable and good, capable of taking action and making changes to the best of its customers, and that you are now on the right track to collect much of the negative focus that has been on the company – which is what the customer is meeting; he does not think that there are anyone else who is responsible for the infrastructure on which the NSB runs. So I want to say to the representative of Langeland, who refers to Switzerland and the railway in Switzerland, that it is definitely like Switzerland has done a lot of good on the railway, but they have also done a lot of good on the road. They've built a lot of roads; they've done a lot on the way. We agree that what is happening in Switzerland on the railway is very good, but we definitely do not agree with what Langeland wants, that we should hire the drivers with charges that we should then use to finance the development of the railways. We definitely do not agree with that. But it is also important to bear in mind that Switzerland has a completely different starting point in terms of the overall level of car charges – and road-based means – than what we have, for example. has been established in Norway. NSB is now in the process of replacing many train sets and will continue to replace many train sets. We think that's very good and very positive, because after there were some boot problems with some seats and a little bit different, it now looks like you've agreed with the commuters and others who use the train a lot, and have found good solutions to things that have been problematic. Then it's also interesting that the red-green government just says they're against the fourth railway directive. We've said that at least we're not negative about it. We want competition and think it is positive and good, therefore we will not reject that we will support it when possible. It can be exciting to see what's actually in there, but I'm noticing that Langeland is against it until he sees what's in it. So to the proposals of the Progress Party, which I want to raise. We think it makes sense to consider a government sale of NSB, where you also get others on the owner's side. I think it'll be good for the company. We want initially to compete on the railway network. So that means that NSB has to compete with others. And the NSB has shown this in a very good way when it was NSB Tenders, who used to offer to drive on the Gjøvik Railway with 40 pst. better offer, at about the same price as you had before. It shows that the NSB is a company that is able to both convert, manage to be dense and capable of providing good services. Even when exposed to competition, they are able to deliver and are preferred to provide services. So what's going on is separating NSB Buss. We're a little bit unsure about what to do there – whether it should be distinguished, or whether it should still be in the NSB. That is why we have a proposal where we ‘ask the government in connection with a sale in the NSB to consider whether to separate NSB Buss from a separate company that is sold separately’. We're also looking at this property that NSB doesn't need. We think it's natural to look at whether you're going to sell out and not continue to sit as an owner in the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3448	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3451	I saw in the evening post here last night that the Swedish railway manager said something like that only the person who owns a railway can love a monopoly. There we are in Norway. But it is also the case that the Right wants to have a railway on rails – and not just on rails, but also one that rails – and we want a strong and well-functioning railway in Norway. I also want to give praise to the NSB who is thinking new within a very demanding and difficult framework. It's important that we have a collective offer, and that the NSB is predictable, also on goods, and that we get more goods from road to track, because it's necessary to develop the offer both for people and for business. It is absolutely necessary, from the Right, that we reduce the problems facing our society in terms of climate, environment, road safety and efficient traffic management. This is particularly urgent in the large urban areas. It's especially where it's necessary to bet. People should quickly and efficiently get to and from work and study in urban areas, and to get more people to take the train, to travel collectively, and to make business use of it, is also important in order to reduce serious road accidents. The problem in Norwegian transport is the result of a lack of planned, comprehensive state investment in modern infrastructure and lack of maintenance funded by the State. This applies to the rail sector as well as to the road sector, reflecting, as a whole, a lack of transport policy under many governments. But the railway stands for most of what is going on to facilitate environmentally friendly travel. With regard to the Right View of the train and the situation of the NSB for the future, we believe that the monopoly should be abolished and that more than NSB and the Flytrain should be allowed to carry Norwegian passengers. I have no objection that the State Railways or the Flytrain are running the Eastfold Railway on both east and west lines. A requirement has been made by the EU in the Railway Package IV, which will contribute both to better governance and to lower costs in the railway sector. We do not fully know the outcome of this, and I am surprised to note that the government parties have already concluded that everything that comes from Brussels must be evil for the railways. On the right, there will be more lines that will be exposed to competition, and we'll have it gradually – everyone, if that's the case. But, of course, we don't want to go as far as New Zealand has gone, from one monopoly to another, to a private monopoly. We are committed to having healthy competition, where quality for travellers and businesses is the most important thing. That's the central one. Today, only the Gjøvik Railway is exposed to competition in Norway, but it clearly shows, when this was done under the Bondevik II Government, that the NSB is fully capable of competing. Several sections of railway lines should be put off for competition. Experience from the Gjøvik track and other countries has shown that it provides better efficiency, better regularity and also a better offer for travellers. We have several sections that are relevant to this. I'm probably wondering about the flexibility that Kernli's representative boasts, when it was so full on the Kongswinger train that they fainted. If that was the case, there were quite a number of sections where you should have put in more train capacity, but you don't have the capacity to track it. I believe that private actors will be concerned with both quality and capacity when competing on the routes. Finally, I want to address the problem that a state train company is getting such a dominant market position within the bus market. It is important that State activities contribute to facilitating healthy competition in this sector, both on local, regional and national routes. But from our perspective, we believe it is necessary for the NSB to sell out a large part of its bus company.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3477	I support the good points made by the case-rapporteur, Mr Langeland. I will not keep any long posts, I just want to link a few comments to the matter. More take trains, and more trains are on the way. That's very good. The centre party is very happy that the NSB buys new trains. We are also concerned that there are still several train sets to be purchased. Not least, we are concerned that the whole country that has a railway network should benefit from an improved offer. There are a little bit of different types of material on some of the sections of the track, and not everything is as good quality. I see what it does with the desire to use trains when the material that is on top of the rails is good. Therefore, it is important to improve the offer around – on a number of routes where there is commuting, as well as on distances where you travel far. It has become almost trendy to travel by train again. That's very good. In today's debate on the national transport plan, government parties said a lot about what they want to do, including on the train side. It shows that we want to support this and make sure that it is still good – good – to travel by train, whether you want to travel far or you want to travel map. I'm also concerned with one last thing, namely that we're facilitating a simplified ticketing system, and that we're making the offer available to everyone. It is important that everyone has an option to make use of this type of transport system, whether you have poor vision or you are disabled in another way. It must be as accessible as possible, so that people have the opportunity to choose. I support what is in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3496	I continue where the representative of Sjelmo Nordås ended. In several budget settings, a single committee has pointed to electronic reservation. A good system is now in place and is an important customer-driven measure – one of several examples of NSB being a good company, which, based on its intentions, does a good job. I also believe the organisation with an NSB and a railway station is the right organisation. We've only seen in the last year that there has been an increase in the number of passengers up to half a million passengers. It gives us some short-term challenges. I believe that the NSB Chief Advisor’s advice to look at short-term measures – such as turning-point, port length adjustment, and parking spaces linked to stations – is a matter for consideration, because we are now faced with some short-term challenges by the collective use of NSB. Like the representative Schou, I have noticed what the Swedish head of the NSB – that is, the person who hires Statens Järnvägar – says, in general, that it is good for the railways and for customers with competition. I think that's what we should listen to, and when we look at the customer satisfaction of the Swedish NSB, she's up to 98 pst. It's not just because of the organisation - it's clear this has something to do with the infrastructure effort. But it also gives a signal. Earlier this winter, the Minister of Transport spent a lot of time thinking about organisation, and she said on issues of competition that she would like to see a merger between the NSB and the Railway Agency. It will be exciting to see whether the high thinking has been completed by the Minister of Transport. I think it is important that we facilitate competition. So competition on the railways is not the easiest, but I think the experience from Sweden is well worth taking along. I don't think it's Norwegian Railway Federation alone that should control development. Then it won't be the renewal that this sector needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3513	The government emphasises that the objective of State ownership in the NSB is to provide a well-functioning transport service for rail passengers and goods in Norway. One wants to continue a strong and wide transport group, where buses and properties are also important in order to create a comprehensive offer. The Government notes that the NSB Group has had a positive economic development in recent years, but that there will also be a large investment need in the coming years. Today's dividend policy has been proposed further, i.e. that a dividend of 50 pst is normally payable. the consolidated profit or loss after tax. The NSB has shown better results in 2012 than in the past. The performance of the passenger train services in 2011 and 2012 has clearly improved compared to previous years, and good practice also improves in 2012 than in 2011. The property business has large sales gains in 2012. However, bus business needs to continue to improve its profitability. Netbus has about 30 pst today. of the Norwegian bus market, and also has a certain presence in Sweden and Denmark. The NSB has proposed an investment programme of 16 billion. kr during the planning period. That includes 5.8 billion. SEK in investments for passenger trains, about SEK 4.2 billion. kr in investments in the bus business and beyond 5 billion. kr in investments in the real estate business. It has, as I said, been very positive with the railways and the NSB lately. New route pattern from December 2012 has produced good results in the sense that traffic has increased sharply in the first four months of the year. The increase is at 7 pst. in local traffic and 11 pst. on intercity trains compared to the same period last year. The punctuality of trains has also improved, and it was in 2012 at over 90 pst. However, it should not be concealed that the NSB is facing some major challenges. The increase in traffic growth, while also being able to achieve sufficient capacity, is a challenge. Large population growth is expected, especially around the big cities, which means that this challenge is not just short-term – it is going to be a long-term challenge. In the years ahead, the railway will gradually strengthen its competitiveness. More and more trains will be put into traffic. In 2015, 66 Flirt train sets will be on the rails. It is important to mention that the new base route model, which partially entered into force from December 2012, will be completed in December 2014. It will provide an additional uplift and increased capacity for traffic in the East. I also want to mention that a great deal has been done in the area of operation and maintenance to improve railway infrastructure, especially in the Oslo area. It has been important, sail if there is still much left for the railway to become as reliable as we want it to be. Finally, let me also mention a little about the competitive outsourcing of passenger traffic. A lot of people are yelling at it. In the government's opinion, that's a bad idea. The Norwegian railway network is not very suitable. There are many single tracks; there are deviations in the train running as a result of both failures and planned improvement measures. The market is probably not large enough, and the start-up costs for those entering the market will be high. Splitting with multiple train companies can offer a less robust offer when there is a problem with the train running. I also believe that it is limited, as the representative of Kernli was involved, with the provision of train equipment suitable for operating Norwegian routes, and therefore, any competitors are likely to have to take over staff and material from the NSB. Then the question is, what will be the difference between the providers? There is, of course, a proposal from the European Commission. Then I agree with those who say that it is highly uncertain what fate that Commission proposal will have. The reason why this is very uncertain is that there are many countries that disagree with the fact that a railway should be exposed to competition, just like Norway. It is enough to mention Denmark, the Netherlands and Finland as examples of countries that are very sceptical of the Commission’s proposal. I have never said that one should merge the Railway Agency with the NSB, but I have said, as far as railway package IV is concerned – where the two most important proposals are competitive outsourcing, and what we call ‘unbundling’, that is to say that a split up the vertical integration between the transport company and the infrastructure company – is that it is as interesting as discussing competitive outsourcing, it is to discuss ‘bundling’ or ‘unbundling’. At least that's the big discussion in, for example, Germany and France.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3548	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3551	Let me challenge cards to mention two paradoxes related to the company NSB. The number of bus passengers is more than twice the number of train passengers and the growth in the number of bus passengers is three times that of the number of train passengers. It's a paradox. The railway undertaking – that is, both the passenger train and freight train operations – is in significant decline overall. What saves NSB – at least in 2011, where we have profit figures – is the property business. But it's also a bit of a paradox that it's the property business that makes it a solid result, at least so that you can talk about taking dividends. There are two distinct paradoxes, and I ask the Council of State to assess them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3560	In fact, I think that Blackevik and I could actually agree that it's a paradox that we often discuss public transport as if it's just about rail, because a large part of the collective transport work is actually on the road by bus, generally speaking. So a little comment on just that paradox – it has a little bit to do with the debate around: I think there are different aspects of both the bus business and the property business that you can discuss, but the government believes that Norway is currently well served with a company where you can have both the businesses passenger train, freight train, bus and property coordinated in one company, and where those parts of the business can also support each other and provide a good overall transport offer. So we have no immediate plans to make any changes to the integration between the parts that are in today's company.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3567	In his previous reply, the Council of State said that she ‘preliminary’ saw it as the government’s assessment in the case of Sortevik. It might have been interesting to ask if it is such that the government is thinking about a new decision since it chose to use the word ‘temporary’. My question goes to the NSB and the Railway Agency. I felt that the Council of State partly clarified it in its article, but I wanted to get it clarified. Now the government has submitted its case around the NSB, and there is no change there. But the high opinion about the NSB and the Railway Agency – the idea that it might be a merger – is it an idea that the government intends to move on with? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3574	In the case of the term ‘preliminary’, it is not exactly the perspective of eternity that we are talking about, but at least about the period that applies to ownership. It is usually the four-year period to which the ownership messages relate, from the Storting to the next. In the owner’s message there is no suggestion from the government to incorporate the Railway Agency and the NSB. What's a little sad about that debate is that you can't raise an interesting issue without being interpreted there that one has actually decided that that's what the government will go for. This is, of course, an improperly interesting debate, which at least deserves some attention — and which may also deserve some transparency, without one thus having to say that one has concluded. There is a debate that is very important in many other European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3581	First back to the first line change. One point is that this underlines the importance of bus-based passenger transport and the importance of the road network for good public transport. But the paradox is that it is a railway company that transports far more passengers than train passengers. So to line number two, to the understanding and interaction between the Railway Agency and the NSB. We have had episodes and periods in the past where there has been poor interaction, and where there has been a very different perception of where the limits of responsibility go – who is responsible for what, by the Railway Agency and the NSB – to get the trains forward in time and avoid great delays. I understand that we have again recently had a situation in which at least the manager of the train in the NSB looks at the railway station as a little square and makes you get more stops than necessary. Is the Council of State sure the interaction is good?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3590	It is my impression that this interaction has become increasingly better, and that it works well at an overall level, in the sense that there is a widespread dialogue both at the top management level and at the bottom of the organisation. Then there'll probably be situations where one might disagree about some of the actual conditions, and maybe also about cause contexts, but overall, I have the impression that that relationship is better now than it's ever been before.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3597	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3613	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3620	The report on the activities of Avinor provided a good picture of the development of the company since the previous owner’s message was presented in 2009. The majority of Avinor’s strategies have been fixed since the company was launched in 2003, and the message is not designed to change them either. Avinor’s societal mission is to own, operate and develop a nationwide network of Civil Sector Airports and a comprehensive civil and military air navigation service. The general rule must be that the operation and development of aerodromes must be managed within the Avinor system. The solidarity scheme in which the excess of the business-economically profitable airports are involved in operating and developing non-surplus airports is very important for regional development. The main revenue-generating airports need to ensure good framework conditions in order for them to be able to contribute positively both economically and in terms of traffic in the large airport network in the future. Similarly, the smaller airports must be guaranteed an operational standard to ensure that the important role they have in the Single Airport Network is not weakened. Then there are so many places in our country that the airports and the grid are decisive for busses and business. In the context of the financial crisis, air traffic fell in 2008 and 2009, but the years after that, there has been a great growth, and the forecasts now indicate a traffic growth of 2.3 pst. in the years ahead. Norway has committed itself to international cooperation by joining NEFAB, and a Joint Committee is engaged in furthering this cooperation with a view to achieving a single airspace block, including Sweden and Denmark. The Committee welcomes the fact that the Ministry of Transport wants to facilitate more direct routes between abroad and several of our airports, but we are also gathering to express a clear desire that we have to have time-saving and streamlined changes in the system currently in force for the handling of air passengers in transfers at Norwegian Airports. Simplification in this field will be positive for travellers, and it will make Norwegian Airports even more attractive. When it comes to investment in new Airports, a joint committee welcomes Avinor’s plan to invest in new Airports at Helgeland – Mo i Rana – and new Airport in Hammerfest, and that further work will be done on resolving the issue of a new solution for the Lofoten Airports. It is assumed that Avinor will be used to implement investments in new Helgeland and Hammerfest airports. In its comments, the opposition party points to the threat of investment at a number of other airports, while in that context the government party sees the investment plan and the NTP reference when it comes to the realisation of the individual projects. In the case of the air navigation service, the Committee agrees that Avinor is able to separate the air navigation division within Avinor AS in a subsidiary and it is stressed that Avinor is responsible for the adequate staffing of the air navigation service at any time. Situations of the type that occurred in the summer 2012 air traffic control service cannot be accepted. Avinor adds up to a high level of investment in the years ahead. The Committee agrees with the investment plan, but would nevertheless stress that the State that owns must follow closely the financial situation and come back to Stortinget with an update of the progress of the investment plan and a renewed assessment of the financial framework for Avinor. The Transport and Communications Committee, through its message and its hearings, has gained broad and transparent access to a field that is very important for linking the country and our people together. The Norwegian aviation model is a success, and I have good faith in Avinor – also for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3648	Before the next speaker gets the floor, the President will only make it clear that this matter is without distinction, and that the timing of the speech does not involve a requirement to take the word, nor a requirement to use the entire speaking time. This is a general remark and not specifically addressed to the next speaker, who is the representative of Jan-Henrik Fredriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3653	Aviation in Norway is important and in this way this Communication on Avinor makes a good contribution to putting aviation on the agenda. The airline provides it with the travel offer in Norway, which is actually the real nationwide travel offer we have. It is therefore extremely important both for the larger airports — with population concentrations — and for the smaller areas, which depend on aviation, in the same way as the central ones, to everything from ambulances to sick transport. The need is nationwide, big and important. Aviation must be based on sound competition throughout the business chain in order to provide passengers with the best possible range of services. It is appropriate to facilitate competition in contracts for the operation, maintenance and development of our aerodromes with clear and clear quality requirements and safety requirements. For the Advance Party, it is essential that airports not covered by the Avinor system are also treated in the same way as airports in the Avinor system. This applies to Sandefjord Airport, Torp, and Moss Airport, Back, where the opening regulations that need to be enforced are similar to those used at Avinor airports. However, the Notodden, Skien and Stord are also in a situation outside the Avinor system and should be treated in a non-discriminatory way through today’s cross-financing arrangements. There will be very rapid errors when the business community at Stord is important enough to justify cross-financing, while the business community at Skien and Notodden is not. Therefore, the Progress Party proposes to include Notodden and Ski in Avinor’s cross-financing system in the NTP setting. It looks almost as if someone has spoken together and got something approved, but for this room non-discrimination should be a principle. The Progress Party wants effective aviation and sees that there are considerable efficiency possibilities for passengers today. Travelers and personal goods arriving in Norway via Gardermoen must be treated customs at Gardermoen. A better solution would be the establishment of a ‘transit street’ for travellers, so that passengers can travel directly from abroad to land with customs duties on final destination. Each passenger throws away almost one hour to wait for the luggage, then to toll and then queue for a new check-in at the Gardermoen. This will also improve the situation for airlines. It is a little pointless when the government claims that there are fewer working groups to do this and find a solution. It's time for action. EU countries such as Sweden and Denmark have this in place, and the time is overdue for us to get it in place in Norway as well. The Progress Party, like the Ministry of Transport, is critical of the development of Avinor’s commercial activities that do not support the core business. It is aimed at property companies, hotel operations, car parks and parking spaces. An expansion of activities may conflict rapidly with local, regional and national businesses. The Progress Party is in favour of establishing air safety in a separate limited liability company, which is also essential in order to meet requirements as an independent economy under new EU rules. But the Progress Party disagrees that this must be a subsidiary of Avinor. Such a company – owned by Avinor – is probably owned and run by another monopolist, Avinor, where the ownership company can control the bottom line at any time as one wishes it through pricing. Finally, the Progress Party supports Avinor’s efforts to put in place remote control of smaller aerodromes and assumes that safety is also well maintained here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3670	I will try to take note of the President's request not to use full speaking time. The Bondevik II Government significantly modernised Norwegian aviation. Avinor was then given the opportunity to develop and make good investment plans for the future. We see that it has worked. That's why the Right is essentially very pleased with the service that Avinor performs, and looks like it's going to be just as good in the future. Good air transport is crucial for the population and the industry in the districts. Today, Avinor is facing large investments – approx. 20 B.C.E. Total NOK It is primarily about the large airports that have profits but have a sharp increase in traffic. It is also about Helgeland, Lofoten and Hammerfest, which all three need a certain extension – and one of them also completely new airport. We are pleased that the government says that if these expansions are to be carried out, there will be funds. We must, and we are pleased to be said here. We also agree with the cross-financing proposed by the government, where funds are transferred from large to small, and it is right to focus on the cost level of small airports. We believe that this is very important, and it is done with the program «Remote Tower», which has been tried in Lofoten with control from Bodø. In our opinion, this is very successful. A year ago, we had trouble with the air traffic controllers. We think that's solved for this summer, and we're very happy about that. Nevertheless, we believe that air navigation services should be distinguished from airport services. It sounds natural. We would also point out that, to the extent that conflict may arise, air traffic controllers do not need to be able to Norwegian, because at least the working language is English. We are also concerned that Rygge and Torp should have the same framework conditions as the 46 airports operated by Avinor, both in terms of opening hours, and in terms of costs for others. Another thing I want to address is the baggage management when you come from abroad. We've done that over some time now. There is a working group that is well in the process of delivering its setting, and we hope that we can get a quick response to this question. We believe that the four major airports should be included in this, as long as passengers go to an aerodrome where customs practices exist. Finally, some issues of cost. We're a little worried about cost developments. German Airport Performance, which had a review of Avinor a little ago, found that efficiency was less today than in 2002. We know that a lot is going very well, but that parts of the business are a little expensive. Knowing that European aviation has an intention to reduce air traffic costs by at least one third, this will be a challenge. We hope that the company will be able to handle this. We wish them good luck.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3691	At the request of the President, I have made significant reductions in the manuscript. That is why I will mainly just join the case-speaker's excellent contributions, not least to what is linked to the task force that works with customs processing to get a simplification there. That conclusion must come soon. I don't think it's the first thing that comes to Avinor, but I think I'd rather go to a department other than the Department of Transport. So I thought the rental in Avinor would give the impression that a person is working well and has peace of mind – at least for the time being. You often get to do more when playing on layers. Finally, there are two things that I want Avinor to take even greater care of. I get a lot of questions related to noise, not least when it concerns my own airport - the Sun. Is it possible to do more to ensure that the neighbours do not get so much trouble with noise from the aerodrome? The other applies to universal design. Some wheelchair users tell me that one airline is visiting streets that are universally designed, and that wheelchair users can thus run normally, but that other companies run to the streets where you have to go down the stairs, and thus have to have assistance to get down. If it was possible to do something about it, a few more satisfied users would.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3702	The Central Party will stress that Avinor’s societal mission is to own, operate and develop a nation-wide network of airports and air navigation services for the civil and military sectors. When I say this, it's because I'm concerned that Avinor doesn't want to spread the business in so many other areas than what's the core business. It is also very important to stress that the solidarity mechanism in which the profits from the economically profitable operating airports contribute to the operation of non-profit airports is continued. It is just solidarity to ensure that the whole country can have a fine-skinned network of airports for the benefit of its people. The parties to the concentration are therefore in favour of a further investment in airports. I can mention Stokka and Stokmarknes, that further plans are being made for a new airport in Mo in Rana and in Hammerfest, and that the clarification related to the new airport in Lofoten will be continued. Furthermore, it is important that smaller airports are guaranteed an operational standard that ensures the important role they have; that that role is not impaired. For many with me, this is part of the most important collective offer we have. It ensures that we can travel effectively from north to south and vice versa, also internally in parts of the country and regions. I also have a mission that I want to mention to Avinor. It is that provision must be made for the development of collective provision around airports. It is important that as far as the provision of collective services is concerned, there should be as much seamless a journey as possible. Like several of the previous speakers, the Centre Party is also in favour of providing a simpler and more effective customs clearance for passengers in transfers at Norwegian airports. Finally, the centre party concludes on the investment plan to which Avinor submits but sees that it is important for the State to follow closely so that the planned investments can be realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3715	Avinor is a success story. The transformation that made the Aviation Agency Avinor has taken place over several years, and we are now seeing the result – very good operation. There is something to think about, that the railway works too were in the same positive transition and could have been in a much better position if the red-greens had not chosen to complete the renewal process that was going on there. I would like to point out a matter that the case spokesperson also raised. This applies to the way we treat the passengers who travel or who travel on. This was a matter I raised with the then Minister of Transport Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa in Stortinget on 10 November 2009. I referred to the practice at Arlanda, and Meltveit Kleppa said she would follow this up. Almost two years before we got a workgroup. That working group was set up in the summer of 2011. Now it's almost two years. We have not received any results from this work. So we can only see that the Swedish do this in a better way, which is more friendly for the travellers. We're still waiting for answers. Perhaps the Council of State can say something about this? It is superior that we have had a modernisation of Norwegian aviation. Avinor, former Air Force, became a state-owned AS. Avinor has been given completely different possibilities. They can set plans, and not least they can be foresaw and secure in what they do. Now it's time to take new steps. It also adds up to the government. They will separate the air navigation division. It may provide opportunities for Nordic cooperation – although there is something we do not know – but it offers new and greater opportunities for Avinor. Avinor will make investments for SEK 20.6 billion in the period 2013-2017. kr. We know there's a lot of investment. However, there is something I am concerned about, and that is true of the situation in Flesland. Investments that are absolutely necessary to make in Flesland, but which are not in place because one invests in other places, now make Flesland dependant. We see that the situation in Flesland is quite critical, and it is therefore important that this work follows the original plans of Avinor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3726	In a piggy country like Norway, aviation is important for maintaining housing and employment in all parts of the country. For the government, the state ownership of Avinor is a central political instrument for the whole country to have a good aviation offer. The social mission of Avinor is to own, operate and develop a nationwide network of civil aviation airports and an overall air navigation service, and it is the State that decides which airports it is to operate. Avinor shall, as far as possible, be maritime funding and the solidarity of co-financing between airports, so-called cross-subsidies, shall be continued. In the Communication, the Government has underlined that it will ensure the Avinor framework conditions enabling the company to maintain and further develop a forward-looking and efficient airport network. As a result of traffic growth, Avinor is facing large investments in the next few years. Avinor’s investment plan for 2013-2017 includes investments of SEK 20.6 billion. kr. The government is in favour of the investment plan and assumes that the majority of the investments will be carried out within the current framework. However, the Communication shows that the government will follow closely the situation and come back to the Storting during 2014 with an update of the progress of the investment plans and a review of Avinor’s framework conditions. After the message was submitted, I have been briefed by Avinor about overshoots in the extension of the Gardermoen. Such an exceedance is unfortunate and the Ministry of Transport will follow this closely to Avinor. At the same time, the type of exceedance that the government will have to include in the assessments when we return to Stortinget in 2014. The Ministry of Transport has noticed that there is a potential for efficiency in Avinor, and I base my expectations on an improvement in the efficiency of the company. In the Communication, the Government has shown that it is positive that Avinor is planning further investments in new airports at Helgeland, Mo in Rana and Hammerfest. In line with the National Transport Plan, further work will be undertaken on regional policy clarifications and a broader assessment of the regional policy implications for Helgeland, while further investigation of the localisation issue is needed for Hammerfest. None of these projects are part of Avinor’s investment plan, and the government assumes that Avinor will be provided with funds to implement these investments. As announced in the NTP, there is a further need to investigate the issue of new airport solutions for Lofoten. It also follows from the NTP that a process is to be launched to establish a long-term civil aviation solution in Bodø. The government will return to Stortinget with an assessment of how any State aid should be organised in the event of changes in the airport structure. The development of the air navigation service is a major part of the notification. Air navigation and airport operations are two different business lines and the Ministry of Transport will allow Avinor to separate the air navigation division as a separate subsidiary of Avinor AS. The Ministry of Transport will not otherwise allow Avinor to engage in the provision of air navigation services abroad, in addition to what may result from Norway’s participation in the North European airspace block NEFAB. Nor does the Ministry of Transport consider it appropriate to compete with air navigation services in Norway. However, the Ministry will allow airports outside Avinor which are currently purchasing air navigation services from Avinor to choose whether to purchase from there or to purchase air navigation services from other suppliers. The representative Hareide asked me a question about a simplified transfer and referred to the history of the case. It is true that a wide-ranging working group has been set up to address that problem and they give up their attitude during these days. The government then aims to come back with a further assessment and clarification of that issue quite quickly. As a summary, I would like to point out that the communication provides a solid basis for the good development of Avinor in the next few years, so that the company can fulfil the important societal mission they have, even in the future. And I have to say that I am pleased that there is a unanimous committee behind today's vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3754	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3758	We see that Avinor has great investment needs in the next few years, and although I understand that the four largest airports are a priority, Avinor must also invest a number of other places – from Kjevik, Kristiansand, in the south to Kirkenes and Hammerfest in the north. What do the Council of State think about today's dividend policy, where today we take over 500 million. kr in dividends, which are transferred in favour of the state treasury – money that Avinor could well have invested in airport improvements? And isn't it true that Avinor uses this money best for himself, when we see what problems they actually have in front of them?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3763	The government does not consider any changes in today’s dividend policy, which is not specific to Avinor, but which applies to state companies on a general basis, and to which all state companies – including Avinor – will have to deal. So we haven't linked dividend policy to the needs they necessarily have in their investment plan, but we also say in the message that we will come back to the question of a possible injection of funds, among other things. in the case of the type of airports mentioned by the representative here and also in the case of other parts of the Avinor investment plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3768	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3773	This has been a pleasurable debate – uncontroversial, and all cheers. An important part of Norwegian infrastructure has moved outside the state budget to a separate company that has to make its own assessments, its own investment plans, get its own budget, can ask for equity from the state – which will be money added outside the rule of action – and all are brilliantly satisfied and cheered for the goodness of Avinor. One is a little concerned about the potential overrun of investments, but no one questions the way this happens, no one questions the organisation. On the contrary, a very happy one. Then I start to wonder: When this is a success, why do we not look at this as a way of organising road construction and railway development – in line with what the Minister of Finance recommended before he became Minister of Finance, for example. to organise the State Road Service – or the Railway Agency – in the same way as Avinor? Because then we could also give them the same opportunity to plan long-term, have their own budget and implement the projects better and cheaper than today. One is therefore in agreement that Avinor is a good idea, and I hope this debate has also inspired us to look at how to organise other infrastructure. One has got it to the airport, one has got it to the power lines, one has got it to the power plant, the breeding plant – but unfortunately not on the road and the railway. I'm not going to finish the debate any more, except to hope that at least the Minister of Transport is reflecting a little on this. She was supposed to be a fresh breath in the government, but so far she's unfortunately a brake.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3784	The representative Hareide, and now Solvik-Olsen, spoke in his contributions about the organisation of Avinor and told us that it was successful and that the company operates well. That's okay, and that's what we're in agreement with, but I'm sure I'll stress that there's been some cutting in the sea on the way from the Swedish Aviation Agency and up to today, to say the least, but we're glad that it's a company that's going well today. But even more interestingly, it is when the representative Hareide compares Avinor to the railway station. That's kind of a funny comparison. Avinor has, among other things: revenue options entirely different from those of the Railway Agency, including: tax-free. Does the Christian People's Party believe that it is an idea to open this up also at railway stations?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3791	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3805	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3814	This was a matter that came very late, but it came well for the many who are affected by the violent traffic that has evolved on rv. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox It is nice that a majority of the committee – all but the Progress Party – have gathered comments on the main issue. The Oslo Earth Tunnel is of great importance. Rv. 23 The Oslo compound is of great importance as a way of unloading outside and south of Oslo. Since the road was opened, traffic growth has been high, from 3,900 cars per day at the opening in 2000 to 6,900 in 2012. Today's tunnel has unsatisfactory regularity. Those who hear the traffic message on NRK radio almost daily hear that the Oslofjord tunnel is closed. In the period 2008–2010, it has been closed 435 times. The large traffic growth has also made the traffic situation towards the Drammen, especially past Lahell in Lier and into Asker and through Frogn very difficult. At Lahell, annual traffic is almost 20,000 cars through a 40-zone in the middle of a residential area. The majority indicates that it is proposed in the national transport plan to deploy Dagslett-Linnes, a link between Lier and Smoke, and to further connect to E18 during the planning period. This is absolutely necessary, and should of course have been in place long before it became relevant to extend the Oslofjord connection to two races. The majority support the proposal to continue toll collection at reduced rates at the existing toll station on Monday for up to three years, once the current project has been paid down in August 2013. Furthermore, the majority supports an investigation of bridge as an alternative to rv tunnel. 23 Oslofland compound. In parallel, the State Road Service is asked to continue its work on a plan for the construction and financing of a possible new tunnel. If the construction of a new tunnel is unlikely to be relevant, toll revenue will be used for other measures in the area, in consultation with Buskerud and Akershu County Municipalities. The majority will stress that all the municipalities concerned and the two counties support such a scheme. In the view of the majority, it will be necessary to use some of the funds required for road safety measures along existing rvs. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox In addition, the majority will request that a future extension of the Spike Town Railway, with connection to the Eastfold Railway, be considered in the investigation of a bridge alternative. In view of the strong population growth in and around Oslo, a ring road south of Oslo will be very interesting. Rv. 23 is part of the trans-European road network in Norway, the TEN-T road network, and there is a requirement for upgrading the safety of the tunnel by 30 April 2019 at the latest. The majority will take into account the proposed improvements in R & D. 23, ask that this be reclassified as a final part of E134, which today stops in the Drammen, and instead proceed to the Vassum Cross against the E6 in Frogn. So this was addressed in the comments in the national transport plan. The members of the Committee from the Right also point to the fact that Moss-Horten is the most busy national road ferry service in Norway, and that when one is about to make a draft selection inquiry for this with the Oslofjord crossing, one must also take into account the possibilities that lie in a crossing further south. I would like to stress that this matter really shows how crooked one can get out of the hope if one does things in the wrong order. Daylight – Linnes has been planned for as long as I have been engaged in politics, and that is quite a long time. There have been delays, there have been demands for double tunnels that have led to ten new years, etc. Meanwhile, the Oslofjord tunnel was completed. It has had a formidable traffic growth and has been paid down to approx. 13 years, while one has not done anything with the connection path towards the E18 and Drammen that one should have had in place for the longest. Now, fortunately, this seems to be going into order by a set of funds for rv. 23 Daylight–Lines in the first scheduled period, and that one gets to connect to the Drammen at E18 in the last scheduled period. It's very important, because the people who live along this road, and there are quite a few, experience a daily traffic noise – I'm not going to use stronger words here – with up to 20,000 cars, including a very large proportion of car trains. So here's got to extend the toll collection for three years, until one gets in place something new.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3849	This is a special case to get treatment in Stortinget. First of all, it comes just before the Storting ends. Not enough for the government to be able to send NTP long after it had been announced that NTP would come to Stortinget: Only 14 days before the Grand Duchy should separate, the Committee will have a new case, to deal with a proposal to continue toll collection – on a project that has been paid down. I'm quite surprised at some of the parties that at least say that the prerequisite for saying yes to this is to benefit from the toll project. But here you're going to charge 130-140 million. kr net per year for three years, without those who actually use the road, perhaps ever, experiencing the value of the money they are going to pay into tolls. There is a state emergency which is why this case is now coming to Stortinget, because what is going to happen to toll projects is that when the project is paid down, the bomb is gone. But here the state hasn't made it clear that the traffic is much higher than what was supposed to be, and just let it slide and go. Then the result comes, and then you just have to say no, we just have to keep charging money, because if not we get trouble because there are too many cars running through the tunnel – a dangerous tunnel that should never have been built, and which definitely now does not meet either Norwegian requirements or EU requirements for how tunnel safety should be. There's trouble that's going on and on. Almost every day there's some unforeseen event happening in that tunnel. You try to make it look like it's because now you're going to figure out what to do about it, that you're going to keep collecting it – and that this is going to pay for that investigation. But then it says with a few lines that the reason really is that there's so much traffic that you can't keep it open without continuing to collect it. The rapporteur tried to see that there were reduced tariffs. It's also a truth with very big modifications. For all heavy-duty cars, the price goes up, and for all private drivers who have had a discount scheme of 40 p.p., the price also goes up. So everyone who uses and runs through the tunnel every single day gets an increased toll cost, despite the fact that one later on as if this scheme were getting cheaper. I also think the Storting should notice that NAF has made a very comprehensive letter about what they think that the majority of people are now doing, as well as that this violates the principle of utility. I think it's strange that you have a majority who think it's okay just to continue to skin the drivers on this route. I understand that some of the things that may really be the reason is that it may be fun to continue to collect tolls, so that you do not now take it away and reintroduce it when you choose a new solution – whether it be a bridge or a new tunnel to be built next to the existing one – because then I think many people will react to a new toll station and that the State does not take the responsibility it actually has, even under the Road Act Section 20, that it is the State that is responsible for road development in Norway. But that is the responsibility of this government – unfortunately in recent years with the goodwill of the other political parties – is not very much of a concern. For what was supposed to be a spice layer has now become the main source of income. It's the drivers that finance. When the representative of Greece refers to the ferries-free connection Østfold-Vestfold, Moss-Horten, we fully agree with that. But it does not fit into this matter at all, and therefore we did not choose to go into the comment from the Right. But we take up the proposals of the minority, the Progress Party, and we challenge the Council of State to take part in the purchase of an industrial fire truck – which is important in tunnel safety – and the equipment that the Fire Service in Søndre Follo has asked for, which has so far refused to give to the municipalities, as far as the Ministry and the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness. Now I hope at least that you take that responsibility, so that you don't get any more accidents, and that you have the equipment you need to handle it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3870	The representative of Hoksrud has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3873	The government is proposing to extend toll collection by rv. 23, the Oslo soil connection between Akershus and Buskerud. It proposes to extend it until three years after August 2013. I want to be very clear that this is the only sensible thing. It was late, but it was early enough for it to be implemented. The bomb on Moon is absolutely central. It has – as far as I remember – a price of 60 kroner for passenger car reviews. If that charge were to fall off, the traffic through the Oslofjord tunnel would increase considerably, and as many people have been in it, it would burden not least the smoke and Lier in an unreasonable way. What we are talking about is, among other things, to maintain a toll charge in order to distribute the traffic which has the options either to enter Oslo or outside Oslo through the Oslo Tunnel. So we're talking about controlling traffic. Furthermore, it is true, as it is said, that the Oslofjord tunnel is a dangerous tunnel. Anyone who has read geology understands it quite quickly. It's in the middle of the Oslo Earth that we've separated the base mountain area from the Oslo field. It's unbelievably demanding to cross it. Here we're talking about central geological formations that involve unwavering powerful forces. Both as a result of increasing capacity and increasing safety, there is now a need to explore bridge and tunnel options. It is good that the Council of State looks at both options so that one gets the necessary technical support to make a decision. It is also said from the government that if new tunnels are not available, the tolls could finance other measures in the area. I would say that tolling on Moon is the only sensible place to just take the transit traffic. It is transit traffic that has created the need for the tunnel. It is transit traffic that creates the problems on the Buskerud side, and therefore it is central that transit traffic pays tolls. That's the only thing that makes sense. It was late, but it was fine. It is good that the government submits the proposal. We'll get a clarification. Three years of toll collection provides the necessary money to finance roads in the area, whether the solution is one way or the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3888	I want to join in completely until the last time that the representative Lundteg said. I would not have opposed it if the cases had come before. But the government's conclusion is the right one. It has been a debated decision, I believe. I think it's a brave decision the government has taken. We should be aware that when we discuss tolls, it is of course important to bring the principle of utility. Towards big cities, tolls also have a controlling effect. I'll be concerned about traffic safety in the Oslo Earth Tunnel if one doesn't have this controlling effect. That is why I am pleased that the government has reached this conclusion. I agree with the representative Per Olaf Lundtigen's words that the presentation came late, but well, but that was also the only thing true.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3897	We are in the situation where the representative Martin Kolberg has a speaking time of five minutes. The President considers it reasonable that we should allow everyone five minutes' speaking time before the Council of State gets the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3900	As Stortinget may know in part, I represent Lier and Buskerud. This is an important day for us, especially considering the decision that is linked to getting the tunnel from Dagslet to Linnes. It has been lengthened, and I agree with what the representative of Greece said in his statement, where he presented the matter in a good and fine way. He expressed the concern we have all had for the great traffic that has gone through Lier for so many years. I remember that there was a lot of discussion about the construction of the tunnel and the connection in its time, and you couldn't at the time imagine how much traffic was going to be. It's getting big, and it's going to grow. It is also desirable from a general point of view that this traffic grows in terms of Oslo, so that Oslo is relieved of its traffic volume. That we're getting it into place now is important. Equally important is what the rapporteur also said, namely where the connection to E18 will come from. This is the big problem for Lier, which is how to lead this tunnel connection to E18. Then you have to move on to very sensitive areas. It's clear that the investigation work that's about to begin is very important to do, and we hope we can do it during the planning period. I see that the road manager is present. I use the occasion through Stortinget to tell him that it is of great importance for Lier to have a good pressure on that planning, of course together with the competent environments in the municipality of Lier, which in its own way has a responsibility here. It is not necessary to say it several times, but I just want to briefly commend the government for the decision to continue the tolling. It is the only right thing to do in view of how this link over or under the spring is to continue for the future. Without this, we wouldn't have gotten it. I am amazed that the Progress Party with such great commitment is opposed to what is obviously right in this context, namely to implement the tolling system, so that we can implement this planning in a serious and proper way. It is not possible to imagine a good solution to the traffic link in this area for the future without an effective link over the fjord.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3909	There are some issues that offer some demanding balances. In a way, this right here is such a case. That is why I am very pleased that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy today is supporting the proposal to extend the toll collection to link the rv. 23 in Akershus and Buskerud together. Today's collection is scheduled to end in August this year. Construction stage 1 of the project will then be paid down. However, in the 1996 proposal on partial toll financing of the Oslofjord link, it was provided that the project would be expanded in two stages in line with traffic developments. One must say – as the representative of Kolberg also said – that the question is whether at that time the level of traffic development would be foreseen. Traffic growth in the tunnel has been much higher than foreseen. The tunnel has been closed and has had poor regularity. I also think we should take into account that there are stricter requirements for tunnel safety now than it was in 1996. The State Road Service has initiated the planning of other construction steps with a new parallel tunnel run. At the same time, such a decision is taken on some options that are very long-term when it comes to crossing the Oslofjorden. This means that, in addition, the Ministry of Transport has asked the State Road Service to provide a bridge solution as an alternative to a tunnel, allowing decision-making authorities to have the necessary width for their decisions. Possible solutions for the bridge or tunnel are part of the ongoing investigation work of crossing the Oslofjord. If, after the investigation process, the conclusion is that a new tunnel will be built, the Ministry will, within three years, present a detailed plan for the construction and financing of other stages of construction. On the other hand, any brewing solution will be longer in time. The present proposal for extended toll collection is not intended to be used to finance any toll solution. If the construction of a new tunnel is not relevant, but brown instead, the revenue, in consultation with Buskerud and Akershu County Councils, could be used for road actions in the area. I have noticed that the Progress Party believes that the need for traffic regulation is the decisive argument for the continuation of the toll collection. That's not the case. The present proposal for the continuation of the recovery is primarily intended to finance the construction of any new tunnel. Obviously, the traffic growth that you have experienced, and that you're likely to experience, is an argument that you have to find a solution for crossing the Oslo Earth very quickly. All the municipalities concerned, and Buskerud and Akershus counties, have joined the proposal for extended collection. On behalf of the government, I am very pleased that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy is also joining that proposal today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3925	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3928	No one disagrees that this is an important project to get in place. Although the Council of State says that this is not the reason for continuing, the argument of several of the previous speakers has been that this should prevent traffic from increasing. But now leave it. I want to challenge the Minister of Transport: although it will be toll-financed, there will probably still be many incidents in the tunnels. Sdr. Follo Fire Service has asked for assistance to purchase a proper industrial fire truck in the light of their own experiences. They need equipment other than what you initially thought you needed. Then is my challenge to the Council of State: Will the Council of State look at this, and help to contribute? It is clear that the State Road Service can help you get the equipment you need.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3935	Let me first get a little bit more precise. I said about traffic control that it was not the main reason, but I do not deny that it is also a moment. So here I think you have to be able to have the mind attached to both relationships that were mentioned. In the case of a fire engine, I have to say: the state road service has been asked by Søndre Follo fire service to grant emergency equipment. It has been carefully assessed in the State Road Service. They indicate in their letter of reply that the Smoking Aviation Station is in immediate proximity and that the Oslo Fire and Rescue Station has mobile fan equipment which can be recovered in the event of major fires. Therefore, they do not consider it appropriate to comply with Follo's request for grants. The Directorate of Roads has endorsed the assessment of the State Road Service, and the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness has also endorsed such an assessment. I therefore find no reason to ask questions about the assessments made in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3942	If no one from other parties wishes to speak, it is all right that the representative Hoksrud should be given the floor for a reply. - Representative Bård Hoksrud, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3945	Thank you for that, President. In the committee I was promised that someone else would give away their line, as I asked that we have five lines. That's why I figured I'd get another line. I have to say, I am quite baffling about the argument, that it's just picking up a fire truck from the airport at Rygge. It is quite far from Moss and Rygge to the Oslofjord tunnel. When there's a big fire inside a tunnel, it's about seconds, and not many minutes. So I bump a lot over the answer. I have some experience, from the time I was in the military. Then I was in the fire service and learned how important it was to get to the fires quickly and to put them out as quickly as possible. So I think this seemed something searched. I will once again ask the Council of State to take this back. There's nothing to suggest that traffic is going to go down, even if you're still going to charge tolls on that route. Everything suggests that growth will continue, despite the assumptions that lie there, and what the majority will adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3954	As I said, I find no reason to question the assessments made by various trade unions in this matter – both by the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness, the Road Administration and the Road Directorate. But I want to say that in terms of tunnel safety, there has been some cooperation between the road authorities and the Directorate of Social Security and preparedness to review this more on a general basis. It's a work that's important and will point forward. Without me being able to connect it directly to this tunnel, this might also matter here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3961	It is very important that you now start the flat work to get a quick clarification of what you want to do – whether it is a tunnel or a bridge. It's also very important to look at the remainder of the rv. 23, until the Smoke Town Hall, which was the new road. I don't remember how many, but there are five to six tunnels, which will also get the increased load if it gets new and improved Oslofjord connection. It's inside the plan to look at the whole connection on Rv. 23 until the smoke, possibly with the connection of the new Tageslett-Linenes, which becomes a four-field road?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3966	The ongoing KVU work is about crossing the Oslofjorden. It's about choice between tunnel and bridge. In addition, there are some other issues related to the crossing of Oslofjorden. I cannot say on the stand whether the points raised by the representative are in that assessment. I'll get familiar with that. I think it would be natural to include it in the further investigation work. Otherwise, I fully agree that in the light of traffic growth, this is an urgent investigation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3971	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3987	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose a replacement of lines, with up to three lines of response from the government post-intervention – within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e3994	This is also a matter that has come a little late for consideration in the committee from the government. It has been dealt with by the Committee in a timely manner. It has not been a difficult matter, and there has been a great deal of political consensus about it – with a single exception. Environmental package step 2 is a continuation, of course, of the Environmental package step 1. There are eight parties in the local government in Trondheim and the county of South Trondelag that are now behind the environmental package in Trondheim – some more in step 2 than it was in step 1. What's nice to record is that it's good results so far. 2012 has been a jubilee for public transport in Trondheim and its surroundings. In Trondheim the number of passengers in the public transport sector rose by 10.8 p.m., while in the extended tariff cooperation area there has been 18.1 p.m. more public travellers. There were 2.3 million more bus and tram owners carried out last year than in 2011. In two years the increase has been 4.4 million journeys, or 23 pst. At the same time, it is gratifying to record that a smaller car is being driven. After the environmental package toll points came up in the spring of 2010, car traffic has been reduced by 10 pst. This is the result of a conscious policy. A number of measures have been put in place to make more people travel collectively, lower prices and better route provision. Collective fields and signal priorities have been established. According to the County rapporteur in the South-Trøndelag, the mantra and motto for public transport in Trondheim have been: faster, more often and faster. It turns out it's working. It is the combination of car-restrictive measures and improved collective services that have a positive impact. There are also positive results for road accident trends and for CO2 and NO2 emissions. We are many who believe that this is in line with the climate agreement. There are also measures that increase road safety and provide better solutions for cycling and walking in the environmental package. A comprehensive network of cycle paths is being built to further increase the large bicycle share already in Trondheim. It is gratifying to note that on 1 June, the world's only bicycle lift, the bike lift Trampe, which goes up to Bakkland, was reopened in an improved edition. It is one of the tangible evidence that the environmental package provides concrete results and concrete projects. An almost unanimous committee considers this to be in line with the climate agreement and that the good results are due to a combination of restrictive measures for private cars, upgrading the collective offer and upgrading the bicycle infrastructure. That is why there is no problem for an almost unanimous committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, to support the Committee's recommendation, which is in line with the government's proposal for a continuation of the environmental package in Trondheim – Environmental package step 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4017	I represent the exception, and I mention the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote. First to the formalities: this is one of several issues that has come too late from the government to be discussed in the Transport Committee. We have a protocol on this in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. The special thing about this case is that this also happened with step 1 in the Environmental Package Trondheim, which came to the Stortinget on 8 June 2009 – four years ago – then also overtime, so to speak, for 13 hours, in view of responsible treatment. This provides a superficial procedure. It gives the impression that the majority government actually sees Storting as a dispatch office, especially in toll cases. The Progress Party is too good an environment in the largest cities – we are too good an environment in Trondheim, in Bergen, in Stavanger and in Oslo. However, the Progress Party believes that the government must and must assume financial responsibility for the necessary investments in road and railway infrastructure in the big cities. We refer to our alternative proposal, which has been discussed earlier today in the context of the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023, where we are increasing investments for road and rail, and where the Progress Party also has its own major urban package. The Progress Party believes that the government must take far more responsibility for financing the operation of collective solutions. Once again, I refer to our proposal in the new NTP to change the conditions relating to the reward scheme and to change the arrangement of the new urban environment packages and through the Progress Party's own proposals on the big-city package and its own collective package. In particular, the Progress Party will ensure that bias in the purchase of public transport by the State in the major cities is offset by more priority given to those of the four which have little rail-based public transport and thus have little State contribution to such public transport. I refer you to our comments in connection with the NTP about that. With such a device, there will be good highways, there will be good collective solutions, and there will be a good environment in Trondheim too – and it will be without tolls. In this package there are tolls of a total of 7.9 billion. 2013-kronor. That's 300 million. NOK shall be used to pay interest, and shall be set at 850 million. kr shall be used to pay for the collection of tolls. Overall, the proposal provides a toll contribution of 6.5 billion. kr. In this package there's 2 billion. kr for collective, 1 billion SEK for investments and SEK 1 billion. kr for operation. Such funding is the consensus of the Advance Party. That's how this government chooses to finance the transport solutions. In eight years there have been many such cases. The party of progress has followed closely. It's become a formidable toll bill, now 166 billion. kr. That's the sum of all the toll financing projects that the Storting has been dealing with in the last eight years with a majority government. That's 120-billion-dollar toll. NOK, tolls to pay interest are 36 billion. Tolls and tolls for toll collection are 10,5 billion. kr. So the funding plug-in is almost 40 pst. It's going to be expensive in the world's richest country when the drivers have to buy their way to pay off.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4036	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to. The called alternate of the Hordaland County, Helge André Njåstad, now takes the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4044	Environmental package Trondheim step 2 is an extension of package 1. It's been successful. The aim was to reduce car traffic and increase public transport, and that has happened. Already in 2010, when the bombs were introduced, car traffic was reduced by 10 pst, and public transport has increased significantly. This package, step 2, was adopted by the local government in Trondheim in the spring of 2012, and eight parties were behind it. It was a year ago, and we could have gotten this package something before. This package has similar intentions: better main road networks, better provision of collective services, and better conditions for those who go and ride bicycles – and there is a significant potential in Trondheim. Lower climate emissions, shorter car queues and less traffic noise – all excellent. Now it's like this package costs a lot of money, $9.8 billion. kr, and it is heavily dependent on user financing. Therefore, the Right has said that the 50/50 distribution between road and environment should be the lowest in terms of road section – i.e. what is used for road. We note that the project with tunnel from Byåsen to Sluppen Bru is the last project in the environmental package. This project will relieve densely populated areas in the Byåsen for a significant amount of traffic, enhance the road safety of schoolchildren and allow the establishment of shuttle routes for buses from Byåsen to eastern parts of Trondheim – very important. Then we will stress that the road section of the environmental package needs to be planned, so that there is room for implementing this part of the project. Similarly, we point out that it is local political will to establish an external public transport system in addition to today's route through the centre. It will be very important, so that those who live on the east side of the city and work on the west side can commute and get through the city fairly well – and vice versa for those who live on the east side. It is necessary to plan for the implementation of this project. We support the project, despite the large cost. Traffic will improve significantly in Trondheim and its surroundings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4059	The case leader has done a good job for the majority in this matter. I want to take some of the responsibility that we have pressured the government to put it forward so late. We've also had pressure locally, from our own party, to get this case through, so that one can go on with the good work they've started. So I'm doing it today. So we're going to share some responsibility with the government here at Stortinget. This is a very good illustration that the climate agreement works, according to SV's opinion. One reduces the pollution from traffic in Trondheim, one gets more people to ride, and one gets more to take the bus and the tram – one can even take the lift with a bicycle, so it starts to approach good things. But then we have an illustration of how easy it will be for the Christian People's Party and the Right – and other parties who are involved in this – when the Progress Party comes. They only have carrots in their bag that they should throw at the selector. They don't have any restrictions on what they're doing, because the car has to come forward anyway, and then that's what's governing the policy. This means that with such packages as this – if any new government is going to treat them – a few major problems will arise because the Progress Party is not only against restrictions on car use and climate reconciliation, but they are also to remove the bombings, which actually makes this work. So here are the challenges in line. It's okay to want something new, but it's also important to move on with what works. This works in Stockholm, it works in Gothenburg, and it works in Trondheim. Business likes it, people like it -- now it's almost only people who don't like this policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4072	It is a pleasure that Stortinget now agrees that Trondheim can go further with step 2 of the environmental package. Step 2 is a continuation and extension of step 1, which was dealt with at Stortinget in 2009. Steps 1 and 2 form the whole of the environmental package and have been addressed in the context of the proposal. Step 1 of the environmental package was presented in St.prp. No 85 for 2008-2009 and was dealt with in the Stortinget in June 2009. Step 1 funds have mainly been used for two major road projects and a number of measures involving pedestrian and cyclist roads and public transport. Step 2 essentially implies a continuation and extension of step 1. The Trondheim Environmental Package includes, inter alia: the development of a relieving main road system around Trondheim and E6 south of the city. In addition, measures to facilitate public transport, walking and cycling are included. Priority is also given to road safety and the environment. The environmental package includes, inter alia: the aim of reducing car traffic and increasing journeys by environmentally friendly transport. It has been so far successful. Car traffic has been reduced by approx. 10 pst. since the toll collection started in 2010, and public transport has increased by about half. 40 pst. since 2008. The environmental package Trondheim is a collaboration with the financial contributions of the state, Sør-Trøndelag county municipality and Trondheim municipality, as well as contributions in the form of tolls. Step 2 provides a balanced balance between the necessary road development and the strengthening of environmentally friendly transport. The tolling system is extended by several tolling stations, and it is an action that will restrict car traffic but at the same time increases revenue to finance the development of a more environmentally friendly and efficient transport system. 16 new toll stations are planned in addition to today's 7. All toll stations are charged 24 hours a day and in both directions. The system of higher tariffs in the rush hour is going to be continued. It is important to stress that, after the new toll scheme has been in operation for one year, an evaluation shall be carried out to assess whether the toll collection and use of the tolling materials are designed to comply with the principle of efficiency. This applies, inter alia, to: in particular the relationship between Trondheim and surrounding municipalities. The extension of E6 Jakøya-Klett-Tonstad and Rv. 706 Release–Stavne is part of the Environmental Package Trondheim and has a total priority of 1.6 billion. kr in government funds in the national transport plan, which we have just dealt with. In addition, government funding goes over the programme areas, and government funding from the reward scheme and from the new scheme of overall urban environmental agreements is also relevant. The Trondheim Environmental Package means that work on removing public transport bottlenecks will continue, including: by establishing collective fields and upgrading current nodes and universally designed holding sites and improved traffic information. For those who come to Trondheim in a few years' time, the transformation of the Elgeseter Gate into a high-standard collective gate will appear to be a very wise solution. It is also added to renew the track between St. Olav's Gate and Ila. Like the majority of the committee, I believe that it is a strength for the Trondheim Environmental Package that there is a broad political consensus on step 2 and that almost the entire Stortinget, with the exception of the Progress Party, is behind the proposition. Finally, I would like to thank the Stortinget for a quick handling of the matter and also congratulate everyone in the Trondheim area who will benefit from the next step of the Trondheim Environmental Package.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4089	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4103	There is no debate. That means we're going to have a short debate, if any. Nor does the rapporteur want to speak. – Thus, case No. 17 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4117	Prop. 166 S for 2012–2013 relates to the adjustment of the basic amount of the public debt and pension settlement from 1 May 2013. There we have new rules, which are well known. I'm not going to have any debate on that, we've discussed that earlier in relation to how to regulate the new pensions. All parties support setting, except for the Progress Party. The Progress Party has its own proposal, in which we increase the basic amount based on what we have been dealing with in the past, and not least on the grounds that we believe there is a need for age pensioners to be reformulated, and without breaking legislation, given the underregulation that took place in previous social security settlements in 2008-2009. With that, I would like to address the motion put forward by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4126	The representative Robert Eriksson then mentioned the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4142	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4151	These proposals go to the heart of perhaps the most important lines of Norwegian policy. It is based on labour policy and on the pillars of the Norwegian model, which deal with the distribution of power and money in society – a pillar of community and welfare. The threat is quite obvious in these proposals presented by the Left, and if the rest of the opposition does not show the cards in the setting, we know that they are far on the way in many of these questions following the Left. It is at the heart of some of what has ensured safety in Norway, namely the trade union movement. It is intended to weaken its foundations by making more regulations in the labour market universal and not depending on whether the workplace has a collective agreement. The collective bargaining agreements are also strongly challenged by the release of job protection and clear rules on working time and the working environment, that they should apply to everyone regardless of whether they are organised or not, i.e. the possibility of having alternative schemes. In our view, this is a great threat to this bearer in Velferds-Norway. A civil government will make a big difference in this area. It can be done if one does not promote concrete proposals – it is in a way enough to hold hands, especially when one sees changes in the labour market with social dumping and heavy pressure on the rights of workers, which are speeding up the pace due to the financial crisis and increasing pressure from many unemployed people across Europe. A decent working life must be followed up and kept in claim every single day. The premise for some of these proposals is that working life has changed. Yes, it is, but not essentially as the Left describes it, namely that most people can decide their working hours seam and do parts of the job from the iPad on the cabin. No, most people have to be in the store, they have to be in the hospital, they have to teach at school, they have to drive the bus – they have to serve the functions they're going to be in the community. But the labour market is heavily changed, with large social dumping that threatens working life. That is why a so-called decoration of the rules proposed by the Left and, as I hear, large parts of both the Right and the Advance Party are also taking the floor, will change Norwegian working life – and then to the worse. The claim and the premise is that the rules are too rigid. No, the rules aren't rigid. There is a lot of flexibility in the rules as they are today, but a sort of step-by-step model has been created, where the possibilities of exceptions to the general rules are much greater if you are a trade union or have a large association behind you. It is precisely because we know that the individual worker is sometimes pressured beyond his ability to work. It is also because we know that there is no uniform relationship of strength between an employee and an employer, which is an enterprise. This level playing field on which the proposal is based is not present unless both the strength of the trade union movement and its ability to handle legislation jointly. I do not have time to review each proposal, but mainly I can say that a general access to temporary employment up to 12 months – as the Left wishes – will allow for much more temporary employees. It is the strong legal requirement for permanent employment that helps temporary staff to obtain permanent employment. This is the context in which temporary work can lead to permanent work. It is also the case that the requirement of agreement with employee organisations in terms of flexibility in working time rules is deliberately made because individual workers are not to be pressured into agreements that break with the main concern – that is, to have a working life that also takes people’s health into account, and that people should be able to stand out throughout their working life and reach the retirement age as a worker.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4166	I would first like to say that when you hear debates in this Chamber and also in the media, that employment policy is black and white, and that it is only today's government that is kind. The big horror picture is a new government and the bad wolves who are about to swallow down the working life that is built up over many generations. Of course, this is not everyday, and of course it's not the world. It has not been long since the Size Treatment Report. St. 29 for 2010–2011, the Employment Communication, in which both the Progress Party and the other non-socialist parties thoroughly announced their policies in all these areas. What is important for the Progress Party is that we want a work life that is safe, flexible and family friendly. We see that since the father of the Working Environment Act, Thorbjørn Berntsen, snow-creeded the Working Environment Act at the end of the 1970s, a lot has changed, both in the everyday life of families and business. In the view of the Progress Party, a modern society must also at all times be able to meet the challenges it brings into a working life. If we want a more inclusive working life and greater participation in the labour market, we are totally dependent on a more flexible working life, while at the same time maintaining the security that today's legislation provides within the framework of what you have. I am not going into the individual proposals and I am not going into everything that the rapporteur said, because we have had a major debate recently on the communication of working life, where the parties have made a very thorough announcement of their policy. But it is also right, as the rapporteur said, that the Progress Party agrees with some of the proposals that the Left is making in its proposal for a representative. We believe that it is in keeping both security and at the same time opening up more flexibility. It is also part of the proposals that the Left is promoting in its proposal for a representative, which the Progress Party is opposed to. There was an incurrence in the proceedings of the Committee. The Progress Party should have put forward a proposal that the matter be annexed to the minutes. It's not in the setting. It is too late to promote that proposal now, but we will vote against it on the grounds that we do not want the proposal to be rejected because we support parts of it. We're voting against it. We would have preferred it to have been attached to the Minutes. That's our reason to vote against the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4177	The President then perceived that this is an alert to vote against the proposals that are likely to be tabled and also to vote against the vote. There's a desire to put up the voting that way?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4180	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4185	Then it's registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4188	First of all, we are allies in the opposition, so we also make the same mistakes. One of the errors is that we in the committee have not promoted what should be our alternative position, namely that the matter should be annexed to the protocol. I have understood that it is possible to make a proposal about it even now, and that the Storting will decide whether or not to deal with that proposal. If possible, I would like to propose – at least on behalf of the Right – that it be annexed to the Minutes and that it be opposed to the position that is now in place. If we don't want to vote against the setting that exists. There is often something interesting about the employment debate in Norway, because, for some reason, when the opposition parties – at least the current opposition parties – promote proposals for decorations, adaptations and cautious liberalisation, it is immediately stamped as a kind of attack on the Norwegian model. Now it is worth remembering that it is not so terrible many years since it set a government that had the name Stoltenberg I. In that government, the exact same thing as the opposition has understood today, that in a working life that is still changing, a dynamic law is needed. Then, as former health minister Anne-Grete Ström-Erichsen, it is not useful to say that for the Workers' Party, the Working Environment Act is sacred – simply because sacred writings are not covered, while laws are still in place to be adapted to society as it actually is. When the Stoltenberg I government was in place, the need for a slightly more flexible work environment legislation was precisely seen. The current State Council, Jørgen Kosmo, took part, among other things. to have more flexible rules that would allow you to work more for some periods, and then to take it out in free time for other periods – just such a proposal as the entire opposition is now standing behind. He called for increased local control, i.e. the ability to negotiate more flexible working time arrangements both with the individual worker and with trustees locally than at present – precisely the type of proposals that the opposition has now put together. Then it's worth remembering that these are not threats to the Norwegian model. The fact that you have a flexible and safe working life is the very basis for the Norwegian model. What, on the other hand, can be a threat is if reality and employment change without the law following. There is then a situation where the letter of the law may be strict, but where the real protection for workers out there is very small because the law is perceived in practice as a guide or is not possible to comply with many jobs and businesses. That's why I think Minister of Health Jonas Gahr Støre had a pretty good record on the social media Twitter when he was confronted with the hospital Ahus had 9,099 violations of the work environment law in the first four months of the year. Then tweeted Jonas Gahr Støre, I quote freely after the memory: Not well. A problem, not only with practice, but also with the law? I would like to see this kind of open approach put together by the current government parties, because then we could actually have a constructive dialogue – which also involves the social partners – on how to achieve a better and more flexible working life that continues to provide workers with security. There are many good proposals from the Left that are being made today. A lot of people agree with the right. The direction is the entire opposition agrees. We therefore refer to the work of the Employment Communication, where the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party gathered on a number of considerations about Norwegian working life, including the need to ensure basic security, while having some decorations and liberalisation. There are also a few proposals on which the Right disagree, which make it difficult for us to vote on the proposals as a whole, i.e. the proposals as a package. Let me just briefly mention two. We're sceptical about whether it's going to be better for temporary employees if you cut the limit when they're going to get fixed employment, from four to two years, simply because it can mean that more people are moving out faster, rather than getting a fixed position. We are also very sceptical about depriving the social partners of the opportunity to derogate from the working time regulations, i.e. getting trade unions with the right to set up, because in the worst cases we will risk paralysing large parts of, for example. Norwegian oil industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4207	To the representative's question as to whether there is an opportunity to put forward proposals, which then come to vote: it is contrary to Storting's Rules of Procedure to do so. But, of course, Stortinget has the opportunity to approve the fact that such a proposal comes to voting. It assumes that neither the President nor one-fifth of the Grand Duchy opposes it. It is, of course, because the other Storing must have the opportunity to consider a proposal that is being submitted. The proposals from the Left, which are likely to come back to later, have been submitted within the time limit. Everything's all right here. The President will propose that this question be considered when you come to voting. Anyone who then presides will probably say that the proposal has been submitted too late, but the President will not object to the alternative voting between the proposal and ‘not accepted’. And then you see what they say in the hall, they're the ones that ultimately decide the voting. The President hopes this is an acceptable way to do it. That's what the president would think, because the alternative is that the president is already saying no. You're going to go this way in order to treat this insolence in an experimentally tidy way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4216	I would first like to say that the Christian People's Party follows the Progress Party and the Right, by wanting to attach this protocol, if possible. The left here promotes a comprehensive document. Like others from the opposition parties who have had the word – at least right – neither will the Christian People's Party be able to support all the proposals. But we refer to the position of the employment message, where it turns out that a lot here we will be able to go a little bit along the way. The Christian People's Party believes that if the Labour Environment Act is to be amended on some points, cooperation with the social partners is important. I would like to comment on a few proposals that we think are exciting, but which we will still not be able to support as they exist. The left points to some interesting aspects that apply, including: night work as defined today means that many jobs are ‘illegal’. This proposal will not be able to support the Christian People's Party without any further support. This is because tariff rights for night work and night allowances for workers working at night, defined within the current framework, must first find their solution. Another proposal that may be mentioned is proposal No. 8 on Sunday work. One of the reasons given by the proposers is that students in the summer will want to work more weekends than is permitted today. I think it's a good argument from the Left, in relation to students who can work intensively during the summer holidays. But instead of opening up a general liberalisation of this, it could be solved by a careful change through an exception just for this group. Just Sunday work has been hotly debated in some of the media in these days, related to specialist health services and the lack of health professionals, especially specialist nurses. Most people know that health professionals who have to work on a tour – morning, evening, night, Sundays, holidays – have a demanding working life. That Ahus lacks nurses is not new. The crew project there is anything but successful, we know from previous debates in this room. They struggle to get enough staff both day, night and weekend, and the holes in the tours are many. The fact that the State as an employer is going to solve this by imposing on a female-dominated profession an additional inconvenient working time, with involuntary Sunday work, I ask questions. Most other occupational groups that have to work on Sundays have a standard for weekend work every three Sundays. But perhaps even more important: they have completely different weekend supplements than the specialist health services provide. If they have to work more than every three Sundays, there are supplements that health workers can only dream of. You don't even have to go outside the Specter area to document this. In the comments from the government parties to the proposals from the Left, much is said about the strong and trust-based cooperation between the employee side and the employer side of Norwegian working life. The Council of State also refers to the important cooperation of the parties locally and nationally as a basic plank in the Norwegian social model. Government parties also say about the proposal for Sunday work that ‘the ban on Sunday work is primarily justified on the grounds of the social and welfare needs of workers’. Then it must be even more relevant not to impose more Sunday work on those who, after all, have to work many Sundays and holidays in a year. The Christian People's Party believes that working life must also be seen in the context of family life. Then there are limits to the amount of uncomfortable working time that should be imposed on each employee without their own wish. At the same time, as the head of the nurses points out in today's business, someone who will be able to volunteer for more weekend work, is given better financial clearance. It was supposed to be missing that these weren't going to be counted out like other groups. But the government employers' organisation Specter will not negotiate this. I saw the opportunity to deal with this matter and I do want to ask: What does the Minister of Labour think about this, believe – when you sit down and talk about Sunday work, and that this is not healthy for many?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4243	The left wants strong trade unions, but we want above all a work environment law that is so strong and clear that it also protects those who are not trade union. There are 600,000 jobs today that are not subject to professional organisation. I think it's important to fight for them too. It's important that we have labour rights that apply to everyone. Very many of them work in very small companies – there is one or two employees. I believe that they too should have the right to a decent working life. It is important that both inside and outside people feel that they have a decent and fair working life. I don't think it's right that it's just those who are willing to sponsor certain parties, who are going to have certain rights in the world of work. You have to have decent solutions for absolutely everyone. The left was the first party to call for a Labour Peace Act. We've been champions to get a regulated and good labour market, with opportunities for everyone in all areas. We have made twelve proposals today because none of them have been included in the committee. I understand that some of the big parties think it's very busy in the interview, but it happens that we're able to hang out with the others like that, sail if we might not have approximated the same resources as the other party groups. Firstly, our proposals are that working time arrangements should not lead to more work being done, but have the possibility of greater flexibility. We also have a great fight against temporary employment. We notice that the government parties talk a lot about that they are against temporary employment. But the tightening up of temporary employment, as the Left proposes here today, shows that it's just talk – it's really not a real desire to fight it. It's something that really amazes me. Is there one concept in the Working Environment Act that is very unclear, and all of which – absolutely all – trade unions that I have talked to have said that they want a clarification of, is the term ‘independent position’. Why the government refuses to define what the term ‘independent position’ implies, why they refuse to do what all of our trade unions ask for, and why the government parties today vote against proposal No. 6, I don't get it. The second thing I'm disappointed with: some of these things we've fought with some of the other opposition parties about. For example, I have experienced standing side by side with the Progress Party in the fight for alerts. The Progress Party today is voting against both proposal No. 9 and No 10, which is about strengthening the statutory rights of alerts and a warning unit in the Labour Inspectorate. Even in the last few weeks — in view of warnings from the Ministry of Defence — these two decisions have shown that they are important to get through in the United Kingdom. The IA agreement says that is a success. There are a couple of scientists who have put some question mark on it, but I think everyone in this room has said that the IA agreement is a success. That the IA agreement should not apply to anyone other than those who has an agreement through the unions, I believe that I am unfair, and I believe that it helps to weaken the fight we are fighting to reduce sick leave in Norwegian working life. If we believe in the instrument, why should we say that 600 000 people are not allowed to use it? We also want to strengthen the protection of those who are outlawed, which we believe should have legal rights. So until the vote, as I see it, is strange. I have to say it is very tempting to demand separate voting on all twelve proposals when it is repeated here that you are against voting for the Left's proposal as a package. I have no wish for us to stay up tonight, but if the argument against voting for the twelve proposals of the Left is that they are promoted as a package, then they are not promoted as a package. I am promoting them as twelve proposals, and it may be that the Left will require separate voting on each proposal, because then people will have to decide on each proposal and not say that they are against it as a package.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4266	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has at least taken up the suggestions she referred to. The method of voting is to come back.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4269	When I hear the leader of the Left, it is clear that she is indignant about the treatment proposals get. We cannot take particular account of that on the government side. It is quite special that the leader of the Left goes to such strong – what to say – characteristics of the government parties as the government parties are lukewarm in their efforts to combat temporary employment. It's pretty much wrong. What distinguishes government parties in terms of employment policy, whether small or large enterprises, whether they are maritime workers or others, are safe, regular jobs with income that you can live on, and that you should try to organise working life essentially in such a way that you can work during the day and avoid Sunday work. There are some basic simple principles that underlie. I have not understood all of these proposals from the Left, other than that what is called cautious change, challenges a lot of what is the central law, which is to ensure these principles. Social security is crucial to the income and well-being of people. Work life is crucial to ensuring economic homogeneity between people, and the Working Environment Act is central to ensuring this. What we are experiencing today is that the Working Environment Act and the labour immigration we have in a very large way expose both the culture of working life and our legislation to pressure towards a tougher working life. This applies much more than to trade-organised people, in general to all those in the world of work. We can't see it like this on the part of the Center Party or the government, that we had to change the working life so that the majority of workers and businesses would be served with a weaker code and less emphasis on collective solutions. It is central for us to ensure the work environment legislation we have, not only in text, but also in practice, because it balances very good business development and job creation with security for those concerned. What the government is doing in terms of working against social dumping is then affordable, given the situation we're up against. The left-hand side is that one should have greater opportunities for exceptions to the general working time rules and that one should also be able to agree to an exemption with the individual. It will, in our opinion, be a direction that will, in consequence, easily lead to a tougher and more brutal working life. As I said, this is about to start liberalizing when it comes to night work and Sunday work, in our opinion, there is no progress; there is a decline. We should fend for one to try to avoid night work and Sunday work as far as possible. What's special about the matter is that the left has presented twelve proposals. The opposition has not commented on any of the twelve proposals. It's not because you've been busy, it's because the opposition didn't want to clarify where you're going. It's just from the opposition's side a general, short comment where one says: ‘These members therefore wish to make careful changes to the current work environment law.’ So we're not going to get what kind of a common point of view the parties stand for. It might be interesting to see if the representative from the left wants us to get a vote on each point. After all, the opposition parties want to make clear which proposals they are to whom they are to be followed and which they do not want.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4285	Norwegian working life is characterised by high well-being and a good working environment for the vast majority of workers. There are several reasons for this, not least because we have some regulations that ensure that employees have participation and participation, that there is employment protection that prevents any dismissal, and working time rules that provide a good opportunity for a balance between work and leisure. These are values I want us to take care of. There are several proposals that have been put forward here today. One is to open up several temporary jobs. This is a disagreement dating back to 2005. One of the first things we did when we took the government offices was to reverse the changes that the Bondevik government had made when it came to opening up several temporary jobs. In the big debate that was then, the new government got its passport prescribed by the opposition, who said that if you did not open up more temporary jobs, this was going to hit young people and immigrants with full force. Sweden chose the second solution, they went for several temporary jobs, and it is obvious what has been the difference in youth unemployment in Sweden and Norway. We have a good working life in Norway. I believe that more use of temporary employment does not open the door to more people, but on the contrary, more people are out of work. The second thing that is being discussed here today is exceptions to the working time rules. It is then important to say that there are far more agreements than ever to have more flexible working time arrangements. It is also understood by employers, which is why 1 300 agreements have been concluded with central employee organisations with quite substantial changes. However – and it is a big but – there is nothing that the employer can impose, and there is a safety valve in the system that ensures that the central organisation can say no. The vast majority of exceptions go through — nine out of ten. I think this is very important. Norwegian workers work more flexibly than ever, but the strength ratio should not be such that the employer says that we should agree this on a two-man basis at the chamber. I also disagree with the rapporteurs. In addition, the Labour Inspectorate may grant exemptions in a number of areas. There is a widespread misunderstanding that the possibility of agreeing exemptions locally only applies to those with collective agreements and many employees. On the contrary, only two more employees are required to have a collective bargaining agreement in order to negotiate such an agreement. I think that gives a very good room for flexibility in today's system. I want to say that in the case of the Working Environment Act, it is not that we are opposed to any change in it. On the contrary, just a few weeks ago, the government applied for changes to the person who guaranteed part-time employees greater rights in major job breaks. These were changes that the opposition voted against. I would also ask the Right to document which of the proposals advocated by the Right, which are similar to what the Labour Party has previously proposed. We're talking about a lot of agreement on a part of Norwegian working life. At the same time, the Right Torbjørn Røe Isaksen keeps a very clarifying post. He says that the Right agrees with the main direction of the Left's proposal, and thus underlines what the government has been saying all along, that this is more about different directions than about direction choices. I believe that the embellishments proposed here by the Left will lead to a tougher working life, where employers will gain more power at the expense of employees. It's a direction I don't want.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4298	There is a need for some comments. I would first like to make it clear that the Working Environment Act is a protection law. And the proposals that have been put forward weaken protection. That's the problem. For example, when you have: provide for more temporary employment – because that is what the proposal is about, a general opening for it – it is clear that there will be more temporary employment there. The requirements of today's law that you can't keep up, make the temporary employee also get a regular job. It's important. Several have called for more inclusion in working life for more people. Yes, then it is very important that we have good regulations and a strong trade union movement that can enforce these rules on behalf of the employees. The rules in the Working Environment Act apply to all. Some of the dispensations to go beyond this and make it more flexible have been allocated to a community, so that the individual should not be left alone. It is extremely important, because it goes all the way to the core of what this is all about: a balance of power also in the important tripartite cooperation that everyone – at least most – seems to be a great strength. It is fully possible to comply with this legislation and to obtain exemptions, to which the Council of State was careful to refer in its statement. It is therefore fully possible, but too few do so – including public employers. Is this really important dividing lines, or is it just a little bit of careful decoration? I have gone through how the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party have voted in the last few years in many labour matters. There's a very big difference between what today's government parties stand for, and what the opposition stands for. It's about a lot of social dumping measures, and it's one of the things that would really tear away the foundation of an organized and tidy and good working life for everyone. But there are also other issues related to well-being — such as cardboard, breast-free, equal treatment of temporary workers and a wide range of proposals — which the opposition calls embellishment, but which would in reality make the relationship of power between the employee and the employer crooked, as the Council of State said. The employee would be in a weaker position because it is allowed to eliminate the need to have a trade union in his back in order to negotiate solutions in the workplace.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4309	With regard to the proposals that Mrs Skei Grande has made on behalf of the Left - and which she is asking for a point-by-point vote on - the Progress Party will indicate that we support the proposal No. 9, 10, 11 and 12 - if there's such a vote. We have been working together and promoting joint proposals on this matter in the past. It can also be said that the Progress Party has been involved in some of the other proposals in the past. But the Progress Party has been clear about the employment message. We have said that we want to set up a labour market commission that can look at the whole of work – through tripartite cooperation – to draw up the good boundaries within a secure framework to create the flexibility of the future. In my first speech, I gave the reasons why we do not support the other proposals that the Left is promoting, but I support the proposals No. 9, 10, 11 and 12, if it's added to separate voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4314	Several have not asked for the word.... It's about asking for posts while an intervention is going on, because then the president doesn't have to cancel the debate too early.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4319	I'd probably drawn myself to this, but it probably takes a few seconds to get here. I have at least received confirmation that I had signed up. I want to comment on some things. One is tripartite cooperation, for which we in the left are very much in favour. If you go to the history books, you can see that it was the Left State that established just the tripartite cooperation. At the time, the Labour Party had a very conflicted line with regard to the labour market. The Council of States can verify that in its history books. The right-hand side also had a very different line. Strong cooperation is of course important, and it is important to have strong trade unions. There are a lot of people working in small jobs with two and three employees. They're working to keep their business alive. They have a large community with the boss, who is in the same job as them, to achieve the goals they have. I do not want the Working Environment Act to be undermined by being diluted in such a way that it is ultimately not respected. That's why it's important to have a law that's in progress. Hearing the government parties argue hard against temporary employment and then voting against our proposal to thank people for how long they can be temporarily employed is amazing to me. Not wanting to put that ceiling in the Civil Service Act means that those rights are not so important if you work in the State. It's in the country the problem is, it's in the country people experience having hugely long temporary jobs that go beyond their ability to plan their lives, to buy an apartment, to establish a family – there are challenges in terms of temporaryity in Norway today. If you are concerned that you should be less temporary, at least the government parties can vote in favour of that proposal, because it would really have helped many young people today, in professions such as journalists, in research and higher education, in all those areas. I would like to ask for separate voting on the proposals we have made, because I believe that in this Chamber all parties' proposals should be taken seriously – including those parties that have great capacity to work out amendments. Then people get to vote for what they're for, and against what they're against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4332	In the case of temporary employment in the country, this has actually fallen below this government. That's the first remark. The second is that the representative Skei Grande should probably go home and check in his history books on the main agreement, which is the basis for the calmness of Norwegian working life. It was established in 1935, and it was a labor party government. Later, other governments have ended up about it. It has been part of the main agreement that all the parties in Norway have concluded, but it came in 1935. This should be better addressed by the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4337	The President shall not seek clarification. So we're talking about two things – the main agreement and tripartite cooperation. Perhaps the debate can end with that. Obviously, it can. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4355	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4364	It's worth remembering again why we got a pension settlement. Our pay as you go system is not really funded by savings, but are rights you have earned, paid by the generation that works today. The relationship between the commitments of this system and what the Norwegian economy and society and the welfare state could bear in the future was in the process of being distorted. The alternatives faced were either to create a responsible pension reform, or to imagine a future situation in which public expenditure had to be drastically re-prioritized, increased taxes or other ways of making money. Instead, a large and broad majority of the population — all including the Progress Party — chose to negotiate with a new pension scheme. In any public system there are some elements that will be unpopular. But it's worth remembering two very important things. Firstly, Norwegian pensioners – no matter how you turn it around and turn it around – will have strong purchasing power growth in the years to come. In other words, Norwegian pensioners will get better advice. The second is that many of the major changes in the pension reform take place first for future generations. Among other things, in order to take a randomly chosen year, the 1978 generation, some of which may belong in the hall, for example. Because of the lifestyle adjustment, you have to stay longer in work in order to be able to pay the same as you can today, if you leave earlier. With regard to the so-called curtailment of the guarantee pension in Social Security for spouses, it's really turning the case a little bit on the head. The reason for this abbreviation is not that it is considered an independent point that spouses or cohabitants should have less. Rather, it is believed that there is an independent point that those who are lonely should have more, whether you have lost your spouse or never married. Therefore, it was decided to have a system in which the lone person would get a little extra because housing costs are higher, taxes and charges may work higher, the cost of food, household – all it would be higher for one who has a household alone. Not least, in Norway, very lonely people who have grown up alone, who may have been used to having a safe economy of two, but who are now left alone. Maybe they live in a house, where it once lived two or maybe one family, but where it now only lives one. Then, of course, it would be unreasonable to have a system where you got over 100 pst. pension if you were lonely. That's why the solution to lifting the lonely ones has just been to give them something extra compared to what married and cohabiting get. I believe that the Right opinion and the majority of the Committee believe – all parties except the Advancement Party – that there is a fair system, that it does not go out grossly unfair either, and that there is a system that should thus continue. So the majority of the committee is on what is today's practice and proposes that the proposal of Robert Eriksson and the Progress Party be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4385	This proposal is not about pension reform. Let me make that clear. I have raised the matter several times in Stortinget. This is the last time I try to explain to Stortinget what this is all about – at least from this pulpit in this period – but let me try again. The old pension system, the old population benefit we had before 1 January 2011, was built up with three pillars: basic pension, supplementary pension and special supplement for those who had not worked long enough to earn a pension that was higher than the minimum level. Then it became so that everyone who was married or cohabiting got a curtailment of their basic pension. With the new pension scheme, these rules have been amended. The new pension system is based on two pillars in terms of earnings. It is your pension stock on the one hand that is to be compensated for a guarantee pension stock on the other. The amount of the guarantee pension is determined by the amount of income you have had. For 80 pst. the amount of the pension in respect of income shall be reduced to the amount of the guarantee pension in order to determine the amount of the guarantee pension to be added to the social security. It has also been said in the new system that curtailment based on marital status is still going to happen, but it is going to happen in the guarantee pension stock. And what are the consequences of this? Well, the consequences are that those who have had high incomes avoid curtailment. If you have an income of over 450 000 kroner and are married or cohabited with someone who has also had income higher than that on average, is 80 pst. of your pension stock higher than the guarantee pension stock. Ergo will not have any abbreviation. It really means that the bus driver married to the cleaner gets a full curtailment in the new system, while the doctor married to the director does not get a curtailment, but has full earnings just because 80 pst. the amount of the retirement pension is higher than the amount of the pension guarantee. Then I find it a little strange – and there I disagree with the case rapporteur – to hear the argument that the background to the pension agreement was that we had to have sustainability. We had to save money. The Norwegian economy could not carry that pension scheme on. Then it becomes strange to me that the same majority believe that we do not have the strength to remove the abbreviation for those with low incomes, while we have the strength to remove the abbreviation for those with high incomes. And the argument, which has been used in the past, that it's cheaper to live together than one alone, falls into the new system. Can the majority then explain to me why it is cheaper to live together for the director and doctor on the west edge of Oslo than for the cleaner and bus driver on the east edge of Oslo? The former omits the abbreviation, the latter gets it. So that argument also falls completely away. I believe that this is a solid, unintended effect in the new pension system that we should be able to change. I don't understand – I can't understand – that it's good, social redistribution to reduce the pension to married people or those living together with low incomes and remove it for those with high incomes. It becomes completely incomprehensible to me. Finally, something that might seem even more pointless. See that Olga, who is a widow of 75 years, has Petra in 80 years, who is also widowed and deeply nurturing. If Olga finds out that she goes to Petra and cares for her, they have the same residence address. Then both of them will have a curtailment in the pension scheme. Where's the logic going? It is appropriate to better combine and eliminate these unintended effects. It cannot be intended to be that way, and on that basis I would like to take up the proposals of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4411	The representative has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4414	It was a little unclear to me about the representative Robert Eriksson saying that he was not talking about the pension agreement, because this is very much about that. What is the basis for the new pension scheme is that everyone should have a guaranteed pension – a guarantee pension that you have regardless of how much you have worked. And the second part of the pension depends on how much you've worked. That's exactly why the system is set up like that, that's the guarantee pension you have, where there's a curtailment in relation to what your spouse has, while what you've earned yourself, there shouldn't be a curtailment. This is to build around the workline of the new pension system. And the reason why the minimum guarantee is differentiated according to marital status is that two people living together can share on a number of expenses, which lonely must cover alone. The OECD has estimated that two people living together have about 1.7 times the cost of living alone, under other similar conditions. In other words, married and cohabiting pensioners will not need 2 times the income of a minimum pensioner to ensure the same standard of living. And it's unclear to me whether the Progress Party believes that there should be a difference in terms of pensioners living together, and pensioners who are lonely. And if you don't think it's going to be a difference, it's going to be a big disadvantage for those who are lonely pensioners. For they have higher housing costs, they have higher costs, and I don't think it's unreasonable that the pension system is just aiming to balance differences. Today, the basic pension of the population is provided regardless of whether pension points have been earned, while the supplementary pension is calculated on the basis of the individual’s earnings. And the basic pension for married and cohabiting pensioners is now 85 pst. of the basic amount, while the equivalent for lone amounts to 100 pst. Basic pension, together with special supplements or pension supplements, constitutes the basic economic security of the current pension scheme. In the new pension system of the population, the basic insurance is continued in the form of a guarantee pension. A guarantee pension is curtailed against earned income pension; it is granted only to persons with a low or no self-employment benefit. So if the cleaning woman has worked her whole life, I can't see that she will automatically fall into the group that Robert Eriksson is now preparing for. In the case of a guarantee pension, differences shall continue to be made according to marital status. That is to say, lonely, and also new people's, will have a higher minimum security than the married and cohabiting will have. The continuation of a somewhat better safety net for lonely is part of the broad pension agreement. I think it is reasonable for the State to take account of the individual's needs and real differences in cost levels between single and married pensioners when determining the minimum level of the age pension of the population. There is no doubt that two people living together can share a number of expenditures, which are lonely.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4425	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4428	I note that the Council of State combines the new system of performance rules with that of adjustment of the performance rules in the form of payments relating to the curtailment system. It has become, unfortunately, a more complicated and difficult system than what we've had before, and it requires its husband to be able to hang on to the turns – I'm going to be the first to admit it. But: I also record that the Council of State once again says that it is cheaper to live two together than one alone. We can agree on that; but this is not about the new pension scheme. Can the Council of State explain to me simply: Why does the Council of State think it is right that all those who have had an average wage below NOK 420 000 should have a curtailment if they are married or cohabited, while those who have had an average wage above this should avoid the curtailment? Why is it cheaper for those with low wages to live together than it is for those who have had high wages?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4435	The answer is simply: Guarantee pension is paid regardless of how much you have earned. And in that guarantee pension, I don't think it's unreasonable that the state looks at who needs the most money – and it's the lonely ones because they have higher costs. And that is what is the basis for this pension agreement, to ensure a better distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4440	I want to ask the question again, in a slightly different way, because the answer I received was not an answer to the question. Why does the Council of State think that there is a good redistribution policy — a fair and social redistribution — to say that those who have had high incomes through their professional lives, and who are married/partners, should avoid shortening, while those who have had low incomes should be curtailed? Why is there a fair redistribution, which is important if the new pension reform is to be implemented? And that's how to understand: why do we have sustainability in the Norwegian economy to remove the abbreviation for those with the highest income, while we don't have the sustainability to remove the abbreviation for those with the lowest income? Can the Council of State explain to me what is the logic of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4445	I've responded to this. A guarantee pension is paid regardless of how much you have earned. And that's why it's set up so that it'll depend on what expenses you have either as a lonely person or as a roommate. With regard to the second part of the pension scheme, which is based on what you have earned, which will include some other groups, I don't think it's unreasonable that it depends on how much you have worked. But it is still unclear to me what the Progress Party means. Do you need other systems for those who are lonely compared to those who are married? Those who have made the pension agreement believe that it is reasonable to give those who are unanimous, more.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4453	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4456	First of all, I can answer very briefly what the Progress Party thinks about curtailment for lonely and for non-union. The progress batch will remove the abbreviation anyway. We want to remove the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners. There has been something the Progress Party has been fighting for ever since 1989. In 2003 we actually got a little more justice in the system when we reduced the abbreviation from 25 pst. to 15 pst. This was with the Bondevik II government, when we had budgetary cooperation with them. So it's actually wrong when the Council of State says that you get a guarantee pension regardless of what you've earned. That's wrong. What you get is an income pension. The number of years you work, you can multiply your income by 18.1 pst. ; it's your retirement pension stock. 80 pst. it will then be curtailed against the guarantee pension stock. If you earn between NOK 420,000 and NOK 450,000, you will receive 80 pst. of your retirement pension stock is larger than the pension guarantee stock. Then you will not have a guarantee pension portfolio, and therefore no curtailment. It should really be easy to understand, so it is also wrong to say that you are receiving a guarantee pension regardless of income – because you are not. Those with high income only have pension stocks, not guarantee pension stocks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4463	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4477	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4486	We are now in the interview of a four-year period and we are going to deal with several proposals for changes in Nav. Some of the proposals have been mentioned or discussed in previous cases, and several of the proposals are large and demanding. It's a little alarming, I think, to get so many, big reorganization proposals on the table right before the Stortinget is going to end its meeting session. However, it is important to be concerned with Nav, both in terms of organisation and content. Nav is the core of our welfare state. It is the organization we have a relationship to close from birth to death, through most phases of life. The Nav reform was huge and extensive. It hasn't been painless. Staff were given a demanding task by the political majority on Stortinget. In addition, the financial crisis came. New tasks were not connected to a computer system that could handle this. That employees made a formidable effort in this time, is raised above any doubt, and I think I will say so that they have carried the reform on their shoulders, in storm and stillness. Nav is starting to find its shape – not infallibly, neither system nor employees, but it's doing better. The improvement of results is noticeable in several areas and user satisfaction is increasing. ICT modernisation is well under way, and the phase-in of new systems is now planned in the future. But everything is not in place. There's room for improvement, especially when it comes to getting people to work. There is a need for stronger and closer follow-up. Above all, there is a need for safe economic governance of Norway. The Labour Party chooses value creation rather than tax cuts, redistribution and social cohesion rather than giving more to those who have the most. The Labour Party sees the importance of good and predictable pay and employment conditions for employees, through strong tripartite cooperation, rather than using wages as a competitive tool. The government increases the activity obligation to receive transitional benefits rather than cut them. The government is betting on a workline for all, and not increasing the cash support level for anyone. This is largely related to the quality of Nav users' lives. Nav is about to become a learning organisation, and it's about to be. Important steps have been taken to improve the efficiency and quality of treatment and follow-up in Nav, and I want to say that the Committee has been involved in and a driver for maintaining the very high quality of the diversity of users that Nav has. Several proposals are on the table in this matter. The Government fraction of the Committee is clear that, at the very end of a growing period, this is not the time for major reorganisations. I refer to the majority's comments in the vote relating to the various proposals and the majority's position in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4507	Let me first comment on what the rapporteur concluded with, that it is not time, at the end of a period, to make such comprehensive proposals. I remind you that the government has put forward a number of propositions right in front of 1 May, and I expect the representatives' proposals to have their time, just as the propositions do. So to the point: the Nav reform is one of the largest and perhaps most important reforms we have implemented in Norway in recent times to realize the dream of getting more included in the labour market, but also to be the catalyst and engine of labour and welfare policy. It was said when it came, that it would lead to more people in work and fewer in social security, it would be easier for users to adapt their needs to a comprehensive and efficient labour and welfare management. It was the three pillars that were the great vision – the goal – and the whole basis for the reform. Now we know that the Frischsenter is carrying out an evaluation, and we have already seen some of the preliminary evaluations, which show that they have not been able to measure any of the three. The Progress Party proposes a number of proposals that are said to be large and comprehensive. Firstly, the Progress Party has been working on this for a long time. We have done a thorough job and have had close dialogue with the employees’ professional organisations – NTL and Parat – have received written input and met with them on how to reorganise and how it should work better. We have had similar rounds with the user organisations, both the FFO and the Disabled Association, and we have also had meetings with the Directorate to get us knowledge and understanding of what this is all about. We believe that we have done a thorough and good job in an important area that people depend every day on working better. Then it becomes a little bit of comfort that every time we take up concrete suggestions to solve problems that arise in Nav, you just lean back and say that things are going better now. This has been said from the position every single time, and I have been following the Nav reform since 2005 – every single time you have said the same thing. If you think you should be able to get more into the labour market and less bureaucracy, I think it is absolutely essential to have a simplified and more responsible partnership. It's a challenge with today's partnership, I think I can all admit it. If you are to be able to do the good things for those who live locally, you are dependent on having strong, powerful Nav offices locally that can make the good judgements, make decisions and follow the individual in the right way. That's not how it works today. I believe that this also does not work well enough for the users. One of my things, which I've been fighting for in almost eight years, is getting a Nav agent in place. I was very happy when I saw the new government platform, where a Nav agent was to be evaluated. Nothing has yet been done in that area. Just because I take the user seriously and think it's important, I want a hub that works better for the user. Then I don't think it's obvious that you take the signals that come from employees, user organisations and individuals seriously and try to do something about it. I believe as a politician that when I see that I have been with and made decisions, and that those decisions do not lead with regard to the objective, it is my task as a people elected to correct the course and take new steps to achieve the goal. That is what the Progress Party has tried to do by promoting this proposal. To conclude, when I hear the rapporteur say that it is alarming that many of the proposals have not been consulted, it is not possible to send a representative proposal to the hearing. But I record that when administrative units were set up, it got through in the budgetary process. Was there so much more thorough treatment? Rather, on the contrary, there was nothing in Stortingen’s mandate to appoint administrative units. It was just something that was done in a budgetary procedure. Therefore, I would have liked this proposal to have been dealt with more seriously than it has been given, because it is an important proposal to get Nav cut on the right track, to achieve a better result and not least to help more users get into work rather than social security. With that, I take up the proposals that the Progress Party has made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4530	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4533	The alarming thing about this debate is not that the Progress Party makes a proposal at the end of the session, but that after eight years of red-green government, so few have been arrested. It shows with all possible clarity the need for some new ideas and better solutions, including in the area of welfare. Once the proposals have been reviewed by the Right, there are many proposals we support. Among other things, we have agree on the need for a Nav ombudsman – not to get an ombudsman by model from e.g. The child ombudsman, but according to the model of the patient ombudsman — to be a kind of dialogue facilitator, to use a way of expression that might come from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, between the user and the system. Many cases might have been avoided if you had had a slightly better dialogue – you could sit down with a third party and solve it that way instead of making it a long-winded complaint process. We have asked several questions in this room about how Nav is controlled. Nav, in our opinion, is over-administrative and bureaucratic and governed by what you might call the worst of two worlds, neoliberalism and social democracy. In this way, a combination of target management and detail management has also been poorly served by many public agencies. There is also no doubt that the interaction between Nav and the action providers is not good enough. It's too big in the way you organize it, the results aren't good enough, and again we see that the government has been sitting this year after year, without addressing the issues. We are not in favour of some of the suggestions made by our friends in the Progress Party. There are known disagreements. We are e.g. not to be accompanied by a State-standard rate of social assistance. We believe that it is a point that municipalities still have a ownership of social policy. Some of the suggestions we're a little bit measured for, and I want to spend the last two minutes explaining it. This is not because we know that we are against them, but simply because one of the problems with Nav has been that they have been forced – the politicians have adopted – a very large and ambitious reform – or to be absolutely accurate: the majority of the population decided, against the will of the Bondevik government, to carry out a large and very comprehensive Nav reform in a certain way, without having any idea of how it would be carried out in order to achieve its objectives in practice. From the Right we are skeptical to whether Nav again needs a major and comprehensive reform, simply because reforming and changing so fundamentally creates some disruptions in the system that go beyond the users. This means that when you are about to address the problems in Nav in the next period, it should probably be done by going a little closely to work and addressing one problem area. But then there are many things the Progress Party proposes that we should consider. For example, there is reason to consider whether each municipality has to be required to have a Nav office. We are also more than happy to assess whether Nav's management today is an obstacle to Nav's operations, or whether it works the opposite way. The research reports point in a slightly different direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4557	The Nav reform has been great and important, and there is every reason to discuss it. That is why a very large evaluation has now been launched. I'm one of those people who really looks forward to that evaluation when it comes. I have been part of the Nav reform from the very beginning of the late 1980s, when local attempts were started to improve the functioning of state agencies. We knew it was going to be difficult when the Nav reform came. It is the biggest administrative reform that has been implemented, and that is not all that has been going well – especially because Nav is the meeting place between people in life’s crises and public utilities. Then it's said that you're actually getting help, but it's also about the way you're being met. With the Nav reform was at least the starting point that you were going to meet one door, and it was going to be easier for you. Unfortunately, some users have not experienced it. I think we should admit that. But it may be a little strange to hear the sharp criticism of the Progress Party – because I have some memory about what has happened in this case. I remember the first budgets when Nav was established, where the Progress Party cut heavy sums for the operation of Nav. I would like to see what Nav would have looked like if the Advance Party had been allowed to rule Nav at that time. It would have been the purest disaster. Then Nav is a director. It's a special form of government governance, in which we kind of give away a lot of the governance of the organization – how this is going to happen – but where we, as a magnificence, can intervene by law and do it. The representative of the Red Isaac had a very interesting post, where he philosophers that when you run both target management and detail management at the same time, it can be difficult, and you can get some results that are not good. I guess so. In the first reading of the Nav reform, Stortinget called for, among others, some of the things in these proposals, namely that we should get clearer indicators on how to measure that we have actually done what we need to do in Nav. But it's hard – for what is it to succeed in Nav? If a person comes to you as the starting point that you want a job, and society wants the most to be at work, it's not sure that it's possible. Then it may be that a good goal achievement is that people also get help to have a good life, sail if you can't get to work. Quality indicators on all of this can only be even more of the representative of the Red Isaac warned against: setting up some of these goals and detailed managements, which make you even more enslaved to papers and rules and even less concerned with the meeting with the individual in everyday life, and helping them to get into work. You should have an opening in the rules to be able to meet people in a good way. The first private proposal I made at Stortinget in 1997 was rejected by Stortinget's office. It was called something like it must be allowed to use your head. It was just this matter – the meeting between the individual and the system, and the system that would like to help, but there were some rules in the way that made it impossible. Those rules could have a good reason in themselves, but it's so hard to make rules that make all the events of life. We from SV look forward to this evaluation, because there is no doubt that there is a reason to look at what is now working in Nav – there is a lot that works better – but also whether there is a need to look at how to, for example, may empower local offices more, as agreed in the Committee and in comments. Then there is no secret either – and we have had many discussions about it in Stortinget – that SV wants Nav ombudsman. The government has not agreed on this, but SV believes it is necessary, and that the reason for it is good, just as it is on the patient Ombudsman’s side. For example, in Kristiansand, where you've had an urban representative who's taken some of these things, you've solved a lot of things that have not only helped the individual, but also helped Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4580	Nav's work is incredibly important, while it's very demanding. I must say that what the representative Karin Andersen said now, I will join. Good theoretical education is needed, and not least life experience and work experience are needed among the people who are going to work on this, just to understand the human situation in which those who come to Nav are, and thus make wise decisions. There's been a lot of things done to try to improve it. There is uncertainty about the introduction of administrative units is as positive as one might wish, there are many overlapping schemes, and that makes those working on it have an extra demanding job. I would like to say that for you to get a better hub, it is probably the biggest challenge to get clear political principles for dealing with matters – things that are, in other words, people, who are so different – and then the principles must be such that you have a great opportunity to exercise judgment. From my experience with Nav, I have to say that there are several older case handlers in Nav who exercise practical judgement, which I must say is very, very exemplary. They have the overview, and they do that one achieves what I see as essential, that one takes responsibility for the people who need help. What Røe Isaksen said about target management and neoliberalism versus detail management and social democracy, i.e. both parts, I think was a good point. For the Central Party, it is central that we have clear political principles practiced by authoritative people who exercise degrees of discretion and who take responsibility for the people involved and do not pass them on. But I would like to stress that working in Nav, with all the life situations you see there, is incredibly demanding. One meets competent, committed case handlers such as is responsible for ensuring youth guarantees, ensuring work for young people in difficult situations, and many of them are in the situation where they have so many people to assist, that it is incredibly difficult to do a good job. Otherwise, I would like to add some comments to proposal No. 5, on the merger of small Nav offices. There are several ways to organise this work, and it has built up natural cooperation between municipalities. There are great opportunities in the framework that govern Nav for a sheep to work together. The point of the local offices is that they should ensure the proximity of the users and that one through that proximity should also have an overview. And I want to say that having an overview of the people who live in the area you're responsible for, is mostly an advantage. It is an advantage in the context of employment services, and it is an advantage in terms of income security. It may well be a weakness that everyone knows everyone, but I must say that it is a far greater weakness that no one knows anyone. So it's central that one here gets a development where one retains the principle that any municipality should be covered by the Nav office, but that one seafarer can also go into cooperation between municipalities, where there is agreement between the municipalities to do so, that is, where it comes naturally up as part of a reasonable further development of what is the evolution of the time. On the part of the Central Party and the Government, we say that one should assume that all municipalities should be covered by the Nav Office, while several municipalities can find cooperation solutions if there is agreement between the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4597	The implementation of the Nav reform, on how labour and welfare management works, has been discussed by Stortinget many times in recent years. There have been interviews, question-time questions, audit hearings and budgetary discussions, and that's good. We need a lively discussion on the design of labour and welfare policy. We also need a discussion about whether the organization works well enough. As I see it, I am pleased that the Progress Party is promoting proposals that they believe will be improvements. It gives us the opportunity to discuss road choices. At the same time, I allow myself to claim that part of the proposals from the Progress Party bear the mark of rematch. It's a shame, because I think we should use this discussion for more than discussing old disagreement. What is characteristic of Norwegian policy and the Norwegian model is that through political struggle and conflict, compromises have been established that have subsequently been agreed upon. I have noticed that the Progress Party says they are strongly critical of the Norwegian model, and it can be stated that the proposals that are now being promoted are not an attempt to build consensus on the compromises that are a total increase, except the Progress Party, joined when the Nav reform was adopted in spring 2005. The Nav reform was, as many in the pulpit have been concerned about today, a comprehensive reform. We can compare with the establishment of popular peace. The news of popular fear came to the Stortinget in 1948, and the population was established in 1967. It took many years of planning and discussion. With regard to the Nav reform, it was promoted in the Communication to the European Council in 2002–03. Propositions came in 2004–2005, and the first Nav office was opened the following year, in October 2006. It was a healthy revolution and a great upheaval. If I'm going to say something about what's the main conclusion about Nav, it's that there's still big challenges, but at least it wasn't better before. I believe it was right to establish the Nav reform, because there was nothing better before, when people had to go from office to office and get no help anywhere. And many were on temporary benefits over a long time. For a large number of reasons, today’s proceedings are within the scope of the requirements of the agency itself. There are many more users, both those with health problems and those who are job seekers, who receive follow-up to get to work. User studies also show a very clear progress. The seat of employment and welfare shall continue to work systematically to improve. At the same time, they need to develop modern ICT solutions and implement an important underpinning reform. These are demanding tasks which are additional to current operations. I cannot comment on all the proposals from the Progress Party in this article, but I would like to make two proposals. It is about the proposal to state Nav offices and the proposal to set up a new public body. In the Nav Office, users with complex assistance needs shall receive a comprehensive follow-up. In the future, therefore, there will be a growing need for closer cooperation between the State and local authorities to facilitate the inclusion and association of vulnerable groups. The Nav reform is young, and it's only been two years since the last Nav office was established. In the development of a new management model, two years are very short. If we were to choose a different model for the Nav offices now, we would have to start a whole new round of reorganisation and uncertainty, rather than letting local cooperation continue to develop. In recent years, a number of reforms have been adopted — the Nav reform, the reform of labour and tools, the pension reform, the reform of the disability — reforms adopted following thorough investigations and anchored in a comprehensive strategy for job-correction of benefits and better follow-up of users with complex needs. I believe that we will over time see results in line with the overall objectives of the Nav reform and that it is now important to continue to work systematically on the strategies and actions underlying the reform process. A separate public investigation with the mandate outlined here by the proposers will not, in my opinion, contribute to the speed and security of the demanding implementation of the reform and adopted measures to strengthen the working line and management.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4620	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4624	I noticed that the Council of State said it was not better before, but I find that it is not better now either. Then it was said about the Nav reform that you had to go one door in, and then you would get help with your need. To me it seems more like one has got one door into a place full of new doors, and then one never comes out again. It is one of the major challenges that has now been faced with the fragmented organisation. My questions to the Council of State are: Does the Council not see certain challenges with today's partnership model? After all, the Progress Party does not propose any reorganisation here to create uncertainty. This is precisely what both employees and users point out that they would have liked a change in. What is the uncertainty about following the changes that even employees point to will be important in order to improve their job? Does the Council of State not see these challenges with today's partnership?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4631	I believe that the division of labour between the state and local authorities is facing some challenges, but that it is mainly good. This is because the social assistance element is closely linked to the municipality’s other services — housing, child protection, health care. And that's very important. If you change this, there will be new coordination problems. That's why I want to warn you not to change that model. With regard to the performance of the Nav reform, we know that the proportion of disabled people is falling, the share of health-related benefits is falling, the share of social assistance is falling, among others. Because we've had a qualification program. I think we see good signs of improvement, but there are also great improvements we can make in the time that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4638	One of the most long-term and major challenges facing the government – which must be credited for finally being on the agenda – is the ICT promise in Nav, which is important for more efficient and comprehensive Nav management and for helping more users. But as long as one chooses to maintain the two-part partnership that we have today – a partnership between state and local authorities – why has not the Council of State arranged for the ICT promise to include and include the municipal part of Nav? As far as I know and according to the feedback I have received, it is quite clear that the ICT promise that is now taking place is under state control, where you do not connect to the municipalities. It then becomes a little incomprehensible to me as regards the partnership strength that the Council of State is calling for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4645	We want to carry out a major ICT modernisation that allows people to get information about where their case is and how long it is until they can get answers. It has already been completed in the field of pensions, and a lot of people are inside Nav's pages and get good information about their pensions. I think it's quite natural that we're doing this at state level now. Social assistance is designed in a completely different way, based on the individual’s needs, less regulated and more adapted to the individual. I think it is appropriate to have good ICT solutions on what is the state part of Nav's administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4652	One of the main arguments has been that we need to have this partnership because the municipalities have an important responsibility and are an important part in terms of different social services. It's not just about social assistance. It is free up to the municipalities, and many municipalities have also implemented other things. The councils really don't answer my question. When you want that kind of partnership, you start a big and comprehensive ICT-lift and you want to see the whole thing, why don't you connect the trailer to the trailer party and think about the ICT-lift towards the municipal sector? That's my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4659	I will not reject for all future that it can be done as well. But the main answer is that the state part of the benefits is far more regulated than it is in the social welfare area. Much more needs need to be adapted to individual needs, so that it is much more important to get them in place in terms of state benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4664	The Council of State is still saying that the proportion of disabled people is falling. First, of course, you have to take the sum of both those on redundancy pay and those on disability pay. If I don't remember completely wrong, that share in year is 10.7 pst. – the same as it was in 2005. So we know that that's approx. 70,000 people today on redundancy pay. When their period goes out – the so-called conversions – they will go over to disability. This government's legacy will be a higher share also on disability benefits. And everyone agrees that the number has gone up. Am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4671	If we look at the share of both work clearance and disability benefits, so-called health-related benefits, the proportion has fallen slightly from 2005 to 2012. That's also what the proportion of miscarriage has done. So it's true that there's some left on redundancy pay, and they'll be clarified in a short time. However, the proportion of health-related benefits has decreased over the period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4678	I want to ask about another thing. If I don't remember faults again, a unanimous Labour and Social Committee has taken a decision asking the government to consider introducing a patient representative scheme in Nav. You didn't tell the government to do that, but you asked the government to evaluate it. You had a positive wording in the form of a note. Then we will hear from the representative Karin Andersen that this has not been agreed by the government. But I can't believe that there's a good enough reason to ignore a comment that all parties in the Labour and Social Committee have been behind, and that has a positive wording about the need for a patient representative in Nav. So my question is very simple: why has there not been any government assessment after eight years of the need for – possibly arrangements for – patients representative in the Nav system?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4687	It is simply because we believe that there is no appropriate use of resources now. We believe that we want to facilitate a right of appeal, that one can change the Nav office if one is not satisfied with the treatment you are receiving. The recruitment of even more people now and the re-examination of applications do not seem to be an appropriate use of resources now. But I'm not saying now that we're rejecting this forever.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4692	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4698	I just have a couple of things for the last line up. I certainly believe that the government has notified the Stortinget that they will not introduce a Nav ombudsman now. In that way, the comment was signed out without the result I wanted. So for the discussion about disability benefits and redundancy benefits. It is true that there are more people on redundancy pay now, but it is because the previous government, i.e. the civil government, established a waiting room called ‘time-limited unpaid pay’. In that waiting room you should sit and wait a few years, to see if you got better or if something happened. But you had no right to get help from Nav to get into work when you sat in that waiting room. SV voted against it when the Bondevik government introduced it, precisely for that reason. For the same reason, we combined rehabilitation money, return money and time-limited unpaid pay into one social welfare scheme. Those who were under it would be able to come to the Nav and get labour-oriented assistance to get into work, so that one would not sit on that waiting room without the right to anything. Then it is a little strange that the Right now goes up and complains that there are more on redundancy money now than there was on rehabilitation money and return money. Yeah, that's just because we made the conscious change. As far as I remember, I think that change was also unanimous in Stortinget, because everyone saw that it was reasonable. But then you don't have to cheat on the numbers and pretend that it somehow proves that there are many more people out of work. It is not right to look at redundancy payments in the same way as disability benefits, because disability benefits are a lasting benefit when it has been established that in the foreseeable future at least one cannot be at work. Work clearance money isn't that. Unemployment benefit is granted precisely because it can be seen that there is an opportunity to get to work, and that therefore you get a benefit when you are either receiving health care, qualification or other measures to get to work. I just needed to say that, because I think it would be wrong to discuss this on the wrong premises.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4711	I will not extend the debate unnecessarily. I'm just going to correct myself, but at the same time it's going to float a little bit of what's right here. Based on the numbers that I have, the proportion of the population is now at 9.5 pst. versus 10.3 pst. In 2005, while the proportion of disability benefits or equivalent benefits before 2010 — there is a rule change here — is in practice the same, i.e. 14.7 pst. in 2005 and 2011. My point is that before boasting of political results, account must be taken of the fact that changes in rules and precisely the kind of shifts or decisions that Karin Andersen spoke about – and which were quite rightly unanimous – also have consequences for people's systems. But there is no impact on the proportion or number of people actually out of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4718	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 21st Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4733	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4742	The proposal that is being promoted in this matter is about a very special group: the deaf blind. These are people with strong challenges. For most of us, it's hard to imagine what this disability means, where one of the senses reinforces the other. This means that without interpreters you have no opportunity to communicate with people around you, and there's almost no way to perceive what's happening where you are, if you don't get it told. At the same time, you have hardly enough opportunity to move out of the door without a companion. We have been able to read in the last year about deaf blind people who feel trapped in their own homes because of this intensification of the legislation. And some of us have been present at a very strong mark in Eidsvoll's place this morning, where 20-30 deaf blind people with their interpreters were present to make the Storting aware of their experiences with the system. It is difficult not to let the impressions I got today in the meetings with the representatives of the group, emotionally color this post. Imagine if someone had to tell me with sign language – whether it was drawn on my back or in my hand – everything that was said around me, everything that happened around me, that people smile at me, that people clapping for me, that someone nodding when I talk, or that something stands in the way of my legs. Imagine if all I can perceive on a blond with my relatively intact senses, had to be told. Then I would really feel what dependence on the services of society could mean. The background to this marker was a regulatory change introduced in the summer of 2012. Call it a ‘presation’, but it is perceived by deaf blind people as a severe restriction on their interpreting services. Whatever you call it, the result is the same: a large proportion of deaf blind people have been isolated, and their quality of life has been greatly reduced. The possibility of being part of society and participating in the same line with the others has been limited. It's a fact. In the Chamber today, we are therefore going to discuss a proposal from the Christian People's Party which aims to rectify this matter and which aims to reverse the change of rules that was made one year ago. The proposal promoted in the suspension shall ensure that deaf blind people are offered a full-fledged offer of interpreters/accompaniments for hobbies and leisure activities, regardless of whether it is to be done jointly with others or alone. It should ensure that the small group of deaf blind people – because there are no more than a few hundred in the whole country – will live a worthy life, a little more in freedom than they experience today. I have registered that it is granted a little over 8 million. additional to the interpreter service in the revised national budget. That's good, and it supports the Right. I hope the interpreters for the deaf blind get what they need from this pot, and it doesn't disappear into extra bureaucracy. At the same time, I record that the department and the directorate take self-criticism for the process that led up to the decision of last year. It's also good, and even better if the processes get better in the future. But it would have been even better if the Stortinge now, when we're at the bottom of a four-year period, could show a little grandeur in this case, and one time in this period you could go together and say, "Yes, for this small group we're going to make a common promise, for this small group, we're going to drop the political game that means never to vote for anything that comes from the opposition – and that's why we're going to vote for this good proposal. Because I am sure we really agree here, and I am sure that if the representatives had voted according to their conscience, they would have realized that a mistake was made, and reversed the tightening that was done last year. I still have faith that we can do this today – together. The opinion of the Committee is active and satisfactory. It's easy to understand, it expresses the will to act. Now let's go together to adopt it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4761	Today we have a proposal for a representative on the right of deaf blind people to interpret/accompaniment in hobbies and leisure activities. In examining the proposal, the Committee has given particular attention to the challenges faced by deaf blind people as a result of double sense loss. It gives this group very special communication challenges. Although activities are not to be carried out in conjunction with others, the need for communication can be crucial. Description of the environment, change of desired activity — you may change your mind — and dissemination of unexpected challenges are examples of communication needs that may arise, regardless of whether you have the activity with others or not. The deaf-blind group in Norway is small and presents special challenges. The background to the proposal for a representative is that a circular on interpreting and accompanying services was amended by the Summer 2012 Labour and Welfare Act. The change came without a prior discussion with the deaf-blind organisations and clarified the legal and legal basis applicable in this area, in particular the division of responsibilities between the State of the interpreters’ service and the local authority’s responsibilities for services. The Committee notes that the Council of State recognises the criticism of deaf-blind organisations for lack of process and involvement. The Committee also notes that the Ministry of Labour and Welfare has asked the Working and Welfare Department for a modest practice of the new guidelines. The organisations of the deaf blind, deaf organisations and interpreter organisations have been invited to a further process on the guidelines. Although the coverage of interpretative tasks in Norway is relatively good, nine out of ten tasks are being solved, there is a particular need for an increase in the number of interpreters and a better use of the resources available to us. It has been particularly difficult to obtain interpreters for short-term assignments, for example: medical sessions or parental meetings. The duration of the mission is not the same as that of the individual. That's why it's important that we find solutions for this. We assume that the process of the organisations concerned is being carried out with good involvement and with sufficient timescales for effective user involvement. That process shall lead to possible solutions. The increase in the area has been from 102 million. SEK in 2009 to SEK 140 million. kr in 2012. Nevertheless, we chose to add another 8.33 million. kr i revised for 2013 for this case. With regard to the change in the circular, it was also clarified that in the event of rejection of the assignment to which interpreters had previously been granted, there would be a dialogue with the municipality to find appropriate solutions. The Employment and Welfare Act was also intended to assist municipalities in training, enabling them to assist deaf-blind people in line with their actual responsibilities. The criteria must be met. And assuming that, we're being taken care of by the department. We are also aware that there are counties that have not implemented the circular, precisely because the interaction and training has not been in place. The basis of public interest for the interpretation service is based on Sections 10 to 6, which deal with daily life. It does not initially include training, sports and hobbies, but it is an exception that still warrants this if there are activities that are so large that they are considered part of daily life. Then there is a social benefit anyway. We expect that this is what has provided the basis for the practice that has been used until the summer of 2012. This may indicate that the practice did not have a sufficient basis in the law and that a change in the circular has to occur as a result of a change in the current legal basis. We believe that it is not right for the Storting now to ask the Working and Welfare Department to change the circular back to a practice that we have found out is not allowed. Then we may have to go through a change in the law that makes the law in line with the practice of Storting. The justification for the red-green fraction’s proposal that this should be annexed to the Protocol today is that this needs to be clarified. That work is already in progress, and we expect that if there is a need for legislative changes, it will be brought back to the Storting in an appropriate form. Therefore, it has been decided to clarify that even if it is outside the law, this should be treated as if it were under the old guidelines. It's going far beyond what the Storting tends to ask a government to do. This matter has been so special that we have chosen to do it anyway. I would like to raise the suggestion that we have raised in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4787	The representative Tove Linnea Brandvik has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4790	First, I would like to pay tribute to the proposers, who make an important proposal – incredibly important for the 350 deaf-blind people we have in Norway, who will operate as optimally as possible every day, which has the same need for freedom, activity and participation as all other people. Therefore, I am a little disappointed when I register the letter of reply from the Council of State and what comes out there, that the Council of State acknowledges the criticism, but has no plans to reverse the main lines of the changes in the legislation that were made in 2012. I am in many ways both stated and somewhat – I am not going to use the tranny term, but at least anger on behalf of the 350 deaf blind people. We all got a close glimpse of the everyday life of Harald Vik, who appeared on several occasions in the NRK – Harald Vik, an elderly, ascending, active gentleman, who is deaf blind, a person who has rode Norway along, has gone out into the world and biked with former biker Dag Otto Lauritzen. And as Dag Otto Lauritzen himself says, one of the things that gave him the most motivation was to see how Harald handled the bike. It inspires me and bites me much more than watching Petter Northug win staftaggul in Holmenkollen and take the question. The performance of Harald Vik surpasses most sports performance. Then I think it is a pity that we in this room – and that makes me angry – should put people like Harald Vik in house arrest. Why shouldn't he have the same opportunity to do activity and exercise and have the same freedom that he's had in the past? Why should it be that there are bureaucrats who are going to decide where to go skiing, and not he himself, whichever is the cheaper, and how to get help out? It wasn't a problem for Harald Vik and many deaf-blind people before, but it's now. He, along with several, was frustrated by the situation in winter, was happy a little later in winter and the entrance to spring, when it was thought that everything had been taken care of, and that things were in order. And then you get a new hit under the belt site because it's not okay. Excuse me, President, but this is driving apes with people. You just don't do that. That also makes me angry. I should have liked for a total expansion to have supported the good proposal that the Christian People's Party is promoting today. I have to say that I am a little surprised by the representative of the Workers' Party, who says that we cannot go back to a practice that is not legal, but that was done in the past. The councils have had plenty of time since this matter came up in the media and really exploded early this winter, to present the necessary legislative changes. You said to sign it out. Those who sit in the department, and the council knew for sure that they needed a bill change, but they didn't do it. It's a clear signal that you don't want to give this group freedom back. Pushing the system in front of you as a reason you can't make changes, I think I'm sorry, and that's sad. It's unworthy that a big deal and the elected people owe it to the system. If there's anyone who can really change the system, change the laws, it's this assembly, and the government and the council should have put forward a billing proposal before 1 May, which they had plenty of time to do. Then this matter could have been out of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4805	If the representative Eriksson had heard what Mr. Tove Linnea Brandvik said, it was precisely that they wanted a change of rules that allowed this to happen, and that they wanted a process that made this work right. That's how I perceived it, and that's how I perceive the comments that the majority are also behind. It also states that it is considered that the new guidelines should be ‘simplified’ and that a process has been set up so that the need for interpreting and accompanying assistance by the deaf is adequately addressed. I think everyone agrees on that, as the rapporteur also said. It's a bad thing. There are several of us who have tried to imagine how you can be so brave, I think, that you actually dare to do things like many of them with accomplices, when we can think about how scared you can be in new situations seas if you have senses help to orient yourself and to communicate with the outside world. It's a fairly large, increased resource in this area over the last few years, and it's very important, because that's what's the basis for there being enough capacity in the system. I would also like to stress that it is important now that we ensure that the appropriations given are actually used, and that we do manage to ensure that these computer systems that I have heard about for several years, which do not communicate with each other between freelance interpreters and the other permanent staff interpreters, are in order, so that we can use the interpreting capacity that lies there. It is extremely important that there is no vacancy while interpreting is empty. In one case, you have also gone in and raised the salaries of freelance interpreters, precisely because they were very low in wages. Obviously, if you're going to be able to recruit people for as important a profession as this is, we also have to look at that part of it and the organization. I just want to underline the things that the representative, Mr. Tove Linnea Brandvik, also underlined, and also the increased allocation that is now being given through the revised national budget. The Committee is unanimous in its view when the budget has now been increased by 8.3 million. kr, that ‘part of this benefits interpreting and accompanying services to deaf blind people. The Committee supports this.’» This should also allow for the practice of this in such a way that it should not be as the representative Eriksson says, that people are now in a way locked in a prison. There are resources in this system that are bigger now than they were before. I think we have to admit that, sail if there are any who have been denied any of the assignments they wanted. I don't think either of us really like that. But we have strengthened the possibilities now through increased appropriations, and we come back to the question of legislative changes, which means that we can get this in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4823	This document 8 by the Christian People's Party is about an incomprehensible matter. It's probably a matter where the government changes a code, with big negative consequences for a small group of people – this time the deaf blind. Many saw the TV broadcast with deaf-blind Harald Vik, who had received a rejection of his application for a deaf interpreter. Afterwards, he got a meeting with big business representatives from the Workers' Party. I met Vik in the hall afterwards, brilliantly because everything was going to be all right. The circular was to be reversed. But the joy did not last long. When my answer to my question to the Council of State came, it was definitely the fact that the new wording of the Constitution remained in place, as the Council of State also confirms in its letter to the Committee. Last week I received an enquiry from a deaf blind who had applied for deaf blind interpretation for a mountain hike and had been rejected. He applies for a deaf-blind interpreter because he needs to feel safe during the trip and to experience the visual and sound impressions that he is blindly missing, and that he can only experience through a deaf-blind interpreter. He has previously been promised this. The purpose of the trip was to maintain your own health — mental, social and physical. He was refused. He has not received information about the municipal authority he is going to contact to get the kind of help he needs. He has also not been able to find the right offer on his own. The Council of State says that the process around the change in the circular was unfortunate and has set up a process in which deaf-blind organisations are invited to participate in a work where the guidelines are reviewed and where they will assess how municipalities can be able to assist. But the municipalities have zero competence to interpret deaf blind people. Therefore, no one has yet received an offer of another person from the municipality with a refusal from Nav, because there is no such person, says one of the deaf-blind organisations. Deaf-blind interpreters are accompanying, describing and interpreting. Description, search and interpretation are not divisible. That's exactly why we have a three-year education in this, in all three areas. That is why deaf blind people must also have deaf - blind interpreters when it comes to leisure time. It also has to do with security and security. There have already been meetings — two, in fact, last week, where deaf-blind organisations were invited. The first meeting of the Ministry was on the use of the fresh money in the revised national budget: 8.3 million. kr. None of the measures are deaf-blind in terms of the need for deaf-blind interpreters for leisure activities — i.e. what this case is about. As one says, now they can write that they've met us and heard us, but it doesn't really affect the use of the money. The new circular is standing by. The second meeting was with Nav and the directorate, where the wording of the circular was discussed, as the Council of State said in the committee letter that it would be done. But it becomes impossible to relate to a discussion about the circular when one fundamentally disagrees about what accompanying and describing actually is for a deaf-blind. When employees - the bureaucrats - have an intrusive circular to deal with and obviously do not understand that for a deaf blind person, you cannot separate escorting, description and interpretation, nor do you understand what it really is, yes, then it is hopeless. This is the feedback from the organisations that were at the two meetings. Finally, the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which we recently ratified in Stortinget, states quite clearly in Article 30 that people with disabilities should be able to participate in the same way as others, among others. in recreational activities. And the free time of many deaf blind people is life itself. It's often the only time they're out of isolation. It's actually only the Council of States that can sort out the fatality that's happened here. It is possible that the government has intended a process, and it is possible that they now say, as they said in the matter of the change in compensation: they have apparently got something they should not have, according to some paragraph of some law. I don't know, but how in the world can you manage to take from a small group of deaf blind people an offer that they have today, because you're going to work on something else or possibly a better offer. They're still waiting for care money, two years after the government promised to fix it. I'm so frustrated, and I think it's so pointless. Please, reverses! Giving a message to Nav does not help.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4855	The system of interpreting and accompanying assistance for deaf blind people has been highly debated in recent years, among users and in the political environment. The debate was triggered by a clarification in the guidelines of the Working and Welfare Act in the summer of 2012. The representative proposal we are discussing today is to confirm that deaf blind people will be given a right to interpreting and accompanying assistance, for all activities, i.e. hobbies and leisure activities, regardless of whether the activity is to be done jointly with others. As the proposer points out, deaf blind people are a special group with special needs. The need to communicate with the outside world is different from that of other groups. Among the deaf-blind people in the country, there are many very active users, and I think that is positive. It is also important to facilitate continued activity among all deaf-blind people in the country. That is why I am pleased that there are several people who are now getting interpreting help. In 2009, 20 p.m. of the tasks applied for, rejected. Now 10 pst is rejected. There are still too many who are rejected, and in the face of deaf-blind organisations, they are particularly concerned that many of the short assignments are rejected. They may be going to a doctor or a meeting. Especially for a part that lives far away from central strokes, the offer today is so that those who are freelancers are not fully paid for travelling time to deaf blind people who live very far away. In order to strengthen the situation of the deaf blind, it is therefore important to have more permanent staff interpreters in Nav who can be included in a watch list, so that it becomes predictable. It is also important to look at the pay and work conditions of freelance bars, so that they can help deaf blind people across the country. Of course, I am pleased that the Storting is concerned about the situation of the deaf blind, but that situation has been this way for many years. Everything was not good before, as a representative here says. It has, on the contrary, been an improvement. There has been an increase in the budget of the interpreter service from 102 million. SEK in 2009 to SEK 140 million. kr in 2012 and there has been an increase in the revised national budget of 8.3 million. kr. It has given a better offer, but it is far from good enough. The background to the changes in the Labour and Welfare Act guidelines was to ensure better use of the interpretative resources and to correct the differences in the practice between the counties when it comes to the allocation of interpreting and accompanying assistance. For some users — not all — this meant that they experienced changes and that the offer was worse than they had had. That is why we have said that no one should be deprived of the offer they have had in the past, because we are now going to review the guidelines again. That is why we are in a process around this. Both Nav and the Ministry of Labour have taken self-criticism for the way this has been done, but what was meant was to ensure uniform treatment across Norway, so that no deaf-blind person in one part of the country had a completely different offer than others, and to ensure that many more were helped with what they experienced as their everyday problems. I have proposed a modest practice of the legislation in a transitional phase, just to ensure this. On the one hand, extensive dialogue has been established with users and their municipalities in all cases where social security benefits under the Law on Social Security cannot be provided. I have started a work to review the guidelines together with the deaf-blind organisations. I want to hear their views on how best to use interpretative resources. It has been claimed that the changes have been very influential in the possibility for deaf blind people to participate. That's not the intention of the changes. The deaf blind must continue to be able to be active, including those who spend a lot of time on leisure activities. I believe that the work that has now started will help to make this possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4878	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4881	Let me take from what the representative Davøy said, when she referred to the meeting no. two, where organisations of the deaf blind and bureaucrats disagreed on how to interpret and find definitions and distinguish between where and when escorts could be used. My first question to the Council of State is quite simple: Where does the Council of State, which is politically responsible, think that the distinction should go, so that we can give good guidance to bureaucracy, which is to shape the rules? Question two: Why is the Council of State so concerned with the process of promoting legislation, when we know that both the organisations that care for the deaf blind, and the deaf blind themselves, say clearly that they are experiencing a worse availability now than was the case in the past, i.e. a change in practice? Why, if the Council of State also wants changes in this area, has it not just made a legislative proposal to ensure that it could have had the practice – which was practiced before June 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4891	The answer to that is that the situation was not good until 2012, and that there were many more assignments that were then rejected. Now it's 10 pst. Which is rejected, and there are many of them who should have had interpreters. Then I think it's right that the most important thing is first. There are many deaf blind people who have become much more active. That's good, because the deaf blind have to be in physical activity. In the case of individual assignments, e.g.: if you are going on a bicycle ride for 30 days, there will be someone who will receive such an application. Then there are two interpreters who are with you all day. For many, this has been an offer you have received, but not everyone has applied for the kind of assignment that has been given, because there have been other interpreting tasks that have been more urgent. So that might be the basis for changing the law too, but we've seen the need now to prioritize what's most important, namely help in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4900	It can't be easy to be a state council right now, because it's quite incomprehensible to us in the hall, and therefore certainly also to the Norwegian people, that you can't clean up this matter now. I have to quote what the Council of State writes in its letter to the Committee: ‘The proposal would, in my opinion, confer on deaf blind persons a right in addition to that of the other groups the right under Chapter 10 of the Law on Social Security. I believe that such an extension for a particular group is not to be recommended." Can the Council of State explain to us what is the similarity between a deaf blind and all of us, who are not in this group, when she talks about that deaf blind, either alone or with others, must have no other offer than other people? The thing is, deaf blind people are alone in themselves all the time. Even if they're with others, they don't necessarily understand what's going on if no one can interpret it for them. What does the Council of State mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4917	What I mean by that is that if the municipalities are no longer to be responsible, only the state, it requires a change in the law. For today there is a division of labour between state and municipality. So there might be reasons to change the law in this area. However, what has been important is that existing guidelines, including existing law, should also support recreational activities. This should also be given in the coming time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4924	Then the last representative is Laila Davøy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4927	I think it's set by five lines, but I'd like to take my line now. The councils are actually talking a little bit away from what it's about. No one should be deprived of anything, says the Council of State. But the whole thing is about those who have been deprived of deaf interpreters, and it's about leisure activities. Out on the Lion Hill today, I met many deaf blind people. One by one could tell them that they had lost their offer in the municipality. Let me read an e-mail I got last night: «I have today received a refusal to accompany me for a job course, and was told that I can no longer accompany me to a course on Eikholt, air travel, vacation trips or other situations – the reason is that this is now a municipal task. The municipality is unknown that this is their responsibility. Frustrated.’ What will the Council of State do? This happens every day.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4941	I would then urge the applicant to complain, for jobs related to the job should be covered by the public interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4946	A five-line debate has been adopted. There are now three lines taken, and the representative Sylvi Graham has asked for the next one. And then we'll see if there's going to be another opportunity for the representative, Bavøy, assuming that all parties have the opportunity to get a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4949	The council said everything wasn't just good before. We fully agree with that. That is why the Right-wing Group also supports the proposal she has put forward on new 8.3 million. kr to this area. I then want to ask the Council of State: how much of the total of eight million can the deaf blind benefit? For she herself has said that parts of this benefit interpreting and accompanying services – in other words, not everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4956	The final distribution we'll come back to. However, the situation for the deaf blind in the case of the social welfare budget was 28.5 million in 2009. SEK, and in 2012 it was NOK 43.2 million. So it's been a reinforcement. However, some of the requests for interpreters are still rejected. In the case of the other deaf, they've had a slightly smaller increase, from 73.5 million. NOK 97 million. kr. So it's clear that part of that increase will also benefit the deaf blind. It also appears in the minutes of the last meeting that we had with the organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4963	The councils may have been even clearer today than she was in the letter to the committee saying that she has given Nav – it says so far – order them to give, not directly the offer you had before, but that you should do it lightly. The representative, Tove Linnea Brandvik, said today that it should be handled as if the old legislation were in force. Then it's quite incredible to me that you can't tell Nav that they're going to let the old legislation apply, at least until we've got the job done and maybe find other arrangements for these short assignments, which are not about leisure time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4973	Some of the short assignments are also about leisure time. And it's about people who live far away from central strokes, because it's been a lot more expensive for them to get deaf interpreters than for others. So that's wrong what the representative says. What we have said to Nav is that we believe that this process has been unfortunate, because they have not changed the law, but they have sent out some guidelines, and they have made it completely independent of talking to the organizations. I think that is wrong. Therefore, it shall not be such that those who have had an offer earlier should be exempted from it on grounds contained in guidelines. This does not mean that everyone gets the interpretation jobs they have applied for, because it has been a long time, that this has been a pressed resource, and that not everyone has got what they need. But I believe that in terms of interpretation tasks, it is right that we give priority first, and that is among other things. interpret health care tasks and other types of services. I also believe that leisure activities are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4982	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e4987	Is everyone coming, or is it 'em' and 'we'? Taking a bike ride and knowing the summer breeze in the hatch a late summer highlight gives me increased quality of life. That deaf blind people should be deprived of this opportunity, I find it unworthy. Today, Berit Rasmussen Øie from Halden stands out, for she is denied interpreters for her leisure activities. She says, "I feel completely empty. It takes so much extra energy to suddenly find someone to accompany me during the race or for physical activity. [[...]] I belong to the group that many see as invisible. I speak clearly at the same time as I have a severe hearing loss. I take off the hearing aid, I hear nothing. Then I can't perceive speech. When I practice, I get sweaty and then the hearing aid breaks. That's why I can't wear it, but I need someone who can sign language to run with me." Besides being deaf, she's blind. Øie Rasmussen further says that before changing the rules, she could order an interpreter from the assistance center for training tours, running and riding. But because she runs individual training, the rules are interpreted to mean that she doesn't need an interpreter, because she doesn't have to communicate when she runs. She thought it was wrong and unfair. The Council of State said that no one should be deprived of the offer they had previously had. Rasmussen Øie is standing up today, and she has lost her offer to run for a walk – to train. Governments say it's the short assignments that organisations focus on. I don't know how good Rasmussen Øie is. But a doctor’s visit or a parent’s call – which has been highlighted here – does not have a duration of more than three quarters. So if there's short assignments, a 45-minute exercise trip is exactly the same. There has been talk of central strike versus district. To Halden it's 12 miles, I Googled up to. I think Eastfold is considered a central strike. What the government and the government are trying to represent is not the reality of the 350 people who are deaf-blind. They have received a worse offer than they had before 2012. The Government and the Council of State must give clearer signals. I feel sorry for the office, which I have been sitting and following through this matter. They have not had it easily because of the signals that have been given.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5009	I just have to say that I am deeply disappointed today. I had kind of hoped it was possible to say that at least you should go back and reverse the code and take a completely different initiative towards Nav. I have many e-mails about this, and there have been many enquiries about all the rejections that have been given on the grounds that the municipalities will take over, and that Nav has now changed the legislation. This is the reality -- this is the way it is. The municipalities have no competence. So it takes three years to train a deaf-blind interpreter. I want to take the story of care money. It is the same government, it is the same Council of State – not in persona, but the previous Minister of Labour. Then Nav also clarified the code, they said. So many families with very ill children lost their allowance. We stood in this room, and the Minister of Labour said, "Yes, but now we're going to review it." I said – exactly the same thing as now: why is it cut before you have a different and better order? It was done. So they said that you should add this to a sample – the Kaasa Committee – that would look at care money. They were about to come back to Stortinget. The Minister of Health, who has been treated in this room, received a note of care. Two projects — or at least one major related project — have been identified. In the first phase, one thing has to be done, and in the second phase — in a few years’ time — one has to come back to the financial arrangements for care and care. So the government councils and government parties here today believe that we should believe that this will be solved for this group. It's not credible. I should have liked so much that I could have believed it. The state council will do nothing but ask the deaf-blind complaints if they do not get what they have asked for. Will not the Council of State also take the initiative to make Nav understand? I don't understand this – I'm deeply shocked!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5020	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5034	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5043	The fact that everyone should be given the opportunity to get a job is a very important matter. There is no one who believes that it should be that someone who wants, can and wants to work, does not receive sufficient help — with health problems, lack of skills — or other measures to get into work. That is why many of the proposals that have been put forward today need to be considered in the future. But the government is now working on a big message that has been notified to the Stortinget, on a review of large parts of the Nav project, linked to the fact that people are going to get into work. It's important that it comes, because we know that there are some people who absolutely need better organized help to get to work. That being said, I also need to say that everyone in society is just as much worth, whether one is in work or not. Being an equivalent citizen of society must not be linked to being at work. There is a need to say that, for this discussion about ‘the community’ – which is a concept that the right-hand side is trying to introduce, including in this matter – is obviously about someone who is not entirely part of society. The main criterion for entering that statistics is not necessarily related to whether you have work or not, but to receiving a benefit. Receiving a benefit is a right, and a necessity, because it prevents the poverty of those who do not have work or health to work. A lot of suggestions we want to get back to when the staging message comes. But I also want to clarify – because I think it is important that we draw a right picture now – that lost annual work due to illness and unemployment has fallen. Sometimes the debate may sound as if there is a much worse situation now than it was before, and that there are many more out of work now than before. That is not true, and there will be no more lost annual works now than it was before. What we have to do, of course, is also to take into account the population composition when looking at different types of statistics, and then have, for example, different types of statistics. the share of disability benefits has fallen in the last few years. I also need to add that there has been a lot of discussion about young people. SV and the government are very concerned that young people with disabilities and diseases should have the opportunity to get to work. But I would also like to stress: if you go into Nav's statistics and look at the diagnosis of very many of those who get disability at a young age, it's very serious diagnosis. Some of the increase, says Nav Sjål, comes from better medical treatment now — that is, people actually survive — and from the fact that people today get income insurance, which they didn't get before. I want to say this, because I believe that when we are now dealing with the big message that the government is going to present, it is extremely important that we put in place tools that can work faster for many, that the waiting time between actions comes down, and that more people can get education. We know that helps, and we know that it helps even more people with disabilities. But it is also important that we do not discuss this as if those who need an income hedge do something wrong. The medical advances that have been made, which make many today survive what they did not survive before, must be referred to as a joy. I'm very happy that this has happened, and I don't think it's a problem that those kids have income insurance. It is very important for this government to also have schemes that allow you to have income hedges while qualifying. That's why we're opposed to the cuts in the transitional benefit that the opposition is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5064	I fully agree with Andersen's representative that we should have good arrangements to ensure income for those who, for some reason, cannot work. Nor is there any reason to be ashamed of it if you are ill, whether you have a disease, are born with a disease, or have been in an accident and have had a disease in that way. Therefore, it is also important to say that in a welfare society such as Norway, we should have decent and good welfare arrangements for those who are unable to obtain income from work. It's actually so that if, in the real world, we had zero dissatisfactions, we would probably have had a brutal society. So the fact that we have income insurance schemes, we're in favour. What is our concern is not just based on statistics, although I also have to remind you that, a little depending on where you put the previous number, there has been a large and powerful increase in people on health-related and other public benefits in recent years. Let's say that from 1980 until today it's at least perfectly obvious, so approximately a doubling of the number of people on different public benefits is completely indisputable. It has then stood on the ground resting about the eight years of red-green government. But you can ask yourself the rhetorical question: would we accept the same thing with unemployment? If we wanted to accept that if you had a unemployment rate of 9 or 10 pst, we would say that then, but the unemployment rate hasn't gone up in the last eight years, it's on the ground, it's just 9 pst. which is outside the labour market, so this is not a problem. I don't think any political parties could say that – at least not being re-elected – and I don't think any political parties would dare to believe that either. So, of course, it's true that there are many and complicated reasons why people fall out of work or never come in. But what we politicians have to address is the reasons we can actually do something about. Then there's not so much that the government has done so much wrong in the eight years they've been sitting, it's more that they haven't done so much. Some of the problem is that every time this debate has come up, the Red-Green parties have first warned against the Right's reality descriptions, and they have used their speaking time to warn against Right's words and deliberately failed to hear when we stress that we are also followers of public schemes for those who need it, and then they have warned against Right's concrete measures – the new ideas and better solutions that Right's actually promoted. For example, for several years, the Right has provided for enhanced reading and writing training for the many Nav and Action Systems that cannot read and write well enough. They do not lack the willingness or the ability to stand up or anything like that, they simply have problems reading and writing. The government has said that they are busy, but they have not done anything about it. When the Right launched measures to increase the number of social clients in activity through a strengthening of the obligation of activity, the Government said it should be assessed. Then you decided that it was fine, just like today. When the Brofoss Committee provided a review based on the fact that the action sector in Norway – although it is very good – does not deliver the expected results, and that then we send people around and around the response system without getting out of work, the Council of State and the government had to be almost drawn to admit the Stortinget a notification of the case. This is eleven concrete proposals from the Right. Some of the proposals are relatively comprehensive, for example: creating entirely new indicators on how to manage the action sector. Other proposals should be simpler, for example: start reading and writing training for more than one adult. What they all have in common is that they have either been voted down or not presented by the red-green government in the last eight years. It bears witness to a lack of action – unfortunately. One thing in the end, since I have 46 seconds left: the transitional benefit has been discussed several times earlier in this room. It's only worth noting that even though it's true as Andersen's representative says, the red-greens in this period have been at peace with the transitional aid, I'm saying that the Workers' Party in its party program has actually adopted exactly the same position as the Right-Fucked-out position in this room just one to two years ago. So it's nice to see that at least parts of the red-green coalition come after. Then I will take up the suggestions that the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5092	The representative of Røe Isaksen then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5095	Although Norway has a high level of employment, many people are out of work. An active policy towards these is very important, both because I think work is good for the individual and because work is an important resource. I also share the concerns underlying the proposals and am pleased with the commitment of people outside the labour market. I want an inclusive working life that can accommodate as much as possible, while at the same time ensuring the participation of the Working and Welfare Session and the provision of back-up services. I am in favour of several of these proposals, and the government will discuss several issues that have been raised here, in the forthcoming report on employment. I have commented on all the individual proposals in the letter of reply and will therefore comment on only some of these now. But first let me go to the overall picture that there are more on health-related benefits than before, if we compare with the 1980s. That's right. But at the same time, there is another strong trend since I was young in the 1990s. It is that the proportion of social welfare recipients has fallen quite a bit. This is because we still make increased demands for activity. It's important. But what the Right proposes is something that all the right-wing municipalities – whether Oslo, Tromsø, Bergen or Stavanger – are in favour of, that is, having a provision in the law to make demands. This would be unfortunate, because those who are offered social services locally are people who can both work, can be offered activity where they can participate, and people who have no opportunity to participate in activity — such as those who do not. older people. So I think it's a little bit of an appropriate proposal. At the same time, it is also wrong what the representative says about the transitional benefit. After all, we have made quite significant changes to the transitional benefit and have made demands for activity. It is funny that the representative from the Right will extend the cash support scheme, which does not have a single requirement for activity, and remove the transitional benefit before he and the Right have put in place an alternative – at least for those who have a child over a year. So then I think we're going to work all the time to change the transitional benefit, but we don't want to remove any support for lonely caregivers who work well, and who can be further developed, until we have something different and better on the wallpaper. What's important in the case of low-income families is that there are a lot of lonely dependants. Taking away an offer now, I believe it is wrong. The proposalers therefore believe that the labour and welfare movement has too many objectives to manage, and therefore ask for a review of the governance of the establishment. I would like to remind you that there has been a deliberate reduction in the number of targets reported by the individual Nav office. There is a good and ongoing dialogue between the department and the directorate on this. I do not think it is appropriate to initiate a parallel review of the ethos control. It is important to obtain information on the impact of the various labour market measures. The forthcoming announcement of more people at work will shed light on, among other things: government policies in the fields of research, follow-up and evaluation of different actions. We have already launched a three-year trial with results-based funding of labour-oriented actions to see if this can deliver better results than the current funding model. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare currently administers a grant to social entrepreneurs working to combat poverty and social exclusion. The experience of this grant scheme and other instruments to facilitate social entrepreneurship and innovation will be assessed in 2013. The size will be briefed on the status of this work in the State budget for 2014. So to the proposal on fixed-term labour tax deductions and transition from social security to work. We're opponents of that, so I'm not going to say that I'm a follower of it. In the case of those who are young people outside the labour market and who require better follow-up, we have done something with these groups, among other things. the introduction of a youth guarantee, but there is an absolute need to look at the quality of return work in order to ensure that more people get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5123	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5126	I became a little curious about this, because the Right's policy with regard to transitional aid has been to support all the implementation of the obligation of activity – we have discussed this before – but then to reduce the possibility of having it from three years to one year, but with the possibility of extension if you have children with special needs or you are under education. The working party goes further in its programme. The working party says that the transitional benefit is to be replaced by another suitable social benefit. It's quite right, as the Council of State says, that the red-green government in this period has said they're for transitional aid. However, the Workers' Party opts for the removal of the transitional benefit — away — and is replaced by another type of social benefit that encourages activity and work. Did I misunderstand anything in the Workers' Party program?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5135	What is the difference between the Right Policy and the Labour Party policy is that we do not remove the support for those who have children who are two and three years old before we have an alternative. It is important that those who have young children and are single-parents have a security of income. Then we have a requirement for an activity obligation in today's transitional benefit. If we're going to change that arrangement, it's completely inappropriate to do what the Right says, and take away the financial support for those who have two-year-olds and three-year-olds.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5142	The next representative is Torbjørn Røe Isaksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5145	Of course, you need support if you are going to be in education, in work-oriented activities or the like. It's never been about throwing people in the street. I just wonder what the programme of the Workers' Party involves. It's on line 2101: ‘Replace the transitional benefit for sole caregivers with activity-oriented measures and nursery places after the child reaches the age of one year’. It sounds very reasonable to me, but it also sounds very much like the scheme proposed by the Right a year ago and two years ago. Does this mean replacing the transitional benefit with something else, or does it mean not replacing the transitional benefit with anything else?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5158	At least that doesn't mean we want to remove the economic base for single-parents, as the Right suggests. We want to work for a change in the transitional benefit. We want to work even more for job-oriented measures. Many single parents get a better situation when they get to work. Strengthening the line of work is important, but taking away the security of income first, as proposed by the Right, is not our policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5163	Then the representative, Mr Isaksen, wants another line, and that is the reason for it. It's assigned five lines, we're now on the third.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5166	I'll take the hint. I'll just ask the question again. If the Council of State – not as the Council of State, then she probably believes what the Council of State thinks – it is that it is understood that the Workers' Party will maintain the transitional aid for the next period, or have you programmed – as it says on line 2101 – to replace the transitional aid for sole dependants etc.? Does this mean that the transitional aid will be gone? That's a pretty simple question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5173	What is important for the Workers' Party is that it should provide financial support to the single-parents who are active. It's our policy, it contributes to more people working. Then we will look at changes in the transitional benefit to contribute to an even more labour-oriented scheme. But getting rid of the sole provider of income insurance, we don't want that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5178	The representative of the Red Isaac did not, however, take the hint.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5181	I'm sorry, President, but in this programme formula there's nothing to say about introducing an alternative income hedge targeted at single-parents. It says to replace the transitional benefit for single-parents with activity-oriented measures and childcare facilities after the child reaches the age of one year. It is funny if the Workers' Party thought that it was just to replace it with a new system directly for single-parents, that it was not programmed. Or is there something else behind it? I ask again, can the Council of State guarantee that the transitional aid will survive for four more years if the Workers' Party joins the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5188	What I can guarantee is that single-parents should be supported at the same level. We do not want to take support from single-parents. What the system is called, we will come back to, but that we want a system that helps single-parents get money so that they don't get disproportionately bad out, that's what we stand for. It is not the same thing that the Right has proposed in this case. They have proposed to remove the transitional aid for those who have children over one year of age.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5193	There's another line if someone wanted to. It's not, and so the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5198	Behind many of the proposals that are on the table today, there is a presumption that if those who are sick, only practice more, practice more, and acquire new skills, you will get more people to work. But is it certain that the issue is being addressed? Take, for example: the situation of those suffering from mental illness. There is a strong commitment to work, but many will not be employed. They don't get the chance. Unfortunately, there are very few statistics on discrimination at work, and I hope that you can see that when you are about to produce a big message – that in this area there is no statistical basis for making decisions. I would like to give a picture of what we are talking about on a general basis of discrimination – as a cover for the claim of discrimination. The examples are largely taken from the WHO report ‘Mental health and development’. A European survey shows that only 50 pst. help is provided by those with mental challenges. If you have diabetes, the chance of getting help is 92 pst. In a survey conducted in 63 countries, only four countries do not have restrictions on the voting rights of those with psychiatric conditions. In Norway and the United States, insurance can be refused if you have a serious mental health problem. It's a little bit more serious in the United States, where the health system is based on insurance. With such undercurrents, there is no reason to believe that discrimination does not apply in the workplace at home. The few figures we have show that mental illness is the invisible diagnosis that leads to discrimination when it becomes known. It goes without saying that an action plan for work and mental health is important, and that success in including the employment contract is important. We do the mentally ill a bear service if we have no more focus on the equal employer's responsibility for the mentally ill. The burden of proof must be reversed. It is good that specific measures are taken, but it is important that it is not just specific measures. The entire working life must be inclusive. Some of the things that are missing are knowledge of mental disorders. The Workers' Party's party programme says that you want a knowledge gap in this area, and I hope that it will be included in the work to be done with the Storing Message. Finally, non-discrimination requires uniformity; mental illness is taken seriously as an equal citizen of society; and the majority takes a settlement with the use of the word ‘foreign’, about us who are different. We are – and should be – part of society, whether we can work or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5221	First, I would like to thank the representative Yrvin for that article. I should also have said something in my post about what she was pointing at now, because this is very important. There is discrimination in the labour market. You get discriminated against for different reasons, because you've been sick, have holes in your CV, or because you have mental problems. It is quite right – as the representative Yrvin said – that we also need to look at how working life works, whether you are really willing to accept people with health problems. The lack of social dumping in the right-hand side comes in a ghastly light here, because it is clear that in a working life that is becoming tougher, with less protection than today, it will not be possible for people with health problems to function, whether the problems are physical or mental. But you might see a little bit more ease in taking in someone who can work around the clock for a short period of time, until they get sick as well. This is related. So to the discussion of benefits while qualifying. SV is very attached to it, and we're very attached to the transition aid – or what you call it now. I'm recording the discussion here now. The point is you can look in the budgets. There, the Right and Advance Party have removed over 1 billion. kr on a yearly basis, and that is the money families who have two and a half times as great a chance as others to become poor, will live off while they qualify. That's the requirement today, and the money's gone. I think this is important for these families. The Progress Party is also taking steps to remove Jobjeansen, which is also a system to help people outside – especially immigrant women – with motivation and support to get to work. It also removes the Progress Party. These are arrangements that actually get people out of work into work, and they're evaluated. Fafo has evaluated how the transitional aid works. It works most for immigrant women. People come to work. And then you go into it, and then this is going to be very hard to understand. Does it not seem that having a secure income insurance system while qualifying for work — whether you are in a difficult social situation, a difficult health situation, or something in life that has made you unable to work — is necessary for people to get a foothold? Don't you realize that it's actually a good idea to do that? In addition, it is socially right, because it prevents poverty. It does. We'll discuss that more later. This is one of the most important arrangements we have, because it combines securing income while qualifying for work. Instead, you cool off with cash support, which is payment to keep people away from work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5236	I hear that part of the government parties talk a lot about something other than what is in this proposal, which the Christian People's Party believes is a good proposal. There are many good measures here. We need to make an effort to get more people with reduced working capacity into work. What has been a joyous development when we talk to some of the labour market companies is that it is said – at least from some point on – that they actually get more people into the ordinary work now than before. It's very joyful. I, personally, have been visiting Telenor out on Fornebu. They have two projects, Telenor Open Mind and Telenor Integration, which actually manage to get people who have had trouble getting to work again. However, it requires a slightly different structure of action from that of the system today, because – as the representative of the Red Isaacs was also involved – many go from action to action. We also know too little about the impact of many of the measures we are using today. Actually, I took the word to refer to a study that the Institute of Labour came into 2012, which is certainly familiar to both the Department and the Council of State, but which I think we should remind each other of. The Labour Research Institute points out that inclusion of disabled people in the labour market would be socially viable. The analysis shows that society will save billions by getting more people to work. They write on their websites that an increase of 5 pst. in e.g. participation in employment will bring socio-economic benefits of about 13 billion. kr over a 10-year period. Each new employee will contribute, over the decade, a socio-economic gain of close to NOK 900000. Exciting numbers, a win-win situation, but then it's incredibly important to know that the measures we're taking are working. I think that for many of those who have reduced their ability to work, it might be important to get a slightly longer measure, instead of having to go for a few months on each measure and then have a stay between them, as we see that many have it today. Then I want to hit a blow so that the public goes ahead with a good example. The public is almost absent when it comes to taking disabled people into working life. That's where we should all make a lot of effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5250	I am very pleased that this proposal for a representative has been promoted, and, as you can see, there is an overall opposition in the committee that supports all the proposals, and that wants a vigilance to help more people realize the dream of being a part of the working life and the inclusive society. That's why it would have been good if the majority parties had come to meet us a little bit, but I think the wonder time is over enough, so you can't expect it. What made me take the floor was among other things. what Mr Andersen referred to. Yes, the Progress Party wants to reduce the transitional aid from three years to one year. Yes, the Progress Party protects those who are the most vulnerable. Both those undergoing education and those who have sick children shall be able to retain the benefit for longer and for up to three years. I think the way SV approaches this becomes a little bit strange, in the sense that you almost define all the lone mothers who get the right to transitional benefits, as poor. That's not the situation. That is not the case – far from it. I think it's a strange form of rhetoric when you stand on this pulpit and say that this will really take away the foundation of those who are most vulnerable to poverty reduction. It'll be a little weird for me. I am registering the exchange of lines between the Council of State and the representative of Røe Isaksen. I also note that the Workers' Party's new programme, on which they are going to vote, goes beyond what the Progress Party proposed in its alternative budget. So you're proposing to remove the transitional benefit. We propose that at least the transitional aid should be maintained. We got the skin full in this room. At the same time – and that is quite incomprehensible – the representative Karin Andersen goes into the strup of the Progress Party because of this, but he is eager to sit in a government that will remove the regime the Progress Party wants to maintain. I think that's a little strange, but at least I'm recording – and I want to use Karin Andersen's own rhetoric – that Karin Andersen and SV are eager to sit in government with a party that is dominant and that will remove one of the most important mechanisms to combat poverty. I think that's interesting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5263	First, I would like to say that what the representative Eriksson says about the transitional benefit is wrong. You will not receive transitional benefits if you are not either either completely unemployed or have only a small job, because this is a highly needs-tested income-based scheme. You're lonely, and you don't have a job – that's the combination to get the transition benefit. So the reality is that the Right Party and the Advance Party have removed over 1 billion. NOK on an annual basis, and then there is not so much money left in this scheme. And as far as I can see, they haven't strengthened any of the other income insurance schemes in order to get more people in there and get income insurance, for example. through redundancy payments – but all of these would not qualify for them. And they don't have the right to unemployment benefits, because they don't have a job. It's a reality that at least they're entitled to social assistance. Nor can I see that they have strengthened the municipal sector or anything to take account of it there, and it simply means taking the income from the family. That is the reality. I have been in this room for a long time – I have been in opposition for eight years and have been in a government constellation for eight years – and I see where it is possible to get the most. I have not finished reading the Workers' Party's programme, but I note that we agree that this money should not be taken from the lone carers. They're going to have income while they qualify, because it works, and I'm very happy to be said now, and it's going to be what SV stands for, anyway, because we know that it works. Keeping this system up, preventing massive poverty, and it helps people to qualify, for Fafo has gone through it – they have examined the system, and it works! So I can't understand how the representative Eriksson can interpret what they have suggested as something other than what it actually is, even at Jobsjansen, because immigrant women are not going to get any more help than anyone else – sail if they stand far from work, sail if we know that they might not even be allowed to think of that idea that they are going out into work. This system is precisely a system for even getting support at home in order to dry up the idea of starting that job. But no, we shouldn't. However, they should receive cash support – to be at home and to keep their child away from kindergarten – and afterwards they complain that the kids cannot Norwegian when they start school. There are bad arrangements the Progress Party proposes. The government is proposing working arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5274	Just a brief explanation: first, the Progress Party also wants to help immigrant women and immigrants into working life, just as we want to help people with disabilities into working life. And I would like to remind the representative, Andersen, that the alternative budget of the Advance Party has not removed the income hedge for this group. We came up with our own work strategy of 1.5 billion. kr more than the government provided. We just reinforced the redundancy payments to take account of the need for income protection. But what we didn't want was to give people passive benefits rather than being actively followed up to get back to work. I record that there is a big difference: the Progress Party wants – and that is what we stand for – people to be helped into working life. Whether you're an immigrant woman, an immigrant, a disabled person or an ordinary citizen who's unemployed, you need help to get into work. That is why we have also ensured a better job strategy, and we have ensured that we need more work clearance money, so that we have income security. That's what the representative Karin Andersen jumps over. The big difference is that we want to help them get into the labour market rather than go on passive benefits, while SV wants them to stay on passive benefits. That's what I register is the big difference, and in that area, I think our policy is better than the SV's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5281	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5295	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5304	The issue we are about to deal with now is age limits in the public sector and the special age limits for a number of professional groups – policemen, nurses, help nurses, etc. After all, just a few months ago, we dealt with a similar proposal, and then in the 70th anniversary of the Work Environment Act. My clear impression is that we – in all parties – share the intention to let people continue to work if they want to. In most cases, there is something that everyone serves. But we have a little bit of different angles of incidence. In the previous round we had, however, the majority reached a broad compromise, asking the government to put forward a case on this during the next spring. I was quite satisfied with that compromise then, and as I stressed at the time, this is an ‘idea whose time has come’. It's almost 100 years since the 70s were introduced, and working life and life is something quite different now than it was then. It is high time to adapt the law not only to the pension reform but also to the fact that we not only live longer but are also healthy longer. Therefore, I am somewhat disappointed that we have not been able to reach a similar compromise on special age limits. I share the impatience of the proposers in this matter, and therefore the Right, together with the Progress Party, promotes a proposal that the special age limits should also be explored. The logic behind this is quite simple: many special age limits are hopelessly old-fashioned and sometimes incomprehensiblely low for us today. A 63-year-old police officer on his way up Karl Johan or down the Greenland camp oozes of authority. Saying that by filling 63 pieces of paper by definition is useless as a policeman is an insult to all the people who are standing up. It will be extra bad when an obsolete law meets poor personnel policy and – if I may say so – an almost unintelligible lack of judgment. The Inland Hospital gave all its employees over 65 years of age ten days in winter to cancel their job, and if they did not resign voluntarily, the hospital would fire them. So when you talk about more warm hands from this pulpit, that's how the reality is. Therefore, it is at least as timely to go through all the special age limits as it is to reach the 70 year limit. In this context, I would also like to stress that I understand the second proposal that is being promoted, that the obligation to resign should cease for those who cross the special age limit and who work in public or publicly owned companies. In the long run, I want yours too. I understand, as I said, the impatience of the proposers, but as we have stressed earlier – these are complex issues, and that is exactly why we are asking for a proper investigation of special age limits, and that also involves a dialogue with the social partners. Therefore, we also believe that it is not possible to cancel the compulsory retirement until such an investigation is available. It's doing things in the right order, and that's why we can't support the proposal right now. But at the end of the day, before I take up the proposal on which the Right is involved, I have to say that it is important that the state – yes, the public – should always set a good example. Good senior policy is about respect for people and about the economic values of society. Only by extending the professional activity by six months can 28 000 new annual works and 14 to 15 billion be triggered annually. kr in social benefits. This is reflected in a new report prepared by New Analysis on Senior Policy Centres. Societies and employers need seniors' labour, while the seniors themselves have to make their way into the labour market. This is a win-win situation! In the end, I address the proposal on which the Right is included.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5325	The representative, Sylvi Graham, then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5328	This proposal is really about two things, but most of all about one thing. It's about the parole obligation. But it's all about giving those who work in the public sector, who want and can work longer, the opportunity to work longer. In his statement, the rapporteur also explained what happened earlier this year with an employee at the Hospital Inland, who was told to either resign or be cancelled within 10 days. It is not a good signal to give when we are politically in agreement that we should facilitate people's longer standing in the labour market. The proposal goes on two things that we can distinguish between. In order to take the special age limits first, proposals were already made in 2005 asking the government to review the special age limits. When we discussed the pension reform later, the government said that there were good reasons for a review and that priority should be given to it. Since then, the Stortinget has not heard any of the world's things when it comes to a review of the special age limit. It has soon been eight years without the government coming back to Stortinget with what you promised to bring back. I don't think that's a very high and good pace given that you want to stimulate more people to stay longer in the workplace. I respect what was also the reason for the introduction of the special age limit. This proposal is not about lifting the special age limit, because I think that people who have had a long day at work are really exhausted, will have the opportunity to leave when you have passed the fallen age. But what we are proposing is changes to Section 2 of the Age Limits Act, which removes the compulsory retirement. I believe that there is a great difference between being able to get the right as an employee to leave when one cannot stand anymore in the job, and being forced to stop. There's a significant difference. Therefore, in this case too, I could hope that the government – and I am happy to hear the Council of State afterwards – would meet the proposal anyway, by allowing the state to go ahead. That's what we're asking: can we, as an employer – where the state is the main owner, in state companies and businesses – remove the compulsory retirement? Can we sit down and take an initiative towards the parties and get it done, so that we can go ahead as a good example and stimulate more people in the public sector who will and can stand longer in the labour market? That's what it's all about, and I hope you can meet us, because I think there's really full agreement in this room that that that's what you really want. With that, I will address the motion put forward by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5350	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5353	The representatives of Storting Robert Eriksson, Anders Anundsen and Harald T. Nesvik have proposed that the resignation of employees who have crossed the special age limit should cease in state companies and establishments where the State is the sole owner or the majority shareholder. Furthermore, the government is asked to provide a specific review of the specific age limits in the public and private sectors, as required by the pension reform. In the Act on Age Limits for Officials, the general age limit is 70 years. Reached age includes both an obligation to resign from the job and a right to a pension. However, the age limit may be set below 70 years if the position imposes exceptional physical or mental stress, so that the individual normally does not have the power to perform the work properly until the age of 70. Alternatively, the position is required to set specific requirements for physical and mental characteristics which are normally more severely impaired before the age of 70 than the proper performance of the service. The lower age limit than 70 is often referred to as the special age limit. The main reason for this special age limit is therefore to protect the employer and society from the consequence that someone is in a position unresponsive for a long time. Most specific age limits in the public sector were set a good many years ago. In many cases, the content of the posts concerned is different from the time the age limit was set. Manual tasks may have been automated. Furthermore, life expectancy in the population has increased over time, and there is much evidence that the health status of older age groups has improved regularly. In many cases, it may at least be possible and appropriate to go beyond what has been foreseen at the time of the establishment of the current special age limits. A central issue of pension reform is to get people to work longer. Continuing a system with a lower specific age limit for a large occupational group does not support this objective. I therefore agree with the rapporteur that there should be a review of the specific age limit in the public and private sectors, and aim at starting such work. The review should also cover the so-called 85-year rule, which means that an old-age pension can be drawn up up up to three years before the age limit, if the sum of age and length of service is at least 85 years. What I'm skeptical about is removing the obligation to withdraw for those with special age limits without seeing this in conjunction with other parts of the legislation, such as. the right to a pension. I also believe that it is not appropriate to limit any adjustments in the special age limit to state companies and businesses in which the State is the sole owner and joint owner. Account must also be taken of the fact that the special age limits involve both rights and obligations for those covered. Therefore, changes in the legislation of persons with special age limits should be addressed in consultation with social partners, not by a single decision of the Stortinget. Such a review must also address the need for any transitional arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5371	I actually have two questions, so if the council replies to the two, we get rid of just one line. I am very pleased that the Council of State is now aiming at starting work on a review of the special age limit. I hope as point A that the Council of State may say a little bit closer when she intends to start that work, and when she can see that it will be done. That's what they said in 2005, and it's been eight years. I hope it doesn't take another eight years. To question two: I record that the Council of State is skeptical about removing the exit obligation, and that if you are going to remove it, it must apply to everyone. That is where I fully agree with the Council of State. But doesn't the Council of State also think it can be a good thing to start where you are an employer, in the companies you are a majority-owned company, so that at least those who want, want and can work longer will have the opportunity to work longer and not be forced to leave by a certain date?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5380	No, I don't think so, because these questions I think must be the basis for discussions with the organisations. The entire pension agreement came about by the Storting joining it, and that the social partners were involved. I also believe that with regard to the special age limits, it is important to discuss it with the organisations. That's exactly why I can't say that at that point and that time this will be done, precisely because the organisations must be involved. There are different age limits for different occupational groups, so it has to be handled that way, and I would warn very strongly against making it a result of dealing with a big-time proposal on this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5388	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 24th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5393	At the Committee's request, we shall deal with case No. 25 and 26 together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5418	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that a replacement of lines be opened of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Those who had to sign out on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5427	We have a proposal for a representative on measures to combat poverty. There are many and sometimes extensive proposals, so I don't get the opportunity to go into everyone, but will affect those I perceive as some of the most important. Everyone needs a place to live. Having one's own home is the prerequisite for participating in the labour market, for taking education, for having a social life and for taking care of one's own health. In the big news Byggje – bu – live, which was released to Stortinget on 8 March 2013, the government announced a new national strategy for housing-social work. The strategy shall help to give more people a suitable place to live and to give more people the follow-up they need to master the housing situation. Some groups need special attention and help to get a more sustainable housing situation. These include particularly vulnerable young people, those with drug problems, mental disorders, refugees and disadvantaged families with children. At a time of high rental prices and a pressurised housing market, it is important that municipalities can offer stable and safe housing to the most disadvantaged. In particular, it should be mentioned that the government has proposed in the revised State budget for 2013 a further strengthening of the Husbank's loan framework by 5 billion. NOK, so it is now a total of 25 billion. kr. In the big news, the government says it will give up to 40 pst. in grants to rental dwellings for refugees and other priority groups. There will be an important contribution to many press communities that experience shortages of housing for disadvantaged people. The majority of the Committee considers that it is important that the social assistance measure for poor families with children be tested on the basis of the same criteria in all municipalities and that the result is to provide the family with a decent living on the basis of individual assessments. Children living in disadvantaged families shall have good, rapid assistance and follow-up. When the Law on Social Services in Nav was passed, Stortinget reinforced the purpose paragraph of the Law and introduced a provision on the consideration of children. Children have their own needs, and the kind of help they may need in order for them to have a safe and healthy childhood. Monitoring of how the municipality follows the law has been carried out, and it has been revealed that there is a lack of follow-up and crime in many municipalities. A Joint Committee stresses the importance of following up the Law on Social Services in Nav, so that disadvantaged people actually get the help they have the right to. The maximum price in kindergartens is the main instrument for high participation in kindergartens. Satisfactory legislation already exists to ensure that families with the lowest means of payment, lower costs or exemptions from the provision of childcare facilities. The SFO offer is largely the responsibility of the municipalities, and moderation schemes have already been put in place. Government parties support the aim of continuing to expand the free offer, as is done from the autumn of 2013. Insurmountable debt problems continue to be experienced by many in our society. There are now several non-governmental organisations that are receiving support for debt advice. They are an important supplement. Many who struggle with debt also have other problems, such as: health, social problems or lack of links with the labour market. Many with debt problems will therefore need health care, social follow-up and labour-oriented assistance in parallel with debt management. Cooperation between different bodies is required, and it may be difficult for a debt advisory service to be provided on a private or voluntary basis. Government parties will therefore give priority to ensuring the quality of public economic advisory services. In this context, it is also important to consider measures as a public debt register in order to prevent more liabilities being absorbed than is possible to deal with. The majority disagree fundamentally with the reintroduction of cash support for two-year-olds. It's work that's the best way out of poverty. Many women have retired from working life for shorter or longer periods as a result, and the cash support itself may have contributed to more families experiencing low income. The weakening of women's links with the labour market also helps to make it more difficult to enter the labour market later on. In particular, the right-wing parties who like to talk loud about the work line support a system where you get paid to not use a nursery place. It means fewer women in the labour market, poorer integration and more poverty in the long term. At the same time, the Right Party and the Advance Party wish to cut the income hedge to lone dependants who do not have work but who are in activity, training or work training, as is required to receive the benefits. There is no doubt that this will increase child poverty and eliminate the opportunities they have to have a safe income while qualifying. Removing or cutting child supplements will also mean more poverty in children. A change of government will be an active step towards increasing disparities and poverty. It should be noted by the proposers of the Christian People's Party. I recommend with this up the setting from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5446	One of the most important ways to help children who grow up in families with persistently low incomes is naturally to help parents get into normal working life and get paid work and thus get better income. There has been a thorough discussion, among other things. in the previous case and in a few other cases today. Let it be the master and the most important. But then we also see that there are many children still living in poverty. There are children who can't participate in what it's quite natural for other kids to participate in. It's about being able to go on school trips, about going on a vacation, about participating with the rest of the team at a football tournament. I myself have been the leader of a sports team where we have had children growing up in families with a persistent low income, and where we have seen that parents have hesitated to report to the kids to participate in, among others. Norway Cup with high props. We have managed to solve this through cooperation with volunteering, which has made it possible to have those children included and actively involved. It was hoped that we would get a cross-political effort where all the parties could sit down and agree on some common proposals that could lift more children out of poverty. My party leader, Siv Jensen, took that initiative in Stortinget's Question Time before Christmas. Government parties said no. So important was the election campaign they went to elections in 2005, when they were going to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke, that they couldn't even sit down with the opposition and try to find common proposals and have a common good. I think that's disappointing. But I am very happy that all four non-socialist parties have managed to come up with 14 good proposals that will help more children get a better life without living in a everyday poverty. That is why I am also pleased that the four parties behind this proposal have been able to find 70 million appropriations. kr in the revised national budget, which will strengthen the response to child poverty for the second half of 2013. We want stronger cooperation with volunteering. We can use Holiday for everyone as an example. It is one of the projects of the Red Cross, where more than 1000 young people each year who are really qualified to participate in the project do not get the opportunity. It's not because the Red Cross or volunteer doesn't have the capacity, but because you can't afford it or you can't afford it. You don't have the framework to do that. Our proposal would give the 1,000 children a holiday experience. We've been clearly confirmed by volunteering. If we had received the funds that you put into the revised national budget and followed up the proposals you are making, we could have given the 1,000 children a good holiday experience this summer. Unfortunately, government parties say no to that. We also want to think about new things, including: in the case of proposal No. 12, where we wanted to have a better interaction between the training provision of guidance companies and the secondary schools with a direct line where one can address the young people at risk of leaving school. There's a reason you fall outside. There's a reason you don't want to go to school anymore. Why not provide these skills, training in another arena, to a greater extent than what is being done today? This is not a new proposal. We have worked with, among others. the companies involved in this proposal, which seem to be good in order to help more people complete education and get out of work. I also want to say a few words about proposal No. 13, which is about launching a pilot project between Nav and the food industry. The daily food industry also has its own industrial school. Kiwi is one of the food chains that wants to get young people who fall out of school qualified for work. There have been major problems – two years of trying to reach an agreement with Nav to get it in place. You haven't been able to do that. I wish we had a government council that could have been a mid-range engine to get it in place. Instead of those young people getting into disability, they could be given the natural arenas to get into the workplace. It would also have been positive to prevent poverty. Finally, on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, I would like to take up our proposals in the voting on case No. 25 and 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5463	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5466	I'm not going to spend time repeating the description of why it's important to do something about child poverty. I will just briefly explain why the Right believes that these measures are important, even if they are not sufficient. Of course, poverty has deep, complicated and sometimes structural reasons. This means, for example, that the most important fight against poverty is being waged. by equipping people for work, providing health care if they have mental health problems, helping people master drug problems, ensuring that social marginalisation and integration policies are not experienced — all the big things. Then the fight against poverty has another side. These are the small, simple measures, which do not aim to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke – which does not have the huge ambitions, but which have a very simple aim, namely to ensure that those who are in a situation where they grow up in a poor family get a slightly simpler everyday life. It is in the category in which these proposals are presented by the four opposition parties. These are proposals that are small and that will not solve the poverty problems in Norway. It's in many ways the very opposite angle of incidence of the big views that you can eliminate poverty with a pen stroke, and that it's just about political will. It is rather small, important steps that can alleviate the effects of poverty on some, but will not eliminate poverty in Norway. This is precisely why the measures are so simple to implement and, of course, government parties are more than free to steal from. I want to mention a combination of measures, which I think are particularly important. Getting people into work, getting people into work and getting people ready for work takes time. But what you can do right away is to ensure that all children in Norway, regardless of which municipality you live in, have a minimum amount of access to meaningful leisure time. Today, there is a poverty pot, which many municipalities use, for example. equipment loans. Some municipalities have good arrangements for, for example: may be covered by quotas. Other municipalities have a kind of cultural card, which means that even children who can't afford it can participate in football matches, theatre shows and that kind of thing. In my opinion, there is no reason why not all municipalities should have such arrangements. Whether you should impose it and streamline the system from the centre, I'm more uncertain about it. But there's no reason why not all the municipalities in Norway, whether they're red or blue, run by the Progress Party, the Workers' Party, SV or the Christian People's Party, should have such simple arrangements, precisely because they're cheap, because they create a lot of joy if you do it right, and because it's so terribly easy to get started.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5477	Some children's growth is constantly marked by ill-advised advice. There are also many adults who have a hard time, but I think the tracks that this puts in some kids are much deeper than many others. I think it's not primarily about the need, but that you feel so much more different than everyone else, and that you can't participate in the society that's so marked by money, and everything costs money. Not just that: the worst thing is maybe that I see ugly tendencies that we don't respect people with bad advice in the same way that other people do. It notices the kids, and I think it's the worst. A society with small economic differences between people is good. That's good. On the SV side, we want the differences to decrease, and we need to make even greater increases for the poorest. The government has done a lot in this area. We've managed to keep the differences down. We've also managed to stop the increase in this area. We have started important things, for example. The focus on child protection, as we know, is one of the most important things we can do. Because this goes through generations if we can't break the vicious circle. It's the most important common denominator. Municipalities can do a lot in this area. We have a law on social services in Nav. It has been overseen. In my view, the result of that supervision is quite alarmingly terrible. Too many municipalities do not do what the law imposes on them. They're going to take into account children, they're going to make sure that children get a good upbringing and get the things that we're all busy with. It's a little strange that some of the proposals that are being promoted here today relate to municipal policy. I know that the proposals are being promoted in e.g. Oslo and Tromsø. Then it's up to the municipal politicians there to do what the representative Røe Isaksen was in place. As he said, it's small measures, and it's municipal responsibility. He was not even sure whether it was necessary for the State to impose the measures on them. I would have liked to have done that. In the municipalities for which the right is responsible, it is fully possible to start this process. So do it! It is a responsibility, and the municipalities do not take that responsibility today. The size has ordered them to do so, and that must happen. It is not possible to join a joint effort with parties that actually increase child poverty. You want to remove the transitional benefit, which is today a benefit you get to be in active action to get to work. There is no passive performance, as the Progress Party says – it is wrong. When you remove it, as the Right Party and the Advance Party want, it is estimated that 17 000 children will lose their family income overnight. The only income left is whether or not social assistance is available — instead of having a safe income for two years. And it takes yam two years if you're going to be able to qualify for the labour market today. It'll take so long. Many of these parents complete education or start education. Afterwards they dare to complete on a student loan. With the Job shine, it's the likes -- it's going to go away. This concerns the families that Nav sails in his report says have two and a half times the risk of ending up in eternal poverty. You go focused on them and remove the income and the basis on which they can stand while qualifying. The system works. It's over 1 billion. kr. The promotion party will take even more, because they will also take the education aid from these families – and they will remove the Job opportunities for immigrant women. Then you come to the jam with suggestions for increased cash support, which is payment to keep the kid away from kindergarten and mother away from work. It works, too. We struggle to get the immigrant women to work – yes, we do. However, the major, important measures to which the opposition is promoting are in the opposite direction. That's why SV is against them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5490	I must say that this is a rather special debate. There is a proposal for a representative from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, with 14 proposals for action against child poverty. There are 9 proposals from the Christian People's Party to combat poverty. If I relate to the Right and the Advance Party, the two parties' main criticism of the government parties is that we spend too much money on the Community's hand, that we have too much of the gross domestic product over the community whose purpose is to ensure worthy relationships for people. We are in the situation that these 23 proposals suffer the fate that they are ‘attached to the Protocol’ and that they are then presented in some form as if the government parties are less offensive in terms of giving dignified human relations than the opposition is. There is something particularly Norwegian about this, I think. I don't know what it's like in other countries, but I have to say that it's a little special Norwegian that there's a kind of competition in being nice to each other and kind to each other in areas that are in many cases quite small, when we have the big dividing lines at the same time, and the government parties are being attacked for an excessive share of gross domestic product going over the community – especially from the Right and the Advance Party, but also increasingly from the Left. Having it materially safe and well connected with dignity, and it's the organization of work, that's the social security we have, that's the housing policy we can pursue, and that's the solidarity we have in everyday life, that decides it. It's simply that one here inspires or engages to have a Cohesion Norway that is warmer and better than a Market Norway. The same parties as here are very offensive in terms of poverty, are the ones who are the foremost in making structural changes in order to promote market Norway, where there is less cohesion. The situation today, according to the opinion of the Centre Party, is that the differences in income are increasing among people in Norway — not shrinking. The national state is responsible for security and security, but we have a situation where there is the most free flow of labour and capital, and we know – from historical experience – that this leads to ever greater differences. It is essential to have a nation-state in control of the necessary policy instruments in order to correct the market and thus ensure a society of cohesion that is significantly more central to important areas of life than a market society could be. This with municipal well-being is absolutely crucial. We see a number of municipalities that are capable of this and manage to have prevention, which are able to have a build-up of responsibilities throughout the life cycle of people, and that are able to intervene at an early stage and help – many times it does not have to be very much more, when one is early out. We know that there are many safe communities around Norway, where there is not so much movement, migration and everything – it is a great degree of stability. You know the neighbor, there are strong non-governmental organisations, and there are people who take responsibility and help each other. This is one of the things that is really the strong part of Norwegian culture, which has given egalitarian societies, and which is a bulwark against various forms of poverty. I will end by saying that one can promote such proposals, and that is good, but it is the great economic and political lines that determine to what extent we are able to create dignity between people. I could hope that at least some of the parties that are behind this could be more involved in the team that thus facilitates humiliating relationships in all parts of society. Then the discussion of poverty would have a greater degree of honesty over it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5509	Politics is about creating an increasingly better society. A society that is good for the children is a society that is good for us all. Therefore, it is wise to focus on providing children with safe growth conditions, where poverty is not perceived as inhibiting or degrading. The present proposals will not solve the poverty problem once and for all, but they will be important steps towards a better poverty policy. In the case of one document proposal, it has just been eaten against children. The measures are concrete, and it will help many poor children to get good measures that they may not have, which many people have had to deal with today. I think few of us in this room understand what it's like to grow up in poverty in today's Norway. Children who grow up in low-income families cannot in any way be charged for their economic situation. Therefore, we should take an additional responsibility to ensure that this group is included in as many arenas as possible, in an equivalent way. No one disagrees. But we have to dare to think wider about both what you can do to combat child poverty, and who can do it. The most important thing, after all, is to constantly approach the goal of lifting the maximum number of children out of poverty, and now there is a little bit of the wrong path in the case of children under 18 years of age. An appropriate measure that I would like to mention, as we promote, is to ensure that all children from economically disadvantaged families have access to equipment loans for leisure activities and similar experience cards. Child poverty in Norway is not just about social distress or lack of consumer goods. It's not about comparing with the richest either. For children, poverty may be primarily about the lack of opportunities to participate in activities in line with other children. It's about the dignity of children and their ability to unfold and develop. It is good that the government supports a test scheme with experience cards for children and young people in low-income families in More and Romesdal. However, such an offer is something we should see in all states. I am so disappointed with the government's lack of willingness to invest more in this. Then I want to bring forward the voluntary organisations, who are making an excellent presentation where the public does not stretch. Through voluntary organisations, many children receive an offer of activity and participation in a difficult situation. The Christian People's Party has long said that without volunteering Norway stops — including in the fight against child poverty, we see that volunteering is a key player. Therefore, it is very important not to underestimate the efforts of volunteering, but rather to step up grant schemes for non-governmental organisations, and to take a boost in order to provide leisure services to children who need it. I would also like to mention the second draft representative, which not so many have been involved here today. It's case no. 26 – the more general representative proposal of the Christian People's Party on poverty. I don't want to go into all the suggestions there, but just mention someone. It's a concern that I think is pretty big. It doesn't apply in all municipalities, but it actually applies in a lot of municipalities. After we got the maximum price in kindergarten, some municipalities have increased the SFO rates, so that they have exploded. In fact, many people can't afford to have the kids in the SFO system. In this way, we want a further graduation of both kindergarten and SFO rates for the poorest. In the case of dental health, I could give a long talk. It was many years ago – it was in the first great period of the Stoltenberg government – that dental health should really be put on the agenda. Very little has happened. Something has happened – a few small steps – but we are all waiting for a dental reform in a larger format. The vast majority of the parties in this room have made that point. So for the cash support: it only lasts for one year, I have to mention it. We want two years in this proposal. But as some representatives talk here, you should almost think that the cash support lasts until they become confirmations or start school. It would almost be thought that it was unfortunate for some children that parents were betting on being at home with them, perhaps a little over the age of one and two. Actually, it's not. We should have freedom of choice – more than what this government we now have wants. Finally, I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party in case No. 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5539	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5542	Poverty often strikes unexpectedly and randomly. It's not a simple explanation of how and why it happens in the world's richest country, but it's a problem that we, as the national parliament of the country, have a duty to take over with the utmost seriousness. In the Left’s view, the priority must be to combat poverty and health problems in children and children’s families, precisely because children are completely free of blame in the situation in which they are born and grow up. No one chooses his own childhood. Therefore, the support schemes that are essential for children's living and growing conditions must be generous. The left has been busy with child poverty for a long time. The former leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim, took the initiative of a public meeting in TV2 on 19 August 2009 to establish a common political commitment to reduce child poverty in particular. This initiative was welcomed by both the Prime Minister and the other party leaders. With this in mind, the current leader, Trine Skei Grande, on the first day the new Stortinget was gathered after the 2009 elections, promoted a proposal for a concrete follow-up to a common promise to combat and reduce poverty among children and in families with children. This was the first proposal made by the Left in a new period. It shows how important this is to the left. She expected that there was a real will to do it all agreed about three weeks before the election. She thought that we could at least agree to set aside all party political achievements, and see if we could jointly find a package of measures to combat child poverty — but no. It must be an improper paradox for a government that promised to eliminate poverty, that after eight years of government, it has become more poor children in Norway. According to the SSB, 74 000 children under 18 now live in families with persistently low incomes. There are 6,500 more than when this government took over power in 2005. I will not extend this debate. I do not claim that the Left has an answer to all the problems, but we have today outlined 14 different actions in connection with the Innst. 481 S which can help reduce poverty. With this, I address the Left's proposals that have been distributed in the Chamber. In addition, we are voting in favour of the proposal No. One, two, three, and thirteen in the same case.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5560	It's noted. The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5563	I would like to thank the proposers for their proposals. This government has put poverty, and especially poverty related to children, high on the political agenda. I understand that the proposers support this agenda and the importance of an ongoing discussion on which action should and can be taken. The two representative proposals contain a number of individual proposals. Each individual proposal was commented on in my written replies to the Committee. Many of the income areas proposed to be strengthened are strengthened — or activity is under way — under this government. So to the extent that the representative of the Red Isaac says that there are a lot of tips to pick up for the government, I think that many of the proposals promoted by the opposition are marked by being tips they have received from the government itself. One example of this was when I was Minister of Culture and we supported cultural maps, which are about the municipality going ahead and giving free access to cinema, swimming pool, museums and theatres. It has not cost the municipality anything, because they have used existing offers, but it is one example that poverty in our time is less about having no money for food. It's about the lack of common experiences, the fact that there are some kids and young people who don't have anything to tell from the weekend, who don't participate in the swimming pool and leisure activities, like other kids. We have strengthened many of these arrangements, including: activity and participation for vulnerable children, under the direction of non-governmental organisations. We have also received criticism from part of the opposition parties that we are too instrumental in our view of the voluntary organisations. They believe that they should have a role in terms of inclusion. But I believe that this is precisely the role of voluntary organisations. A pinch of individual measures — if they are never that good — cannot solve the poverty challenges alone. The proposers behind the proposals for action against child poverty sum up that the most important measures in the long term will be a socially equalising school and work life with room for all. I fully agree with that, but with their proposals, the proposers will give priority to targeted action against those who need it most, rather than broad schemes. I do not entirely agree with that, as I believe that poverty must be combated in both the short and the long term. I believe that the Nordic welfare model with strong Community solutions and a universal safety network have contributed to a balanced distribution of income and to a limited level of poverty. An example of free cultural lessons for all is important because it is universal. It not only helps those who have the least, but it is an offer for everyone. Preventing poverty prevents the transfer of poverty to new generations. We therefore need to look at what conditions in society, what social structures, which help to create and maintain social and economic differences, and then pay and strong links with employment are the most important single factor preventing poverty. At the EU's low income level, a family could be defined as poor if you have three children, mother is at home, and father earns 600 000 or less – then one less than the low income limit. The work of the government is therefore aimed at giving more opportunities to choose work and activity rather than benefits, and the qualification programme is an example of a targeted measure that allows long-term beneficiaries of benefits to get into work. Another is Jobjesen, which Andersen, a representative, has talked about warmly today, which is an example of measures that allow immigrant women at home to participate in training and qualification. I believe welfare schemes need to be designed to support the goal of working for all. A real, reasonable and good range of childcare facilities and the SFO are examples of societal priorities that are necessary to ensure that the choice is no longer between work or care. Social benefits must also be designed in such a way that it is more profitable to work than to receive social security. Therefore, it is incomprehensible that the opposition wants to increase and extend the cash support, all the time we know that among those at risk of living in low-income families, mother is often out of work. However, the government’s long-term efforts to combat poverty need to be combined with short-term measures to help children who fall outside, here and now — children who are not allowed to go on a summer holiday or to participate in birthdays. The government will therefore target and strengthen schemes that meet the needs of the various children to participate in leisure activities and holiday services.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5584	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5587	The letter given to the Committee by the Council of State states that in some areas there is a need for reinforced action and more targeted action towards those at increased risk of poverty. We all agree on that, so my question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think that the measures that the government refers to that they have started, or are going to start, are offensive enough? Can they reduce poverty among children under 18 years of age, which has increased in recent years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5592	Some measures may reduce the number of children below the poverty line, but not all. I have been so lucky to have been Minister for Children and Gender Equality and have taken over the department after the representative. The measures we took offensively after the Bondevik government went off do not necessarily reduce the number of children below the poverty line. It is about offering holidays and leisure activities. The EU poverty line and the OECD poverty line are exclusively related to income. The fact that we have reduced kindergarten prices does not necessarily reduce the number of people defined to be below the EU poverty line. Many of these measures help to improve the quality of families with children — getting cheaper kindergartens and more leisure activities. But what really matters with the poverty line is a mother out of work. Then more cash support is a very bad suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5603	I hear what the council says. I agree that we should have targeted measures. Governments are talking about vacations for children. I believe to remember that it costs approx. Eight million. kr – maybe less. If the Red Cross had got it, they could give 100 pst. of the children applying for a holiday offer, this summer. This is not really a very large amount of money in a large state budget. My question is: I think the Council of State is satisfied that an offer as good as a holiday for children only covers 50 pst. of the number of applicants? Is that offensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5612	It is at least much more offensive than the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality represented by Laila Davay, for there was no type of support for measures in the order we have now received. That means we're much more offensive now than before. Red Cross has got more money. We have also agreed to this in the state budget for the current year in Nav's area. They provide more support for holiday and leisure activities. It's important. I am very proud that this government has had a much more offensive attitude than the previous government on this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5619	The Council of State itself says that one of the most important things is to facilitate holidays and leisure activities. She indicates that the appropriations for volunteering and for the Red Cross have been increased. My simple question is then: When the Red Cross still has to give up 1000 children qualified to take part in the Holiday for all, because there is insufficient funding for the project, will the Council of State, when submitting the State budget for 2014, be able to guarantee that these children are granted their long-term leave — at least from 2014 onwards? In a nation that last year had a surplus of 400 billion. kr, the Council of State may exclude these children from 10 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5626	What I can guarantee is that we spend more money on holiday offers than before, and that Red Cross has been given increased funding for their project Holiday for everyone. They were last increased in 2013. I'm proud to be able to increase these funds. But my answer – in this area as in all other areas – is that when it comes to the 2014 state budget, I'm going to say what's coming, when it's presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5633	I'm recording that the Council of State won't say what's coming. Hopefully, the Council of State will have to present the State budget, but there will be an additional proposal, so that there will be another majority that will put in place the good measures. My next question is that there are a lot of young people dropping out of school, and in the daily food industry's offer of industry schools, among other things. Kiwi has worked very actively to get hold of these young people, instead of getting into bad luck. Work is the best way to secure income and avoid poverty. Will the Council of State take the initiative in resolving the Kiwi-Nav gang, so that the daily food industry can be used positively to get young people into activity, and to provide alternative education, rather than to be dissatisfactioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5640	What we support is that young people should be offered more training in normal working life, because we see that it works. With regard to the specific issue of Kiwi, I am absolutely sure that Nav is aware that we are going to get more young people into work, and that they want to make more use of ordinary working life than they do today. However, it is important that we ensure that the offer of placement in ordinary working life contributes to real qualification, and that this – as we have seen in many countries – is not exploited by the workplace. I have no reason to say that this is done in any way in Norway today, but it is important that we demand those who accept young people on secondment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5648	I note that the parties of government, the parties of the Council of State, have not intended to vote in favour of special proposal No. 10 – which I would like to raise on a question – namely to ask the government to ‘strengthen the provision of advice and guidance to people with financial problems’. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State states: ‘All municipalities shall have a satisfactory financial advice offer. The task is located in the NAV Office and may be supplemented’. [[...]] Is the Council of State certain that all municipalities have the necessary dimension in the financial advice? My experience after being rapporteur for 14 years is that our municipalities had a better financial advisory office before the Nav reform, which was replaced again with partial posts around the different municipalities. Are the Councils of State confident that there is sufficient financial advice in the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5658	I am aware that competence should be strengthened in some municipalities. This is why the county officials have started training in this area for the staff of the Nav Office. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare grants grants to attempts at inter-municipal cooperation, which can be a good solution for many municipalities. The nationwide economic advisory telephone was established in 2009. The service is a low-threshold service, aimed at making financial advice more accessible and helping people with payment problems to find a solution more quickly. This offer will be strengthened when we get better training. Many municipalities have a very good offer, but not all offers are good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5667	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5672	The Labour Party has fought against poverty and freedom for groups and people throughout its history. The government has taken several measures to improve the situation of families, children and young people who are struggling financially. When I hear the debate here today, I hear it has two layers. One is that the right side, the opposition, is trying to avoid everything that's about the basic structures of a society, and the other is that one is talking about individual measures as if they're saving the world. The most important basic structure in society today is that we have created a society that has work for almost everyone. 340 000 new jobs are the most important measures to prevent children and adults from experiencing poverty. Thor Erik Forsberg, the representative of the Workers' Party, referred to the supervisory report and the Nav study on whether they actually follow up on their responsibility for caring for the needs of children, which was part of the purpose section of this government. They found a lot to improve. Just because we had been given the law, the Health Authority could carry out these checks at the Nav offices: Are children being followed up? It is essential to incorporate these provisions into the law. So this government has done that. Where we want the maximum price in kindergarten, the right-hand side won't promise anything. Where we say that we want a predictable local economy, it is very uncertain what kind of local economy comes from the blue government. The only thing that matters is that those who have more will get more. 100 B.C.E. Tax cuts for those with high incomes are not good for the children — nor for poor families, who do not have income to get tax cuts on. We want more culture. Probably there'll be less culture with a blue government. We want more measures to improve integration. The right-hand side will have fewer. We want all children — rich and poor — to become acquainted with each other in a common school. The right side will remove freedom of choice for the poorest. They will never afford to buy private education or health care. Christian People's Party has experience in sitting in government. Last time, when Laila Davøy was Minister for Children and Family Affairs, the proportion of the poor increased from 2 pst. to 4.94 pst. Whether it was Christian People's Party policy or pressure from the Right, don't know, but good for poor children and adults, it definitely wasn't. It is therefore strange that the Christian People's Party now chooses to guarantee a bourgeois government that actually removes the basic structures in order to prevent poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5692	The representative of the Centre Party has been talking about being in a competition to be nicest here today. I must be allowed to do the reflections that I think there is something that is a little unworthy of this debate here today. The fact that government parties are trying to convince themselves or the voters – or whoever it is now – that only those who have a social conscience, or only those who want to facilitate those who really need it here in this society, are not good. I came from a local tradition – almost four years ago. I sat there for 14 years and fully agreed with my political colleagues that we could agree on the goal, and that we could respect each other even if we believed in different ways to achieve it. I don't see any of this today. In 2005, according to the EU's poverty measurement method, 91 000 children aged 0-17 years, i.e. 8.7 p.t., could be described as poor. In 2011, the number was 106 000 children, corresponding to 9.5 pst., writes Dagbladet. The number and proportion of poor children have grown under this government — that is, after eight years of accounting with the government that said they were going to eliminate poverty with a pen stroke, and that it was only about political will. We should be able to agree on one thing in this room, and it is that we need to ensure the social security networks that do not allow the children growing up in the low-income families to be loaded in some way for it, and that society should therefore take an additional responsibility to ensure that that group is included in as many arenas as possible, in an equivalent way. The right has never thought that this was a simple problem, but the most important measures to combat poverty, including child poverty, are, of course, in the long term good social equalizing schools and an open-ended working life with room for all mothers and fathers. These «small» proposals we are promoting today represent 70 million. kr in the revised national budget, which comes in a few days. It would have been important steps, and I think it is unworthy that the government parties are trying to pretend that it is only those who have social conscience, when they do not vote for these proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5701	I think the representatives are honest that they are concerned about child poverty, that has shown a lot of representatives. The problem is when, in other cases, proposals are put forward that remove the security network on which the representative Graham was now up and talking, for example. the transitional benefit, which is a security for the poorest families where one is a dependant. This works for people to get to work. That's when this becomes difficult. It is part of these proposals that are not large, and they are essentially – many of them – a municipal responsibility. The proposals will be promoted in Oslo and Tromsø by SV, and then it is fully possible for the Christian People's Party, Right and Left, who are responsible in these municipalities, to do so. They are required by law of social services in Nav to do these things. It is possible that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party now believe that this responsibility should be placed entirely on the state – that is quite possible. There's an SV disagree. We want these proposals to be implemented where they belong. The representative Graham also says that she comes from a community tradition, where you work together. Yes, I understand that, but unfortunately it is now documented in four reports from the Health Authority that the municipal tradition is not to follow the Social Services Act. I think that is a very serious matter, which we need to look at more closely, and we need to tighten this up. That's how many people have said that some of the things that we all want to do will not change the number of child poverty. Better leisure services, cheaper kindergartens, we could have a free dentist, we could have free rent – there will nevertheless be as many poor children, because it's just the income that counts. There is a call for cooperation with the volunteers. It hasn't been many weeks since I was at the Sanctuary of Hamar. They received grants for voluntary work for families with lone dependants. Of course, they explained what we all understand, that being alone for children is very difficult and heavy. Not only do you have bad advice, but you often have a worse network than we others have been lucky to have. To put it like that, to raise kids, a lot of adults are needed. We cooperate very much with the volunteer organizations. And we're going to keep doing that because it's important, and it's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5714	It's late enough, and it's sad that you have to extend the debate, but what made me speak was the representative Henriksen. She said in her speech that poverty and freedom have always been a fundamental idea of the Workers' Party. Yes, we noticed it earlier this evening, when we were in both the care allowance and the deaf blind. Let me label it. I would rather advise the representative Henriksen to listen to what is said in the debates from this pulpit, rather than to make a script that has been written the evening before, because there may be information coming from this pulpit that is worth listening to and worth taking into account in the debate. What we're standing here saying, we're actually talking about. It's not something that's plotted. We have not said that we are promoting individual measures as if it were to save the world, we have said that this is a small, important step in the right direction. None of us have used the concept that this is a blessing and is going to save the world. We've said that it's an important and correct step in the right direction. At the same time, I register – even within this government period – that we now have over 700,000 out of work. When the representative Henriksen says that the right-hand side does not want a maximum price on kindergartens, I would like to remind you that for some years we made a kindergarten settlement where all the political parties agreed on a maximum price. Very well known, the government has not proposed to change the maximum price, neither in the previous period nor in the current period, so it is well established in relation to the nursery arrangement. I think you should be a little bit more sober when you use rhetoric in your posts from this pulpit. The representative, Karin Andersen, has hung himself in one thing, and it's transitional. If you want to help the single mothers also return to work, why not offer them redundancy benefits while they are qualified to get out of work, which too many of them can provide better income than transitional benefits? Why not make sure that they get the individual follow-up, the long and tight follow-up that brings them back to work? Why have two benefits that are now going to be exactly the same, why not streamline it, make it better and get a more united approach to those families?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5727	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 25 and 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5733	Then Stortinget is ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5741	During the debate, 97 proposals were put forward. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 3-49, by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 50-82, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 83 to 85, from Trond Helleland on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 86-88, by Knut Arild Hareide on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 89-97, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1–88 has been included, while proposals Nos 1–88 have been included. 89–97 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 89 to 92, 94 and 97, from the left. Proposal No. 89 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish an InterCity AS with the possibility to issue government-guaranteed bonds to finance InterCity by 2025, Ringeriksbanen and new Oslotunnel.’ Proposal No. 90 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to facilitate a new railway tunnel under Oslo with completion by 2025.’ Proposal No. 91 reads: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish the Gjøvik track as a pilot route for tenders for the investment and operation of the railway body, not just trainsets on top of the rails.’ Proposal No. 92 sounds: ‘The Government requests the launch of a new high-speed investigation independent of the Railway Agency, which can form the basis for competitive distance in the future.’ Proposal No. 94 sounds: ‘The government asks to provide metropolitan municipalities wishing to take over the operation of local train services.’ Proposal No. 97 sounds: ‘The government is asked to increase the national transport plan framework by 25.0 billion in 2014-2023. krona compared to the Meldnings framework. St. 26 InterCity in 12 years; bond model 3632 12757 1326.91 Oslotunnel on bond model 743 1326.91 Ringerix track; bond model 1200 641 1350.32 Investigation measures against Bergen, Kristiansand, Trondheim, Gothenburg and North Norway 330 1350.30 Cross-country track 350 1350.33 Operation and maintenance 420 1350.30 Kongswingerbahn 450 1350.30 Stavanger – Egersund 200 1350.30 Arna – Voss 400 1350.30 Arna – Voss 400 1350.30 Ålgårdbahn 590 1350.30 Gjøvikbahn 700 1350.30 Trondheim – Stjørdalmeasure 150 1330.61 Fornebubane 400 1900 1330.61 Klnebubane 400 100 100100 1300.30 Klbane Bergen 1652 1448 1330.61 Stadtbahne Stavanger 800 887 1330.61 New trame tunnel 100 400 1330.62.62 Cycle action 400 1330.130.61 Vidnebugøvs100 100 100 100 100 10100 Sjøvsøvsøvsøvsøv. [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]] [[new]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5876	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 93, 95 and 96, from the left. Proposal No. 93 sounds: ‘The government is asked to identify the possibility of private financing for upgrading Ofotbanen.’ Proposal No. 95 sounds: ‘The Government is requesting the launch of a transnova-controlled high-speed charging project to facilitate electric cars in the central transport corridors.’ Proposal No. 96 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure the continued operation of the hydrogen filling stations in Norway.’ The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e5905	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 86-88, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 86 sounds: ‘1. The framework for transport purposes in the 2014-2023 planning period is increased by 17.92 billion. SEK in addition to the government's proposal to increase funds made available for transport by 27.92 billion. Of a cylinder capacity exceeding 1000 cm3 but not exceeding 1000 cm3 breakdown in the following table: Economic framework, deviating from government proposals. Annual average. Mill. 2013-kronor. PurposeGovernment's proposal NTP 2014-2023Cristible People's Party proposal NTP 2014-2023RisingCap. 1350 Railway station16 78117 381600 Cape. 1330 items 711)-250250 Chapter. 1330 item 60 Reward scheme collective action9231423500Map. Item 1320 61 Interest compensation for transport operations in the counties2281000772Cape. Item 1330 Item 61 Subsidies urban railways - 200200Cape. 1320 entry 23/30 Statens vägvesen31 15531 605450Cap. 1301 item 722) Infrastructure Electric car Transnova2020Effectiveness gains-10Sum increase1 792 1) New item: route and cycle reward scheme. 2) 50 million. First four years. 2nd@item: inlistbox Increased funds within these main frameworks are distributed in line with the comments of the Christian People's Party in the Inner East. 450 S [[2012-2013]] Proposal No. 87 says: ‘The government asks the government to set up an infrastructure fund with a framework of 50 billion. crowns, so that major expansions are more fully implemented and with more predictable funding.» Proposal No. 88 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to bring forward a new case for the Storting so that the development of the entire InterCity triangle can be realised by 2026.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e6050	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 83 to 85, from the right. Proposal No. 83 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a maintenance fund of 50 billion. crowns, where the yield is earmarked for road and rail maintenance.» Proposal No. 84 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a gradual increase in the reward scheme to 1 billion. annual crowns.’» Proposal No. 85 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to plan and develop the InterCity Triangle as quickly as possible and by 2030 at the latest.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e6077	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–18, 21, 23–27, 29–31, 33–46, 48 and 49, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to increase the framework of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023 by 454.5 billion. krona compared to the Meldnings framework. St. 26 [[2012-2013]] Cape. 1320 Statens vägvesenInclusions from the Progress PartyPost 23 Traffic Supervision, Operation and Maintenance+35,00 billion SEKPost 30 Rijksvej investment via government budget + 33.00 billion SEKPost 31 Racism + 6.00 billion SEKItem 62 Supplements to racial protection of the county road network + 6.00 billion. SEKItem 63 Grants maintenance district roads + 37.00 billion. kronerPost 72 Purchases of highway/extended to district ferries + 20.00 billion SEKItem 99 Other funding is covered by the government + 97.50 billion. kroneMap. [[New]] [[New]] 1322 Railway SFPost 95 Capital deposits + 38.00 billion kroneMap. 1324 Riksvei SFPost 95 Capital deposits +124.00 billion kroneMap. 1330 Special transport measuresPost 60 Special public transport grants +10.00 billion SEKPost 80 Big City Pack City Pack+5,00 billion. SEKPost 82 Traffic security measures +10.00 billion. kroneMap. 1350 Railway stationPost 30 Investment in the line +15.00 billion kroneMap. [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 1062 Coastal worksPost 30 New installations Development of freight ports +1,50 billion SEKSUM The additions of the promotion party + 454,50 billion krona+ Government NTP 2014-2023507,99 billion SEKSum NTP 2014-2023+ 962.49 billion kronor [[New]] The size requires the government to give priority to the development and upgrading of existing motorways over the following sections: Rv. 22 Lillestrøm – Fetsund with bridge over Glomma E18 Riksgrensen/Örje–Oslo–Kristiansand E6 Riksgrensen/Svinesund–Oslo–Trondheim–Steinkjer E39 Kristiansand–Stavanger E16 Sandvika–Hønefoss Rv. 4 Oslo – Mjøsbrua Rv. 2 Riksgren/Magnor-Kongsvinger E39 Stavanger-Bergen Rv. 25/ Rv. 3 Hamar – Elverum E16 Hønefoss-Gardermoen – Kongswinger Rv. 35 Hokksund–Åm v. E134 Drammen–Bergen Rv. 19 ferries-free connection Østfold – Västfold Stortinget asks the government to give special priority to railway investments in the following sections: Østfoldbahnen Oslo – Halden – Sweden Dovrebanen Oslo – Lillehammer Vestfoldbanen Oslo – Skien Kongsbergbanen Kongsvingerbanen Gjøvikbanen Oslo – Gjøvik – Dovrebanen Railway tunnel and new T-bahntunnel under Oslo centre Fornebubanen A-husbanen Connection between Follobanen and Alnabru Jærbanen Ofotbanen Ringeriksbanen Sandvika – Hönefoss Østfoldbanen Östre line Sørwestbanen Porsgrund – Brokelandsheia Bergensbanen Sørlandsbanen Gamle hålbanen’ Proposal No. The government is asked to set up an infrastructure fund of 500 billion. That's 75 pst. the return is earmarked for socio-economic profitable road projects and 25 pst. the socio-economical profitability of railway projects.’;» Proposal No. 5 sounds ‘The Government is asking the Government to reorganise the current Ministry of Transport to a Ministry of Transport responsible for everything in the field of transport by land, water and air, as well as all activities which are a natural part of the transport activity, including port activities.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a State Transport Authority responsible for the control of all transport by land [[road and rail]] Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a plan for improving the efficiency of the Road Directorate/State Road Service in the ordinary budget for 2014.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward by the government to transfer the county roads from the counties to the state and the municipality, where the roads previously classified as other national roads are transferred back to the state and other roads are distributed between the state and the municipalities.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to ensure that ferry services classified as national road haulage operators receive full State funding from the State budget, including ferries reclassified after the administrative reform from national road haulage operators to state road hauliers.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government is asked to amend the guidelines for ferry relief projects in order to cover the total cost of financing for up to 50 years below.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The Government requests the extension of ongoing free ferry trials to include one of the current major national ferry services for a period of 2 years and points in particular to the Halhjem-Sandvikvåg ferry service at E39 in Hordaland.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a case for the government to collect tolls in existing toll companies, as well as for financing of the annual government budgets so that the collection of tolls ceases immediately.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a complete survey of gross tolls, collection costs, financing costs and net tolls to the Norwegian Toll Project each year.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to file a case to abolish legal access to toll collection on public roads.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to dimension new safe Norwegian motorways to a maximum speed limit of 130 km/h.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to improve the organisation and coordination of express buses in each transport corridor.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that no dividends are received from Avinor AS in the NTP period 2014-2023.’ Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘During 2014, the Government asks the Government to present its own notification on the modernisation of Norwegian aviation policy based on the ‘Norwegian aviation strategy’ of June 2008 and submitted reports on aviation safety in Norwegian aviation.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present a national port strategy setting out a smaller number of national ports linked to the national road network’. Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make a significant reduction in the planning time for transport projects with the aim of reducing the planning time to three years’.» Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to apply State regulation to all motorway sections of NTP 2014-2023.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the unexploited use of public–private cooperation based on state full funding.’ [[OPS]] Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present its own case during 2014 on the use of new funding solutions to ensure State financing of investments in the transport sector.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to include travel time predictability in the country’s guides in socio-economic analyses.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the purchase of domestic sea-based freight capacity by the government to increase the transition from land-based to sea-based freight.’ Proposal No. 30 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government for full competition in all Norwegian routes currently operated by the NSB and to make appropriate proposals to the Stortinget.’ Proposal No. 31 sounds: «The government asks the government to organise the Coastal Agency as a state enterprise [[SF]] Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘The government is asking for new ring road solutions around the largest cities.’ Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for state full financing of the urban packages in the four largest cities.’ Proposal No. 35 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the unexplored construction of roads in several planes to expand road capacity in particular in and around the largest cities.’ Proposal No. 36 sounds: «The government is asked to amend the scheme of the public transport reward scheme in order to allocate it to urban areas on application, but without requiring local measures financed by tolls and restrictions on local driving. The government is asked to ensure that the reward scheme appears as a reward for new measures in the field of public transport in order to increase the collective share and the number of passengers transported, especially during the rush period and with supporting evidence on the road and at the end of the contract.» Proposal No. 37 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the government to extend the system of state purchases of passenger transport by train to the annual government budget by the general government purchase of passenger transport, irrespective of the means of transport in the four largest cities, under budget chapter 1330 Special transport measures. [[Ch. 1351]] The budget calls for such an extended scheme to be put in place from the state budget for 2014.’» Proposal No. 38 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the Urban Environment Agreements Programme under the National Road Investment Financial Framework according to Table 7.4 of new NTP 2014-2023 to be used for investment in the national road network in the four largest cities with a focus on measures that increase the accessibility of general and public transport in particular, and for the purchase of public transport by the State by 50 pst. for each purpose.’» Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government requests the inclusion of capacity-enhancing measures in public transport such as, inter alia, the project ‘Spontaneous interconnection in Bergen’ in the allocation of funds from respectively. Remuneration and Urban Environment Packages.’» Proposal No. 40 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to coordinate the Urban Railway Project in Bergen, cf. St. pp. [[2004-2005]] No 75 and Inn. [[2005-2006]] S. No 94 Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government through dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo to ensure that Alnabru is primarily developed as a logistics hub, both national, regional and local.’ Proposal No. 42 sounds: ‘The Government requests the periodic approval of the road network in Norway and a clearly defined State legal liability in the Road Traffic Act for accidents caused by bad roads.’ Proposal No. 43 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a fully funded Oslofjord link between Østfold and Vestfold to replace the Moss-Horten ferry link, with the objective of completion by the end of NTP 2014-2023.’ Proposal No. 44 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the E18 Ruggvedt – Dørdal is expanded with the full 23-meter road width required by the police, fire services, the State Road Service and the E18 Action Group.’ Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a 100 million increase in the 2014-2017 framework. crowns, so as to avoid stopping in the expansion of rv. 9 through Seatsdal.’» Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The Government requests the start of the construction of the City Ship Tunnel in 2014 based on the ‘Large Tunnel’ option with State full funding.’ Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a continued project for the modernisation and efficiency of the transport network in triangle Hamar-Skien-Halden based on State project financing and with a time perspective 2014-2043.’ [[Austrian package]] Proposal No. 49 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the development of rail-based collective actions in and around the major cities is coordinated with the Railway Agency, and that such development is part of the development of a traffic nodal point where several modes of transport are directly linked. The government is asking the government to present its own case on this matter.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e6552	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 19, 20, 22, 28, 32 and 47, from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government is asking for a significant reduction in ‘security costs’ at Norwegian airports over the next few years and to give the Stortinge feedback in an appropriate manner on the results of this work.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a full review of the fees and charges of maritime transport, with a view to simplifying and reducing the overall level to enhance the relative competitiveness of maritime transport.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit a plan to strengthen oil protection equipment, including depot equipment, shipwreck handling and routine clean-up actions’.» Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asked to explain measures to eliminate the maintenance run on the network and the link between the maintenance situation and the work on punctuality on the rail in the context of the ordinary State budget for 2014.’» Proposal No. 32 sounds: «The government asks the government to submit a case concerning municipal responsibility for the public transport of Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim as already in Oslo.» Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to bring forward a new case for the Storting so that the development of the entire InterCity triangle can be realised by 2025.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e6597	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 53 and 55-81, from the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 53 sounds: ‘The Government requests the following OPS projects to be launched by the Government during the upcoming NTP period: 1. E18 Oslo-Asker [[in appropriate sections]] Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to design the car charges so that they encourage environmentally friendly and safe transport.’ Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the prioritisation of freight trains and long-distance trains on the network between 1 p.m. 6 p.m. and 5 p.m.’ Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to dimension all new railway extensions for 250 km/h.’ Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to launch the tower services and to establish stronger Nordic cooperation for the en route services.’ Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The government is asking to contribute to the promotion of competitive aviation, especially where aviation does not have more environmentally friendly competitors.’ Proposal No. 61 sounds: ‘The Government requests that ships at berth in public ports be required to use shore-side electricity where available.’ Proposal No. 62 sounds: «The government is asking the Government to modernise the Railway Agency by transforming the company into a state company with a professional construction and train manager function. Ownership of infrastructure, stations and highways is transferred to this company.» Proposal No. 63 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to transform the State Road Administration into a state-owned company and to cultivate the company’s building contractor.’ Proposal No. 64 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of roadside supervision independent of existing modes of transport and assign this responsibility for the supervision of both roads and vehicles.’ Proposal No. 65 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to establish instruments to measure the development of the collective offer, so as to facilitate the comparison of the results of the metropolitan regions with each other’. Proposal No. 66 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to plan for the full development of the InterCity routes in the Eastern region, to give priority to crossing tracks on important freight and rail transport in and around the major cities.’ Proposal No. 67 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the development by 2030 of a sustainable collective network based on the smartest transport solutions, innovative and environmentally friendly technologies, easily accessible to all.’ Proposal No. 68 sounds: ‘The government asks it to make it attractive for municipalities to facilitate intermodal transport by establishing a system for simplifying the transition from one mode of transport to another.’ Proposal No. 69 sounds: ‘The government is asked to have a stepping-up plan to ensure the state allocations to the public networks of the metropolitan regions.’ Proposal No. 70 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate its own urban core cycle expressive routes and centralised industries.’ Proposal No. 71 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present an action plan for increased cycling among children and young people.’ Proposal No. 72 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to establish a State reward scheme for the route and cycle.’ Proposal No. 73 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the construction of several pitfalls, for the construction of already planned pitfalls and for the reduction of the traffic volume threshold required for a road to be equipped with a mid pulley, preferably to 6000 ÅDT’.» Proposal No. 74 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a new port grant scheme. The scheme shall be managed by the Coastal Works.’.» Proposal No. 75 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case for exploiting the possibilities of intelligent transport systems in the transport sector, for example for road safety and public transport.’ [[ITS]] Proposal No. 76 sounds: «The government is asked to include housing development as a documented criterion in the Public Transport Reward Scheme and/or the forthcoming urban packages.» Proposal No. 77 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an obligatory financing for key public transport solutions in the major cities, preferably by providing State investment grants in accordance with the principle of consistent co-financing of local subsidies. [[50/50 distribution]] Proposal No. 78 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present its own case for measures to increase the use of alcohol.’ Proposal No. 79 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit to the Storting a strategy and financing plan for electric car charging stations and infrastructure.’ Proposal No. 80 sounds: ‘The Government is asking for all new taxis, ferries, scheduled boats and diesel trains to operate on zero-emission or climate-neutral fuels by the end of 2022.’ Proposal No. 81 sounds: ‘The government is asking for all new municipal, county and state vehicles to run on CO2-free or CO2-neutral fuel by the end of 2018.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e6811	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 50-52, 54 and 82, from the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 50 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a significant reduction in the planning time for transport projects, primarily with the aim of halving time use.’ Proposal No. 51 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote a case that presents different solutions for the future adoption by the Storting of national plans with objectives, framework, actions and funding, and how the trade unions can assume responsibility for details and implementation.’ Proposal No. 52 sounds: ‘The government is asking for road and rail to be built more quickly by reducing planning time, better coordinating objections and organising major road and rail developments as its own projects where public-private cooperation is used as an implementation strategy.’ Proposal No. 54 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to explore the possibilities to reduce the cost of capital and the borrowing burden of OPS and toll projects, preferably by providing companies with access to government loans under market conditions, State refinancing guarantees under market conditions or other targeted measures where the country’s creditworthiness is used to reduce financing risk.’; Proposal No. 82 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to consider City Ship Tunnel as a OPS project’.» The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e6851	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to introduce tax exemptions for collective cards paid by employers.» The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e6868	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the Government to modernise and revise the Ports Act in order to allow ports to be organised as limited liability companies.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7030	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of I to XXV and XXVII. The President makes it clear that it is the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party that are behind the vote. The President has understood that the Left supports the setting. The President assumes that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre want to vote against. The vote boards showed that there were 55 votes against and 47 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 00.21.30]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7041	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7046	The Committee's position on I-XXV and XXVII by 54 to 48 is therefore not accepted. The opinion shall be put to the vote on the position of the Committee to be adopted on XXVI. It is still the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party that are behind the position. The President assumes that the Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party and the Left want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7063	The opinion shall be put to the vote on the opinion delivered by the Committee on XXVIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7077	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7085	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to propose the financing and implementation of an immediate plan for simple, capacity-enhancing road projects in the Oslo area, measures that can be implemented quickly and reasonably.’ The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7107	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7115	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to increase the framework for the period 2014-17 in order to avoid a halt in the development of RVs. 9 through Seatsdal.’» The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7137	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward, from Mr Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7145	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1-4, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to explore the coast road in Finnmark’. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an outbound coastal road in Troms’. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government asks the government to explore the coast road in Northern Ireland.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a route to the coast of Sogn and Fjordane.’ The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7184	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7192	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals with a comprehensive review of the maritime transport charging policy, in order to improve and simplify the framework conditions for short sea shipping.’ Proposal No. 2 reads: ‘The government is asked to provide a short-haul communication, which will provide a broad presentation of the challenges for Norwegian maritime transport and a presentation of measures to improve the framework conditions for industry.’ Proposal No. 3 reads: ‘The government is asking the Government to raise the position of maritime transport in the national transport plan and to promote more concrete measures to strengthen maritime transport of goods.’ The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7226	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7234	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to submit proposals for state full financing of the exceedances of the Oslo package 3. ‘... The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7256	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7264	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to return to Stortinget with concrete measures for how the government intends to recover the losses on the national and county roads’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to fix a date on which the due date of the national and county road network is to be removed.’ The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7293	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7301	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Party of Progress. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to incorporate full State funding for the continuation of the Bergen Programme for Transport, Urban Development and Environment into the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023.’ The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7323	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7331	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Party of Progress. The proposal reads: ‘1. The majority asks the government to approve the construction of project-free E39 as described in the main report dated December 2012. It is done outside the framework of the new National Transport Plan 2014-2023 and with clear, predictable, long-term government funding for the project. 2nd@item: inlistbox The government is asking for the project organisation of project free E39 as described in the main report dated December 2012, through the establishment of a separate company. 3rd@item: inlistbox The government is asking for a start-up project in 2013 and a target for completion of 15 years. 4th@item: inlistbox The government is asking the government to assume that the line selection for ferries-free fjord crossing respects the main objectives of the project of reduced transport time while giving the most effect on regional labour market regions. 5th@item: inlistbox The government is asked to base the use of state regulatory plans to reduce planning time and to ensure that tendering rounds are carried out with the broad participation of large international construction companies. 6th@item: inlistbox The size asks the government to base annual reporting on progress; the first time about start-up, funding and organisation. The left has announced that they support the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7371	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7379	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposal of the Party of Progress. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to incorporate funds for the necessary racial protection and traffic protection of E16 between Bergen and Voss in the revised national budget for 2013 and the ordinary government budget for 2014 through a combination of racial and maintenance funds. The government is asking for priority to be given to the route during the first part of the 2014-2017 planning period, both in terms of race protection/traffic safety and the work to speed up the start of a new route for E16 between Bergen and Voss. ‘... The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7401	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7431	Alternatively, points 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the Committee's position shall be replaced by the proposals of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The size approves the construction of the Stordal Tunnel at E134 in Hordaland as mentioned in Prop. [[2012-2013]] 156 S Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size does not authorise the collection of tolls for the transport package for the Kristiansand region. The size suggests that the necessary development of existing and former national roads is financed by the State. Necessary State funding will be incorporated into the State budget for 2014.’» The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7456	The Committee shall also vote against paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 of this Article.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7470	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Svein Fleet on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is called upon to review, by the autumn of 2014, the toll charges for E18 for the whole of the Gulli-Langange route, based on the interest conditions of the toll company, increased collection time to 20 years and the possibility of derogating from the equal mileage requirement for the whole route in order to reduce traffic leakages at the most vulnerable locations. ‘... The left has announced their support for the proposal. The voting boards showed that 76 votes were cast against the proposal and 26 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 00.30.39]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7493	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7498	Harald Green confirms that you have voted incorrectly. 77 votes against the proposal and 25 votes in favour. That being the case, the proposal has been rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7513	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, which reads: «The size permits the development of E18 on the Bommestad-Sky route in Westfold as mentioned in Prop. [[2012-2013]] 123 S The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7535	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to file a State sale and listing of NSB during 2013.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government to consider whether to separate NSB Buss from a separate company sold separately in the context of a sale in the NSB.’; Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to sell out all the non-necessary property of the NSB in order to safeguard the core business of the company.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7595	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The amount does not consent to the tolling company being allowed to extend the tolling related to project rv. 23 Oslofland compound in Akershus and Buskerud. The size assumes that the necessary extension of this link must be secured and implemented with full State funding.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide funds for equipment and industrial fire engine to Søndre Follo fire service, so that the drivers to drive in these hazardous tunnels know that the fire service has the best equipment available for incidents in the tunnel’.» Alternatively, there is a vote between the proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7620	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7637	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1-3, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The size does not approve the financing of the Trondheim stage 2 package as described and explained in Prop. 172 S [[2012-2013]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size assumes that national road actions in Trondheim are financed by state resources through national transport plans and annual government budgets, with an advance, if necessary, in order to keep planned progress on the projects.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The financial contribution assumes that Trondheim will receive a State contribution to this through the public transport schemes in urban areas.’ Alternatively, they vote between the proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7670	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e7997	In this case, Robert Eriksson has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘II The following changes are being made to the 2013 government budget: Expenditures611Pensions from government cashassets2260000budgets2290000budgets2290000budgets2290000budgets2290000budgets2290000budgets2290000budgets2300000budgets237000000budgets8 579000000budgets911000000budgets916000000budgets2120000budgets2290000budgets2290000budgets2290000budgets210000000budgets237000000budgets8 579000000budgets816000000budgets8160000budgets81000budgets81000budgets81000budgets81000budgets81000budgets81000budgets81000budgets81000budgets81000budgets81000budgets81000budgets81000budgets81000budgets81000budgets8160000budgets81000budgets81000budgets8110000budgets81000budgets81000budgets81600000budgets81600000budgets81600000 to €81600000 to €8 1160000 to €8 1160000 to €8 116000 to €81000000 to €8 116000 to €8 10000000,11000000,11000000,11000000 to €81000budgets8 10000000,11000000 to €81000budgets81000 to €81000budgets81000budget worth81000 to €81000 to €81000budgets81000budgets81000budgets81000budget worth81000budget,11 billion to €81000budget,11 billion to €8
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e8504	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e8509	The President suggests that we take the vote on this matter again, because now there were several who discovered that they had voted incorrectly. Then there is a revoting of proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9103	A total of 13 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-12, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Amendment No 13, from Torbjørn Røe Isaksen on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 13, by the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, have been tabled during the debate and, consequently, after the deadline laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament for submitting proposals to be put to the vote. However, the second paragraph of Section 38 of the Rules of Procedure provides for the possibility of voting if the Storting does not oppose it. In this context, the President will propose that the proposal be put to the vote. – It seems to be a connection to it. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 and 8, from the left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out an overall review of the Working Environment Act and to make proposals that make the Working Environment Act more timely, simpler, more flexible and that treat all activities and employment as closely as possible.’ Proposal No. 8 reads: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals for a change to the Working Environment Act that will make it possible for employers and employees to agree on Sunday work adapted to local needs and needs.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9136	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2 and 6 from the left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to initiate work with a view to proposing amendments to the legal framework for the equalisation of temporary employment in the Working Environment Act and the Civil Service Act.’ Proposal No. 6 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals for clarifying the provisions of the Working Environment Act on what is meant by ‘independent position’ [[excepted by the Working Environment Act on Working Time/Overtime, etc.]] Here the Christian People’s Party has announced that they support the proposals. The proposals No. were not contested. 2 and 6 from the left. Voting at the end of the meeting on 19 June 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9153	We have submitted a list with regard to our representatives on what to vote, if the proposals are to be dealt with individually, inter alia. in the case of proposal No. 1, so I suggest the president take it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9158	Proposal No. 1 was not on the list from the Right. I've seen the list myself. However, the representative believes that it was desirable that the Right should be given the opportunity to vote in favour of proposal No. 1? As far as I know, none of the warnings I'm going to refer to are taken up from the pulpit, at least not all. Some of them have lived in writing, and proposal No. 1 was not on that list. But we'd like to do it again, so that's a proper expression of the parties' attitude. We then go back and start voting on the proposal we have received again. That means we have to separate proposal No. 1 and proposal No. 8, because I still understand that the Right will not vote in favour of proposal No. Eight?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9163	Then you haven't seen the list that's lived in.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9168	I can confirm that Harald Green came with the list in his hand, and I've seen it. So the list is delivered. But then we have to make an explanation of vote along the way. We were supposed to re-take the proposals No. 1 and 8 from the left. If you want to vote in favour of those proposals, you take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9171	Yeah, both...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9176	Yes, but we can't have a debate right now. If I can get an explanation of vote for each proposal, yes or no, we will be able to carry out this vote during the night. Is it right that we should vote on both proposal No. 1 and proposal No. 8 again?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9179	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9184	Then there is again voting on the proposals No. 1 and 8, from the left. Here, the Right has announced that they want to vote in favour of the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9196	The proposals are then put to the vote. 3 to 5 and 7, from the left. Proposal No. 3 reads: «The government asks the government to propose amendments to Section 14-9 of the Working Environment Act to allow a general access to temporary employment for up to 12 months, but that the maximum duration be reduced simultaneously from today 4 to 2 years and that it is clarified in the law that the employer cannot replace an employee by hiring a new employee to carry out the same work after the end of the temporary period.» [[§ 14-9, fifth paragraph]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to simplify and amend the Working Environment Act § 10-5 to make the rules on average working time more user-friendly, more open to individual agreements that ensure locally adapted solutions and as much as possible equalise businesses with and without collective agreements.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to propose the repeal of the Working Environment Act § 10-12, fourth paragraph, that trade unions with so-called suspension rights under the Labour Dispute Act and the Services Dispute Act may conclude collective agreements which derogate from some other provisions of the Working Environment Act.» Proposal No. 7 reads: ‘The government asks the government to define night work for work between 1 p.m. and 7 p.m. 10 a.m. and 8 p.m. 6:00 a.m. and propose amendments to the Working Environment Act in line with this.» Here the Right has notified that they support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9221	I may have delivered a very unclear note, but it is quite the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9226	This means that the Right now warns that they do not want to vote in favour of the proposal No. 3 to 5 and 7. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9229	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9234	No one else has announced support for these proposals, and we are going to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9246	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 11, from the left. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to strengthen the Working Environment Act in order to legislate alerts’ rights under the Working Environment Act.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose to legislate rights relating to the permit.’ The Progress Party and the Christian People’s Party have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9261	The right shall also vote in favour of the proposals No. 9 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9266	Then the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote in favour of the proposals No. 9 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9278	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. Ten and twelve from the left. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals for the establishment of an alert unit under the Labour Inspectorate. The unit should be a warning point receiving and recording alert cases. The unit should aim to enter into a dialogue situation with the parties involved, but should also be empowered to intervene in establishments, provide clarification on the circumstances in which sanctions are being notified to the employer. The majority asks the government to evaluate the unit after two years to see if the unit is functioning according to its intention.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to make proposals to make the positive instruments of the IA Agreement, such as organising grants, grants for occupational health services and permanent contact persons in the labour centres, applicable to all establishments and all employees irrespective of whether they have entered into a collective agreement.’ The Progress Party and the Right have announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9291	No, we have to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9296	Then the Progress Party has notified that they support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9312	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 13, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:65 S [[2012-2013]] The President assumes that the Left will now support the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party. - It's nodding.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9334	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals on equal rights to basic pension/guarantee pension in public security regardless of civil status and spouse’s/partner’s income.’ An alternative vote is taken between the vote and this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9347	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9365	In the course of the debate, all nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3-9, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3, 4, 6, 7 and 9 of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to propose that today’s Nav partnership be changed to bring together the State and Municipalities, and that Nav be transformed into a single State entity by the end of 2014. This implies, inter alia, that municipal social assistance is made a state responsibility under Nav, and that norms are introduced equally across the country, that responsibility for the qualification programme is returned from the municipalities to Nav.’ 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to submit the necessary proposals to ensure the return of competence and decision-making powers to the Nav local authority in respect of the ‘user’ benefits. This implies a new division of tasks that ensures a clear interface so that the different levels know what to do within the different performances.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals on how users are guaranteed the right to change supervisors in the Employment and Welfare Act, and for users to be able to change their Nav office in very special cases.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make proposals that ensure a comprehensive strategy of competence for the Employment and Welfare Act and that the Stortinge is informed through the annual budget proposals.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit proposals for new and binding processing deadlines within Nav's performance management.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9416	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 8 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to promote the necessary proposals to bring together small Nav offices and to build the new units on the natural labour market regions and natural cooperation regions between municipalities.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a public body mandated to review current Nav performances and action chains. [[NUE]] The committee is also given a mandate to submit proposals on how to simplify current legislation and the system of measures to ensure reduced red tape, faster procedures and better user follow-up, as well as to ensure greater access for business to skilled labour.» The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9440	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from, the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for proposals to be presented by the Government to ensure faster and more efficient procedures for disabled persons in need of assistance, as well as proposals for simplification for the maintenance and repair of the facilities already granted.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9457	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘By the end of 2013, the Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the creation of the Nav Ombudsman by model from the Patient and User Ombudsman.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9476	The Progress Party has announced that they want to vote against it. The voting boards showed that 76 votes were cast in favour and 25 votes against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 00.47.06]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9485	President! I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9490	Tonight, the representative Serigstad Valen voted wrong himself. Then we'll correct it. The number of votes shall then be 77 votes in favour and 24 votes against. The Committee’s position was thus endorsed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9500	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Tove Linnea Brandvik on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:112 S [[2012-2013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9506	Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9514	The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the vote, and the Left has announced that they support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9531	In the course of the debate, eleven proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-11, from Torbjørn Røe Isaksen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to go through the Nav Target Management Code with a view to establishing fewer and clearer objectives, building on the intention of more people to participate in the labour market.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to establish methodological tools for measuring the impact of labour market measures. The impact assessment should include information on transfer to regular work after completion of the action, as well as whether a former measure participant remains in work after three and five years respectively.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the implementation of clearer requirements for providers of back-up services, including an assessment of how companies that fail to deliver satisfactory results are to be followed up.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the efforts to read and write training under the auspices of Nav and the Apparatus.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present a case to ensure that all good forces are used to give young people the opportunity to participate in the labour market. The scheme should be set up along the following lines: Nav draws up a list of authorised facilitators in the public, private and non-profit sectors. A system is set up in which those who transmit Nav users to work receive a fee. The grant scheme should be designed in such a way that the activity is rewarded if it is working after three years and five years respectively.’ 6 reads: ‘The government asks the government to present a case on how social entrepreneurs can be more widely used as suppliers to the public.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: «The government is asked to pay a fixed-term labour tax deduction on transition from social security to work.» Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to present an action plan containing measures to halt the growth of young people.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to present a case reviewing all social assistance benefits for young people, including personal assistance and housing support for young people living with their parents or guardians, in order to ensure that the schemes encourage employment or education.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government is asked to promote a case for the review of all wage subsidies schemes, including temporary wage subsidies [[CHUCKLES]] Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The Government is asked to propose a simplified and reinforced scheme for the organisation of grants for disabled persons.» Alternatives are proposed between these proposals and the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9603	The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9620	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Sylvi Graham, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to make the necessary proposals to put an end to the compulsory retirement of employees who have crossed the special age limit in State companies and undertakings in which the State is the sole owner or the majority owner.» The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9650	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, and from the Right, saying, ‘The government is asked to submit a specific review of the specific age limits in the public and private sectors, as required by the pension reform, during the 1st half of 2014.’» The left has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9672	A total of 14 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-14, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up grant schemes for voluntary organisations providing leisure services to poor and disadvantaged children.’ 2 reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all children from economically disadvantaged families have access to equipment loans for leisure activities and similar experience cards organised either under the government or under the authority of voluntary organisations.’ 3 reads: ‘The government asks the government to make proposals to strengthen inclusion measures under the auspices of non-governmental organisations and municipalities.’ 4 reads: ‘The government is asking for proposals to offer free kindergarten to all children of refugees where both parents participate in the introduction programme.’ 5 says: «The government is asking the government to make proposals to strengthen the provision of children and young people affected by poverty and poor growth and living conditions in municipalities with major urban problems.» 6 reads: ‘The government is asked to submit a stepping-up plan for mental health protection for children and young people.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate increased availability and regular opening hours for school health services and health centres.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is calling for much greater use of social entrepreneurship in the fight against child poverty.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for greater coordination between child protection and Nav to ensure that children’s protection does not fall outside the labour force during the transition to adult age’.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the provision of advice and guidance to people with financial problems.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals for legislative changes so that municipalities cannot shorten their parents’ social assistance when they have children under 18 who live at home and who have their own income below the tax free income limit.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a pilot project to be launched with the aim of strengthening cooperation between labour market enterprises’ education and secondary schools. The purpose of such a project shall be to capture students at risk of falling out of the ordinary school cycle.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to launch a pilot project between Nav and the food industry, where young people who have graduated from secondary education are given the opportunity to qualify through the industry schools of the food industry.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the launch of a three-year country-wide ‘summer job project’, following a model from Kristiansand Municipality, targeted at young people aged 16-22 with a need for special follow-up, where young people have either fallen out of high school and/or been in contact with child protection or social services.’ Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9752	The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9769	A total of 27 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 5-8, by Robert Eriksson, on behalf of the Progress Party, on the proposals No. 9–13, from Laila Davøy on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals 14–27, from Borghild Tenden on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1-13 is included in the vote and proposals No. 14-27 is distributed in the hall. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 14-27, from the left. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a national minimum standard of social assistance for living that is priced each year. [[(excl. (dwelling costs)]] This standard should be equivalent to the State Institute for Consumer Research's research-based standard for a decent living.» [[SIFO]] Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a scheme for the purchase of dwellings, where a rented municipal dwelling can be paid down through rent and be owned in the long term. [[by Danish model]] The government further requests the government to contribute to the construction of several rental dwellings, where a share of them becomes home-buying dwellings.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the maintenance of child protection as a universal scheme, but differentiates it on the basis of income in such a way that child protection becomes more targeted, fair and redistributive so as to increase low-income child welfare while those with high income receive less net child protection.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asked by the government to decide by means of a change in regulations that low-income dependants are to pay the rate of the maximum residence payment in the case of kindergartens and SFO’.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the free core time scheme for children in kindergartens in areas with relatively over-representation of poor children’.» Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen municipal child protection and to increase the quality of child protection training.’ Proposal No. 20 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the school health service.’ Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the care allowance scheme for parents with sick/disabled children.’ Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government requests the extension of the free health care scheme, including dental health for children from 16 to 18 years of age.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate low-threshold psychological services in the municipal health service with State subsidies.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the programme of basic competences in the labour market.’ Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The government is asking for further improvements in the legislation of self-employed persons whose liabilities are linked to their business activities.’ Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the financial advisory service in Nav.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review the qualification programme with a view to making it less arbitrary and more targeted towards vulnerable groups.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9870	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9-12 from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The government is asked to propose that child welfare and cash support be excluded from the measurement of social assistance.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to propose a maximum payment of 40 pst for dependants with income below 2 G. the applicable maximum child garden payment rate and the payment for SFO space may not exceed 40 pst. of the same amount for the same group.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government asks the government to propose exemptions from the prob lems of health services for persons in households with a total income of less than 2 G.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government is asked to propose exemptions from the prob lems of dental services for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, persons in qualification programmes and persons in municipal action.» The voting boards showed that 93 votes were cast against and 6 votes in favour of the proposals. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 00.51.59]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9899	President! My voice was not registered.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9904	My voice was not registered either.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9909	So let's do that again. It is good that it is followed that the screen responds to the given voice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9923	There is a vote on proposal No. 13, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for strengthening the free legal aid system.’ The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9940	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-8, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking that caregivers in institutions receiving home services, mental - health psyches and other groups entitled to public dental care be given an unconditional right to dental care.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a compulsory dental check at the first year of school.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government requests that patients with particularly high dental costs related to disease and treatment in the oral cavity be included in the self-participation 2 scheme.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asking for proposals to include single persons with income equal to or less than the minimum pension in force at all times and persons in households with a total income below 2 G, in the self-employment benefit scheme 2.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9972	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to propose to increase the cash support until the child is 3 years old.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e9987	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to propose several labour market measures, in particular designated disabled persons.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to propose improved low-threshold housing under the direction of the Husbank and to step up efforts to follow-up and subsidise local authorities and non-governmental organisations.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a sound framework for debt advice by non-governmental organisations.’ The left has announced that they want to support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-18.ana.ud792e10036	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
