ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e29	Honourable co-representatives! Former representative of the Central Party in South Trundellag Oddbjørn Hågård is dead, 72 years old. With him, the Center Party has lost an unreasoning supporter and trusted. Hågård was educated in agriculture. He worked a few years as a teacher and was a pet consultant. He was a magistrate both in Åfjord, in Røros, and in Orland. Local politics engaged him strongly, and he was a member of a number of councils and committees, a member of local government and chairmanship. Hågård was rapporteur in Ørland for eight years from 1976 to 1983. Oddbjørn Hågård was alternate to Stortinget for four years before he was elected as permanent representative of Sør-Trøndelag in 1985. In the four years he was on the Stortinget, he was a member of the Agriculture Committee. He appeared as a solution-oriented and strong voice for agriculture and for the Centre Party. Oddbjørn Haågård never forgot where he came from or who he represented when he was elected to the Stortinget. The Ørlanden placed himself among the footmen of the party, and he followed the same attitude as the magnification representative. Many thought of Haågård as a quiet voice in the big debates, but both here in the hall and in the newspapers he was heard and noticed when he took the floor. Oddbjørn Haågård was perceived as a man with clear opinions. His supporters described him as «serious, honest and honest. A man of great expertise’. Agriculture policy was and became Oddbjørn Hågård's main campground. He expressed concern that it was the Ministry of Finance that directed agricultural policy – not the Ministry of Agriculture. Oddbjørn Haågård thrives in companies with the «near things». As a big representative, he was asked what gave him the great experiences of life. Then he said, "It always gives his own feeling to get to the Walset and see the narrow stripe of houses outside by the fjord." We thank Oddbjørn Hågård for his work and brighten the peace of his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e52	The representatives Henning Skumsvoll and Eirik Sivertsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The representative, Ulf Leirstein, will present six proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e63	On behalf of the representatives of Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Åse Michaelsen, Per Sandberg and myself, I am delighted to make proposals on the action plan against begging, further proposals on the introduction of a job guarantee for police students who have passed the Police College, further proposals on the immediate implementation of the Penal Code and proposals on a worthy compensation for victims of violence. On behalf of the representatives of Per Sandberg, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, Åse Michaelsen, Morten Ørsal Johansen and myself, I am delighted to propose an action plan to combat smuggling and illegal immigration and to propose an increase in the number and reform of Norwegian prisons.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e70	The representative, Bente Thorsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e73	On behalf of the representatives of Tord Lien, Mette Hanekamhaug and myself, I would like to make representations on the creation of real-time upper secondary schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e78	The representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e81	On behalf of the representatives Ib Thomsen, Christian Tybring-Gjedde, Peter N. Myhre and myself, I propose a long-term plan to solve the hospital challenges in the Oslo region. On behalf of the representatives Per Arne Olsen, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and myself, I propose to introduce a so-called ‘package course’ and faster treatment in cancer care according to the model from Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e89	The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e92	I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on behalf of myself on the equal right to an old-age pension regardless of the civil status and the spouse's income.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e97	The representative, Mr Øyvind Håbrek, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e100	On behalf of the representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, Ingunn E. Ulfsten, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and myself, I am delighted to promote representative proposals to remove the queues of the municipal schools of culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e105	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e121	The government likes to paint a rose-red picture of its own efforts in the field of transport and justifies this self-esteem with an increase in the level of appropriations in road and rail. This appears to be a cover of truth when we know that reality is a completely different one. A new report states that seven out of ten road and rail projects are delayed: «We are well aware that the increase in government appropriations does not immediately result in faster progress in adopted projects.» But the government doesn't want to talk about this. In the right, we are now very curious about how many of the projects were promised in 2005, which were promised again in 2009, which will once again be promised in the next national transport plan. We also wonder if the government is comfortable with these discouraging results. Another question we ask ourselves is where the money goes. The government believes that they will grant the money to do so, following the promises of the previous National Transport Plan. How, then, can seven out of ten projects be delayed? Earlier this week, the Railway Agency revealed that they have a target achievement in relation to the 20 pst action programme. by the action programme. The report from Analysis & Strategy shows that very many of the delays are about planning. Things are going too slow. We need a massive cleanup here. It is no wonder that we have too bad roads and a railway that is falling apart many places, when we despite a lot of money, cannot get the construction going. I will take a project that is close to my heart as an example – Follobanen. This project has been promised by various ministers in the current government since 2007, but still the spade is not stuck in the ground. Tunnel expansion is not yet under way. We know that maintenance equipment is being redispatched, and we were also told last week that Norwegian Railway operation seems to have to cancel almost a third of its staff. This is just a number in the range of railway maintenance companies that have had to cancel, deposit or have gone bankrupt in the last six months. In a democracy, it is essential that social policy and state institutions have confidence – not only in trust, but also in legitimacy. It's serious when Ola and Kari Nordmann experience that the promises given by the top team are not worth the paper it's written on, and the worst thing is when the agencies and government are unable to give any good reason for the delays, delays and the lack of action. So it's not just about money. But then you can say, is it about will? Or is it about ability? For the right hand side, we think the answer is in the last two options. It's probably hard to have big ambitions if you experience sitting in a government tied to hands and feet in terms of modernization and conversion. It is possible that much of the cause lies in the obvious private allergy that unfortunately has put our transport policy on hold for eight years. It's time to get speed on the construction of the railway and better roads again. New ideas, new and better solutions are needed. Etats must take advantage of the expertise that alternative and private environments can provide. Where municipalities want to discuss different approaches, they need to deal with them seriously and, where appropriate, to ensure that others do not have the best solutions, or better solutions, or to identify the way in which these environments may be wrong or have shortcomings in their approach. It doesn't just keep pulling the shoulders and rejecting and rejecting, as multiple instances say they actually experience today. Norway is not a larger country than the fact that alternative competences should be encouraged rather than rejected, even from those environments that do not necessarily have the same reality as their own. Learning that the critics are the best voices to check whether you are on the right track or on the wrong road is a gift more than an accident. For example, Norwegian municipalities report that the Railway Agency and the Swedish Road Administration do not respond well enough to their questions. Alternative environments such as Railconsult AS and Norsk Bane AS, together with Deutsche Bahn, receive e.g. missions from Norwegian municipalities in the run-up to spatial planning of new major infrastructure projects. My question to the government and the Council of State is: How will the government meet alternative competences as a enrichment, and ensure that this can contribute to giving us more and better roads – and a faster railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e152	Let me first point out that for state road and rail projects, the overall premise for the plan is not given by state agencies or independent trade unions, but by democratic processes of government and enlargement. Important national premises are established through the examination of the annual budgets of the Storting and the longer-term premises are made through the NTP Landfill Communication, the National Transport Plan. As a basis for NTP, a number of professional investigations are carried out, in which local and regional authorities have a considerable opportunity to make representations. The plan proposal from the transport centres and Avinor is sent out to the county councils and the major cities and, in addition, leads the government to further plan large investments as part of the external quality assurance system, known as KS1. All of this together creates good external quality assurance and good external input for the decisions taken later in government and largely. Both national, local and political authorities are involved. I interpret the interpellation primarily to address issues of planning and governance regarding the development of the transport network. But first let me say a little bit about the report that is referred to in the interpellation. It's ordered by the NHO, and says that seven out of ten projects are delayed. In my opinion, the report is concerned with methodological weaknesses and must be said to be misleading. This report combines what is foreseen in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 and the Roadmap of the State for the same period. The main message does not address the detailed opening time, only whether a project is to be completed during the first four-year period or during the last six-year period. The final date for completion is only expected to be clarified when the project is committed to the annual budgets or through the processing by the Storting of toll proposals. Nor is it clear what is meant by the term delay in the report. The report shall count a project as delayed if not all sub-projects are scheduled or completed as foreseen. If a project is extended or changed, e.g. if you choose to decide to build a double track instead of a crossing track, it is considered to be delayed because the original crossing track does not keep the original progress plan. Nor has it been taken into account that projects scheduled to be completed in the last part of the NTP period may continue to be fully implemented in line with NTP, the delay in starting the plant in relation to that provided for in the Road Service Action Plan for the period. In other words, a project may have delayed start-up, but be completed in due time, and nevertheless be counted as delayed in the report ordered by the NHO. It probably means little for road users if a project is based on a form at the end of the race if it is completed according to the prescribed plan. I guess that's what's important to most people. I would also like to point out that in the railway field, the report measures the implementation of an action plan that does not formally exist. It is true that an interim action programme for the railway was put in place, but shortly after the national transport plan 2010–2019 was presented, it became clear that the need for operation and maintenance was much greater than the railway system that the trade unions had estimated, and thus the action programme was never established. I think it makes little sense to measure the implementation of a provisional action programme which, from the outset, could not be implemented in the manner proposed by the Railway Agency. 80 pst. of the major projects covered by the National Transport Plan in 2010 started in a timely manner. However, it cannot be underestimated that some projects have been delayed. It has, among other things, background to the fact that there may have been a cost increase during the period. But the extent of delays is far from what the NHO report suggests. Work on the forthcoming NTP has been thorough, with planning bases and needs and costs estimates, and it will be able to reduce the number of delays in the years ahead. The representative Schou asks how the government will meet alternative skills, and make sure it can help give us more and better roads and a faster railway. For the road sector, there is a large national advisory market, and the Swedish Road Administration uses consultants for draft selection investigations, for planning according to the Planning and Building Act and for construction tasks. These consultants are to a large extent part of a larger international consultancy environment that can attract interdisciplinary international trade unions. They are also part of cooperative arrangements with other foreign and Norwegian companies, where the tasks were to do so. The railway system informs itself that both high-speed and intercity design investigations have used external consultants, such as Norconsult, COWI, Asplan Viak, Railconsult – referred to in the interpellation as one independent environment a wish to be withdrawn – Atkins and Vectura. These consulting environments have helped to provide the basis for the advice given by the Railway Agency to the Ministry of Transport. I believe that it is not true that alternative competencies are not used in the planning of projects. Railconsult is, as mentioned in the interpellation, exactly one of the consultants used by the Railway Agency. Nevertheless, it will always be so that it is the trade unions, the modes of transport, which are responsible for the recommendations then given to the Ministry of Transport and which the government in turn gives to the Stortinget. It is, as far as I know, very rare that municipalities engage private in the execution of land-use planning because they do not think the State Road Administration or the Railway Agency's offences have been sufficient. On the other hand, it is not unusual for different interest groups to use consultants to assist in the preparation of reports in order to better promote their views on the development of the transport system. In the type of interest groups, municipalities and counties may to some extent be included. It is neither possible nor desirable for the State Road Service and the Railway Agency to occupy all the necessary competences in carrying out the various investigations. I therefore understand that the agencies use external competence where they find it necessary. The choice of consultants is based on the existing public procurement legislation, i.e.: by competition in which all interested parties may make offers. I also welcome the fact that stakeholder organisations engage in external environments to investigate important issues that they believe are not adequately addressed by the work of state transport agencies. It is an important democratic opportunity that should lie there and that should be a premise for the debate as well. Then the interpellant also raised a number of questions that are not directly mentioned in the interpellant, including the interpellant. the question of what has become the concept of the opposition in Stortinget, namely ‘implementability’. I would like to mention that the two national transport plans presented by this government have had great ambitions – that is correct. It is also true that these ambitions have been implemented. The frameworks for the last two NTPs are met — in the latter part also being overfilled. Then I agree that it is very important to discuss in the future not only the question of what resources one spends — and the implementation of the resource — but also the question of how one gets more money back. The government has been very concerned about that, and the government will also be very concerned about the future. It is clear that when one invests as much resources in the transport sector as this government has done, one must also look at how one can get more out of each krona used in the sector. And we all know that there are major needs to be resolved in the transport sector, and that we will address in the national transport plan that will soon be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e188	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The right is constantly looking for new and better solutions, so that we can build continuously – at the right time and preferably under budget. I may be a little surprised by the lack of humility on the part of the government, when most of the posts are about to criticise or take down a report from the NHO, where the result in terms of the status of capacity-enhancing actions within the railway is that 91 pst. projects have actually been delayed. It is so clear and so overwhelming that I wonder a little about this lack of humility. It is important that democratic decisions are taken. I am well aware of the processes in municipalities and county municipalities, and there are municipalities that, together with business associations and also individually, engage in alternative skills because they feel that the solutions, the cooperation and the communication to be with the state levels are not present and do not respond well enough to what is desired. It's enough to mention the conditions around Follobanen, the east line. But we can go to many of the food associations that we have in our country, in Trondheim, Ålesund, Bergen, Haugesund, Stavanger, Kristiansand and Oslo, which had conferences in the middle of March, and which took up just these things. They say that they want to take a closer look at what's underpinned, among other things. The railway works' investigation into a future IC triangle around Oslo and a high-speed network between the largest cities in South Norway, and they want to bring this in for Focus, among others. They say that they like to have the intercity triangle, but they stress that at the same time, double tracks must be built for Halden, Lillehammer and Skien, and that it will be stopped in a future high-speed network that is also intended for freight and en route traffic. I am somewhat surprised that the Council of State is not more humble, and is not looking to find good and better solutions, when the reports available, so clearly show that the delays are present and large. I'll come back later with a further follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e201	I understand that the interpellant is not very satisfied with the explanations regarding the report, but I think it is important to have a report corrected that is obviously misleading. It is important to obtain the facts underlying the report. It is a strange assessment of the term ‘delay’ – I have to say – when it is counted as delayed if a start is delayed, but ends in time. The important thing for people is that the project is finished in time. There is a bit of a funny review of delays and delays, when an action programme that has not been adopted and when one also chooses to mix small and large projects. In the case of the projects that the Stortinget decided on in 2010 through the National Transport Plan, the figure is 80 pst. they have been put in place at the proper time. This does not mean that the government is satisfied with everything, because we want to reduce the number of delays further. We think it is important that a person should start the projects in good time, that a person should have them implemented quickly, that a person should have a coherent development, and that one should also be completed in good time. So we're constantly looking for measures that can contribute to an improvement in that area. There has also been an important part of the underlying work ahead of the national transport plan that is soon to be submitted. So I have to say that sometimes there's a phrase from Peer Gynt that runs me a little bit in my mind: if I hit or hit, there's no problem. Because you tend to say that when there is too much policy, the trade unions will take more responsibility. But then there's a question mark about whether the trades are capable, and then there's going to be alternative environments. In my post I tried to make visible that the tradespeople use a lot of alternative environments, but it is clear that there is also a cost associated with it. And we have just received extensive criticism from the opposition for consulting in the State Road Administration. Consultant use is to a large extent the independent environments that the representative calls for in his interpellation. When we discuss this, we have to be able to expect a certain consistency in what it really is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e212	The representative of Schou's premiss for this interpellation, I'm not just unsure if I share – I'm very sure I don't share it. But I'm still glad that we get the opportunity to discuss the issues she's dealing with. I think we can safely say that all the parties in the Storting are interested in having planned and adopted projects implemented as quickly as possible, and I am also convinced that it is potential for improvement. We must constantly strive to make things more effective, while taking care of good processes, safe and feasible planning and construction of different projects. This debate is bordering on the debate we had on more efficient planning processes two days ago. The government's goal is to halve today's planning time and believe that it is realistic to achieve. So how can we ensure progress on adopted projects? I believe the Council of State answered well and explained well what I also think is a false premise for this interpellation. That seven out of ten projects adopted are delayed is a premise that the Right and the NHO do as best they can to get attached as a concept. However, as the Council of State also said, eight out of ten projects during this four-year period are under construction or are starting this year, and many of them will not be completed later than planned. The most important thing for the commuter or business manager is not if the spade is put in the ground in November or January, but when you can actually travel or transport your goods on the track or road. If it's the same time all the time, it's nonsense to discuss start-up. It is completion and when you can use the track or the road, which is essential. I understand that our political opponents use seven out of ten to talk down the government's attitude to culture, but it doesn't give a more accurate picture of that reason. Listening to Right speaking about the fact that the promises of the government parties in the national transport plan are not to be trusted is strange. It's strange to hear from a party that was not close to fulfilling their own plans when they were in government, when we now overcomply with our national transport plan. I must be allowed to say that when the interpellant asks for a humble state council, I would rather say that I heard a constructive state council in its response that is concerned with improvement, and I wonder if the interpellant and I actually heard the same answer. The interpellant is concerned with what she calls alternative competence. With that, I understand competence outside the floors. There are several environments outside the Railway Agency and the Vegvesenet that also have competences for use by the Norwegian Transport Agency, both Norwegian and foreign environments. I agree that it may be reasonable to draw exchangers on the competence they possess. The point is, as the Council of State has also said, that it is doing so today. An example is the expansion of E6 through the Gudbrand valley. It was recently known that Norconsult has been entrusted with a major task for the State Road Administration with the planning and design of E6 on the Elstad-Frya route. Railconsult, which was also referred to by the interpellant, has carried out various tasks for the Railway Agency. It is well possible that they should have had more, but it is not that the agencies do not avail themselves of the competence that exists outside their own ranks today. These are some – also people in this room – who call the purchase of consulting services with a critical voice. I have heard representatives present in the hall now, be very critical that the Road Administration or the Railway Agency, with all its employees, still buy extra help and external competence. That's exactly what the interpellant demand is. External environments of competence are being used today. I guess the question is whether we should have even more of that. I believe that we should facilitate the contribution of highly skilled environments in the field. With the ambitious plans that this government has for the development of transport, we're probably not going to get away from the fact that we have to use the expertise that exists to get the projects ready. But at the same time, I also believe that in the future, we will have robust professional environments in the floors that handle the brother. It is about synergies, economies of scale and competences, but also about economics. Where I believe we have a way to go – and for which we should facilitate – is to gain foreign competence. We are beginning to see that foreign competence environments seem to be an exciting country in which Norway can use its skills. We're looking at the expansion, where an Austrian company has one of three entry prices for road and rail construction along Mjösa. I think foreign environments had something to contribute to the planning and design phase. Deutsche Bahn has done a lot of research work on the railways, and parts of their competence and knowledge can be valuable in the large-scale railway development we are facing. The most important thing we can do is to bring forward future projects that seem attractive to foreign environments of competence, and we have to make sure that the agencies have an open attitude to harness that competence. But we still have to make sure that the seas are competent and robust. It is also a value over the years that you have that competence in your own ranks. Together with external competence, which can contribute to raising this professional environment further, we can get even more quickly and pave the way for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e235	It's an important interpellant that the interpellant picks up. Perhaps it was a pity that it arrived one day before a new national transport plan was presented. Most people may have their thoughts elsewhere and on what actually comes tomorrow. I just have to say that when I hear that the Council of State is trying to talk down the NHO report, just as she is trying to talk up her own government in terms of seven of the ten projects that are delayed, and the Council of State points out that there are some of these that have not started up according to the schedule, but that they are being implemented and completed when they are going to, then at least I know that there are projects where it says there are no local decisions and there is no planning. But what they really lacked was money to get the planning going, and it's the responsibility of the Council of State and the government to take care of it. This applies, inter alia, to: Dørdal–Ruchtvedt in Bamble, where the report actually states that there are no local decisions and planning resources, but in reality there was no money to start planning. The project should have started in 2013, and now it might start in 2014 – but maybe also in 2015. So it's long after what was actually adopted in the previous national transport plan, where it was adopted to start in 2013. The Council of State boasts and points out that the last two NTPs are met and even overfilled. They are met by 100.5 pst. That's 0.5 pst. overfill. I think it's right: you have to say that yes, that's right. The government has fulfilled in crowns, but not in relation to projects that should have been carried out, not in relation to the cost growth that has been both in terms of operation and maintenance and other areas. Then you have not fulfilled. It's just going out and looking at what's actually been done in relation to what you promised to do. So the Council of State was concerned about this with consultants, and that at least in the State Road Service it could look like it had been at the border of the conference. Between 2010 and 2012, the cost of consulting increased from 1.5 billion in 2012. DKK to SEK 2,4 billion. kr. That's an increase of 900 million. NOK 2 in 2 years. In addition, the State Road Administration has employed more than 200 people every year since 2008, culminating in 2012 in employing 380 people internally in its own organisation in addition to those who left the labour market. It shows that there are both a lot of people employed in the floors, and that at the same time you have spent a lot of money on consultants. Now I'm soon looking forward to seeing it in real terms in the form of new and real roads and railways. There it is still very late – 15 km of four-field highway in 2013 and 19 km with middle parts is not very much to shout for, given how many people you have now hired to follow up this. The Council of State also says that in 2010 it was 80 pst. of the projects started and implemented in accordance with the propulsion plan. That's good, but that means that one out of five projects are actually not according to the plan that the government itself has put in. So I think we have a lot to pick up by looking at how we streamline both planning and planning time. There it will be exciting to see what the government will bring tomorrow, if they reach the ambition to halve the planning time. It can be very exciting to see when the NTP is presented tomorrow, because the Council of State has promised that then all the proposals will come up on how to cut in planning time. I also find it exciting to see how to use private in a better way. I think there's a lot in that interpellant that we should look at, and if we can do even more for the money we have at our disposal. For the Advancement Party, it is important to use the money we have, in the most efficient and rational way possible, so that we get the most way and the railway for the money we spend. Then we have to apply new methods, which mean that we don't have to do with clandestine and shared expansion, but we really build – big projects. We know that planning 70 km takes almost as long as planning 6 km, so it's a lot to pick up and a great potential in a new, more efficient and rational planning.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e250	There is an important debate that is being debated today. It should interest everyone, both on the side of the opposition and on the side of the position, and it should also be interested out there. We can see that, among other things. in the newspapers today. At least we have one confession from the pulpit today. Although one disagrees with the Analysis & Strategy report for the NHO, it is at least said that 20 pst. of the projects are delayed. Eight of ten are in a path, but 20 pst. is delayed. This is the new information from here today. This is about the way we plan, and the way we build. The planning procedures and formalities we use are probably out of date. We know that there is a work going on on, we know that the previous Minister of Transport started a work to get down to planning time, and we are happy about that in the Right. We have thought that it must be possible to halve the planning time. The whole KVU and KS1 regime must be reformed. And then I want to point to the way we do it. What's a little funny is that this and the previous government had in their documents about how they would govern the country, a goal of using project finance. So we're talking about real project financing, project financing as we remember from the realization of Gardermoen Airport. We welcome it in the Right, we can even imagine that private companies could run such project companies. We think it could provide an additional incentive to speed up the completion of the projects and to promote more innovation in the projects. So the model that the OSL is built on should definitely be used. The funny thing is that a lot of people with a background in red-green politics here in the hall, politicians who have left the Stortinget, are now talking about it, but they're not getting a pass at them in their own parties that are back here. It's kind of eye-catching. In addition, we know that the government's offices are in charge of exactly the same thing. The railway system has recently said that the Alnabru Terminal should be expanded as an OPS project. Two words about the Railway Agency's action programme, since it was drawn into the debate: the Railway Agency claims that only 20 pst. the action programme has been implemented after four years. The problem with this is that there is a need for maintenance after the action plan set up, and it is starting to become critical, says our sources in the Railway Agency. The lack of maintenance affects both the quality, uptime and the professional environments involved. The money has simply gone to other purposes at the expense of maintenance. In the end, I want to focus on the last topic addressed in this interview, namely the conditions for independent competence in the transport sector. Here's innovation and innovation key. A sensible government administration would allow new ideas, innovation and innovation to develop and flourish. Not a bad word said about the Oil Directorate, but the amazing innovation and innovation we've seen on the offshore side, oil and gas, which has brought us all the way to the top of the world in many areas, is not created in the Oil Directorate. It is created by the private actors that have an incentive to do so. In fact, today private operators feel that they are welcomed with their ideas, but they are also parked on the site: do not expect you to get some kind of exclusive right to do so. It is not suitable for creating innovation and solving things smarter in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e265	That's exactly what this conclusion to Halleraker is about being open to both innovation and other professional environments, which I think was the basis for when the economist from Econ Pöyry after the conference, who was in charge of all the industry associations on 14 March of this year, said: ‘My interest in the Haukeli alternative awakened because both Deutsche Bahn and the Railway Agency had this option in their investigations, but the two investigators came up with diametrically different results. Both could not possibly be right. In a numerical analysis, it became quite clear that it was relatively easy to obtain results that were supported by Deutsche Bahn’s analysis and that it was difficult to obtain results that were supported by the Railway Agency’s analysis.’ During the same conference, the representative, Langeland, said that he experienced so many manipulations from the Railway Agency in this matter that he would ask Focus in the NRK to look at this in more detail. I'm not going to decide whether one or the other has the right number material. However, it underlines the everyday experience of business associations, municipalities, regions and county municipalities around the country when major projects are planned. It should be unnecessary to call for alternative competence in order to connect on the east line to a new Follo track in 2013, as you could not connect the rails on the train. There has been agreement and agreement, yes, well, but it was not the railway station that stood first, or that went, or that said, "Oi true, here we have forgotten to ensure that we will have a modern railway for the future in 2013, so that we ensure that 60,000 inhabitants with to-and-from commuting to the eastern part of the country and the capital are connected to a new railway. We have the same thing in the municipality of Oppegård. We don't have to go further than to Lysaker-Sandvika, which could have been built more completely, and thus a saved well 2 billion. kr. We have the same discussions in the Ålesund area. Now the road is going well, and both the road and the railway along the Mjösa. I am very happy about it, but both the environments around it and the alternative competences identified other routes, which were perceived as being rejected, and which were pulled on their shoulders. It is even said that it is not known when alternative environments made reports that make anything else visible in terms of solutions for building the intercity triangle, or the Haukeli road, which I now mentioned. I think it's important that we learn from the oil industry, and that we are much more rusty, humble and include those who disagree. There is also the possibility of being able to put forward what is a solution from state institutions, possibly adjusting it, so that we can get good solutions for the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e281	An interesting point in the debate is the use of private people, and there are a number of speakers today who have been concerned about it. I think it's important to stress that it makes you to a great extent today. Both the Railway Agency and the State Road Administration have increasingly evolved into purely construction organisations. We all know that today there are private entrepreneurs building the roads, building the tracks, and they are both Norwegian and foreign. As construction organisations, it is important that the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency should continue to be professionalised. But it is also important that more and more private entrepreneurs are signaling that they are experiencing the Norwegian market as exciting, with increasingly new tasks and larger tasks, i.e. greater ambitions. That's interesting, and that's important. It is also largely a private professional environment that provides professional advice to the Railway Agency and the State Road Administration. I tried in my post to mention some of them. In the case of the Railway Agency, external competence related to both Norconsult, Cowi, Asplan Viak, Railconsult, Atkins and Vectura was used in relation to intercity. In 2012, Norconsult, Rambøll, Multiconsult and Steria were the main independent trade unions used by the State Road Administration to name a few. This means that transport modes collect the necessary independent and private professional advice they need in the process. But it's clear that it's also a balance because it's resource-intensive. It's resource-intensive, and that means you have to balance it with how one of the agencies chooses to use the resources. I think that might be the experience of the State Road Administration last year when it came to the use of consultants, is an example of this. You have to weigh the extent to which you are going to apply the type of independent environment. So I want to say something finally about planning. I didn't say much about that in my post, but it was taken up along the way here. I think it's important. It's important that someone here is able to reduce the planning time. It was a reference to the budget proposal made by the Ministry of Transport last autumn, and what was said is also what one will build on as regards the national transport plan, which is presented if not so long. It was also an important topic and an important debate on what Mr Sortevik addressed in his interview a few days ago. Reducing planning time, increasing efficiency, is particularly important, and concrete action on this will come back in the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e290	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-11.ana.ud2437e303	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
