ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e26	The representative of Morten Höglund, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The called alternate of the Akershu County, Tom Staahle, has taken the seat. The Workers' Party's Group has submitted an application for leave to the representative of Håkon Haugli on 15 and 16 May to take part in a trip to Kiev, Ukraine, with the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative of Oslo, Khalid Mahmood, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e54	Khalid Mahmood is present and will take his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e66	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e73	Since 13 April, the Financial Newspaper has had a comprehensive series of articles focusing on the economic aspects of immigration. In a price-sensitive way, they have challenged a large number of the established claims that have been put forward in the debate on Norwegian immigration policy – claims that the Progress Party has so far only stood to warn against. Many findings have been presented, including that if non-Western immigration continues as it has for the past five years, the total cost will be 4 100 billion. kr. It corresponds to the entire oil fund and the value of Statoil's shares combined. It also assumes that the immigration we have to Norway is 100 pst. successful through integration, which it is definitely not. The historically high level of immigration that has been under the red-green government, combined with social rights, makes the country's net expenditure and liabilities grow rapidly. A large number of professional economists have also stood up and killed the myth that Norway is dependent on immigration. For example, Knut Røed, a senior researcher at the Frischsenteret, says that it is “a caricature to say that Norway is dependent on labour immigration” – and Stein Reegård, a good friend of the Prime Minister, I would assume, chief economist at LO, that today’s immigration “reduces productivity” and will lead to “lower GDP per person. the population’, and that the infrastructure per capita will also fall. My question to the Prime Minister is, Does he agree or disagree with this? If he disagrees with this, what will the government do to tighten immigration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e84	I believe that both Knut Røed and Stein Reegård are wise and sensible people – I know both well – and they say things I often agree with. I also believe that they have given wise consideration to the economic aspects of immigration. In Norway, immigration has been halted since the 1970s, but then there are two important exceptions. One is that we have those who come here to seek asylum. It is not that we have the asylum system because we believe it is economically viable, but we have the asylum system because it is about protecting people who need protection. We have signed international conventions that any Norwegian government has to respect, and that is that if you come to Norway and can be likely to need protection, you have to stay. We handle it consistently and rigorously. That is, we reject those who do not need protection, but those who have protection needs are allowed to stay in the country. Through it and also through schemes such as family reunification, a number of people come to Norway. I do not intend to rely on economics in the sense that it is not an economic justification, it is a justification based on protection, humanitarian needs and basic international agreements Norway has signed. The second exception to the overall stoppage is the EEA Agreement. As far as I know, the Progress Party is also in favour of the EEA Agreement. It has a main support bar, and it is an open labour market in Europe. As the EEA has been expanded to include some countries with a significantly lower welfare level than Norway, we have had quite a lot of immigration from those countries as well. In the short term, it has been good for the Norwegian economy. Without many Europeans who have taken a job in Norway, Norway would be poorer. In the long term, immigrants also get older, need pensions, need other social rights and will also cost money on the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e95	Norwegian asylum policy is neither consistent nor strict. The consequences of the rejections that are being given today are that people are going to be, so I guess you can't call it either consistent or strict. What this issue was about was not immigration to Norway as a result of the EEA Agreement. It is immigration to Norway, among others. linked to non-Western immigration. That's what a lot of these calculations are about. I did not realize that the Prime Minister answered the main challenges of my questions at all. The underlying calculations are therefore linked to non-Western immigration and state, quite unambiguously, that we will use up the entire Norwegian oil fund and the value of Norwegian Statoil shares if this continues into the future. That's what I'm asking. Then I think the Prime Minister should reflect a little more on the consequences of his government’s policy over the last eight years – which has given us record high immigration. It is possible that we have formally had a stoppage of immigration since the 1970s, but it goes around in all sorts of ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e104	I believe the representative Jensen now mixes different things. It is true that we have a high level of immigration, but it is not because of the institution of asylum. This is not because people are coming out of Europe. The main reason why we have high immigration, i.e. high population weight, in Norway, is large immigration from our European neighbourhood. The fact that many Swedes come to Norway, that many Poles come to Norway and that many from Baltic countries come to Norway is the main reason why we now have high levels of immigration into Norway. In the short term, it is good for Norwegian companies, because they come to Norway because Norwegian companies will hire them. It's labour immigration. There is no one, I think, thinking of blocking the borders against that type of labour immigration and canceling the EEA Agreement. In the long term, economic gains are much less. What we have shown in the perspective communication is that with today's well-being level and today's job-happiness, the state is going through a deficit. This is true whether people are Norwegian, Swedish or come from other countries. This means that we need to increase job flexibility, we need to do something about the public sector and thus ensure the balance of the public sector in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e113	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first the representative Per Arne Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e116	After all, the debate that the representative Jensen tried to raise — and which has taken place in several of the country’s newspapers — is about sustainability. We have both seen and read the settings of the Brochmann Committee – and now, most recently, the figures from the SSB. I would like to remind you that – I think it was – in February, when the perspective message was presented, the Prime Minister was very concerned about the action we had to take to have a sustainable development for the welfare nation of the future Norway. So it's not just about – which the Progress Party is opposed to – removing accrued-to-date pension rights, letting people work more and more – which I am a member of – it's also about taking other debates. Then the question of the prime minister and social economists is of the opinion that today's rate of immigration and composition are sustainable over time. In that case, the SSB will fail.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e125	At least I don't belong to those who have believed that immigration solves our economic challenges associated with an ageing population. There I very much agree with something, among other things. Knut Røed has said in a lot of ways. But once again, immigration is partly due to asylum, refugees, people needing protection, and partly because of what we are all for, namely an open European labour market – which I feel nobody wants to shut down. What we refer to in the perspective communication is the following – namely, that with today’s workability and today’s welfare systems, the Norwegian State will report a deficit. That's why we're saying a little bit about what we're going to do with it. The most important thing is to make sure that more people come to work. It's not necessarily about everyone working more hours, but it's about those who don't work and are out of the labour market getting into the labour market, and it's about the fact that more people can stand longer, which we get through, among other things. pension reform. Some immigrant groups have a high tendency to work and thus contribute a great deal to the community. Others have a low tendency to work, contribute less and are a cost. We want to increase job flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e136	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e139	In his reply to the representative, Siv Jensen, the Prime Minister did not mention a significant factor, namely that many in Norway are both able and willing to work, but are not given a new chance in the workplace. With a record labour migration, however, we cannot afford to give more people who want to and can work, the opportunity to do so. Last week, Nav presented a report that showed that we are missing 600 000 years of work in Norway — people who are on passive benefits. The next year, 40,000 of these will be out of the redundancy scheme, and a lot of evidence suggests that they are on their way to social assistance and on to permanent exclusion from the labour market. What is the government's plan for these 40,000 to be given a new chance in the world of work?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e147	First of all, I think it is very important that we are concerned about the approximately 600,000 who are engaged in health-related benefits. We do a lot to help them get to work. The most important thing is to keep unemployment low and employment high, so that there is a need for labour. It also increases their chances of getting a job. Then there are such measures as the qualification programme, which helps long-term beneficiaries of social assistance back to work, that is the whole labour market policy, and that is also the device of e.g. social security policies that help make working more profitable. We're going to change the disability benefit, and we've changed the old age pension. The picture is that while there was a growth in the proportion of Nordics who were on health-related benefits up to about 2005, this has now flattened out and actually declined slightly. I recognise that we need to do even more, but it is a step forward to track by the fact that the growth we had over many years – that an increasing proportion of the population was on health-related benefits – has stopped and gone down a little. We need to do more to reinforce that development.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e158	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e161	According to the SSB survey it was referred to, we were probably more or less unprofitable to all men – and women, so far. Occasionally, such studies must be taken with a pinch of salt. Another aspect of what was the main issue is a decision taken by the LO — or at least proclaimed by the new management — namely that when Croatia becomes a member of the EU, transitional arrangements should be in place for labour immigration from Croatia. Does the government have any sense of that, and what is in the case of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e170	The government has not provided for any transitional arrangements. Croatia is a country that will soon become a member of the EU. I believe that we all have good experience in an open European labour market. When people come here from our European neighbouring countries – whether they are Swedes, Poles or others – they come because Norwegian companies want their workforce. We would have had a much more difficult economic situation in Norway if we had not had high levels of labour immigration from our European neighbours. However, the short-term economic benefit of getting labour to Norway — which is positive — must be distinguished from the longer-term government financial challenges. Because it's the way that immigrants eventually need pensions if they settle here, and what the SSB's analyses have shown is really no more complicated than what you pay into taxes to the state, is on average less than what you get in social benefits. It's all on average – anyway. That is why it is a point that we need to reform the state and increase job flexibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e177	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e180	I do not fully agree with the starting point of the first questioner, namely that all non-residents cost Norway anything in any case. It's not nationality and skin color that determines whether you're contributing to society, it's whether you're at work, and whether we have a good integration policy. It is a poor integration policy that costs society something. What we should therefore focus on in the next few years is to have a sustainable integration policy for those who come here. Here I think the Labour Party's partner LO has a very reasonable position. They agree with the Left that all asylum seekers should be put to work from day one – when they come to Norway. My question is whether the Prime Minister agrees with LO that it is better integration policy that everyone is put to work from day one instead of being passively put on an asylum reception and told that in Norway you can only receive money. Or can he explain why the government wants to use leave as punishment for people who don't have the right papers when they come to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e189	If the question is whether we are because people who apply for asylum but who have not been allowed to stay should have the opportunity to work, the answer is no. I believe it is important that we enforce a consistent and fair immigration policy. I believe that if we facilitate that people who come here can get a job before they have decided whether they have legal residence, it becomes more difficult to practice a consistent and fair immigration or asylum policy. At the moment they have received a residence permit, there is also a basis for giving work. But there's no point in people getting – what to say – more than absolutely necessary to the Norwegian community while they're looking for a place to stay, simply because we know that a lot of people are going to be returned. The problem of return will only be more difficult if they have also got a job. We very much facilitate that those who have legal residence come to work. We do not arrange for those who do not have a legal stay to come to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e198	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e201	Let me first start by thanking the Prime Minister for putting taxes on the agenda. It is very pleased, and we are pleased that the government and the Workers' Party now, after eight years, recognise that lower taxes are important in securing Norwegian jobs and strengthening the competitiveness of companies. This is an important recognition, because the government has spent the last eight years on more than doubling the tax on working capital, which affects Norwegian-owned enterprises and Norwegian jobs. In several newspapers, the Prime Minister has now announced significant changes in the tax system. Lower tax rates have been discussed both on companies and on labour income. If the tax rate is reduced by one percentage point on labour income, it amounts to more than 10 billion. kr. There is total confusion as to what the Workers' Party really sees, because it is talking about lower rates and, at the same time, maintaining the level of taxation. In that case, it will be the first tax reform to take place without being lubricated with tax relief. The central question is, who is going to pay more tax when someone is going to pay less tax? Are the housing owners paying more tax? Are the pensioners paying more taxes? Is it the social security fee to be paid or is it the employer's fee to be paid? These are questions that voters should be required to know before the election. Who is going to pay more tax if others are going to pay less tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e210	This government has implemented many changes in the tax system over eight years. Everyone has helped us get a better tax system, i.e. both a fairer tax system and a tax system that increases the competitiveness and profitability of Norwegian enterprises. It has also helped us to have many jobs, and this has helped us to have good growth in the Norwegian economy – also in the mainland economy. We have announced that we will continue to convert the Norwegian tax system so that it becomes even fairer and better for the companies. That is why we have also announced that we will do something about what is a growing international problem: that more and more companies are taking advantage of gaps in the tax system, moving money between countries, using tax havens and getting away with low or no taxes. We warned one thing a few weeks ago, that we want to seal – reduce – the company’s access to interest rebates that allow international companies to escape with little or nothing in tax. That gives us 3 billion. kr in increased income. Because we have a tax promise not to increase the overall tax level, we also thought it was right that we explained how we would use the increased income by closing a tax hole. We then announced that we would use the increased revenue to reduce the tax rates for businesses and self-employed people. That's the line we're going to continue, that's to expand the tax base, close tax gaps, make it less possible to use, among other things. tax havens, which are a growing international problem, and use the increased revenue primarily to reduce taxes on enterprises. We have also reduced a sample to go through the tax system. We reduce that sample just because there are some rather complicated technical, professional questions, and it is not possible to conclude on all the details of it before the selection has delivered its setting. But if there's something this government has shown, it's the ability to make the tax system fairer. Low incomes are tax-reduced, and those with the smallest assets are now exempt from taxes on wealth. We've halved the share that pays taxes on wealth by making a fairer system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e223	This was not particularly clarifying, and there is no less confusion after this answer. The Prime Minister is wrong when he says that doubling the tax on working capital has contributed to strengthening Norwegian jobs. How can the Prime Minister think of it, when doubling the tax on working capital affects companies owned by the Nordics, and when it affects the taxation of machinery, buildings and warehousing? It does not contribute to strengthening Norwegian jobs. Before the 2009 elections, the government kept secret the consequences of the increased housing tax planned. Kristin Halvorsen writes in his book that this was so intense that you wouldn't say anything before the election about the consequences of politics. Is there any of the same thing we see now, when we talk about changes that could mean tens of billions that ‘some’ are going to pay? Who is it that will pay more tax, when others will pay less?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e233	First, I think it's quite demanding to distinguish between capital that works, and capital that doesn't work. It has also come to the right. Therefore, they have abandoned the proposal to create a separate tax rate for working capital. They themselves mentioned distinguishing between these two as a very bureaucratic and difficult project. Now they're talking about removing the wealth tax in general for all capital, because they're not able to establish a reasonable distinction between working and non-working capital. Secondly, we've made sure that we've got a fairer wealth tax. We haven't done that by giving millions of tax relief to the richest people in Norway, as Right will, undermining the social solidarity itself, the community of Norwegian society, by giving very great relief to those who have a lot, but we've done it by halving the proportion that pays taxes on wealth by letting those with the smallest wealth – the pensioners, the smallest businesses – now get away with it. We have, in return, dense holes on top so that those who have a lot pay more. Then we've started a conversion to reduce corporate taxes. We've shown how to finance it, heads for heads, but at the same time we've recognized that here's the big system thing that's complicated. That's why we've reduced a sample, but the sample can't answer until it's finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e240	There will be four follow-up questions – the first question is from Gunnar Gundersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e243	I understand very well that the Prime Minister does not want to answer the question very specifically. We value the signals that tax rates are important for strengthening Norwegian jobs and competitiveness, but if we look at what has happened over the past two and a half weeks, there was an urgent need to warn about reduced tax rates on corporation tax. Then, suddenly, the Prime Minister discovered that it is not easy to distinguish between levels of tax rates, and so personal taxation must also be reduced. Then the billions run fast. One percentage point means – as the previous question asked – approx. Between 13 and 15 B.C.E. kr. It's at the level of the property tax. So when the Prime Minister announces that this is just the beginning of a significant change, I believe that the voters actually have a right to hear who is going to pay for the conversion, because that's not small amounts we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e248	Firstly, I am pleased that the Right is concerned with tax rates for businesses. It's actually something new. At its national meeting, the right had comprehensive decisions with many concrete proposals for cutting taxes, mainly personal taxes, but not a single proposal to cut the tax rate for businesses. They have announced 25 billion. kr in lower tax, but not one proposal, not one kr, at lower corporate tax. So the government is proposing what we're showing how to finance it, and then it's also right for it. That's great, but the Right has enough problems paying for the 25 billion they've already promised at lower taxes – not lower taxes on businesses, but lower taxes on people with a high social profile. Secondly, we are fully aware that if you continue to lower corporate taxes, you will have to solve problems with personal taxes. That is why we have reduced the sample, and it is explicitly stated in the mandate that they should consider either making a split — other countries have, of course, distinguished between corporate and personal taxes, different rates, or by having a common rate. Moreover, as tax collectors have not had less in taxes, they also have other taxes, and that is the totality that determines.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e255	Christian Tybring-Gjedde – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e258	The government’s proposed revision of corporate tax means that the Prime Minister recognises that there are dynamic effects in fiscal policy. There are great tones that fit in on May 17. The Progress Party has repeatedly proposed improvements in the tax system. It includes a reduced level to stimulate people to work more and business to invest more. In the past, the Prime Minister has rejected the fact that such links exist, so we can basically repeat that everything succeeds for this opposition. The Progress Party has proposed better depreciation rules. Prior to this, the Prime Minister rejected this because the depreciation rules had to reflect technical lifetime. Now the government has settled on the Progress Party line. It's brilliant. However, the Prime Minister's tax play means that someone will have to pay the bill. Where the Progress Party sees opportunities to spend tax money better, to make the public sector more efficient, to reduce immigration – as we talked about instead – so that people can pay less to the state, the Prime Minister sees a need for a planned economy to maintain tax pressure. Does the Prime Minister see a reform to reduce the overall tax burden in Norway, to make it even fairer for most people?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e267	It is in line with long and good traditions in the Workers' Party to constantly be concerned with getting a fairer and better tax system, both for businesses and for people. The main element of the 1992 tax reform, for which we were responsible, was just one of the things that we are doing now: closing tax gaps, expanding the tax base and reducing rates. Then the company taxes went from about 50 pst. until 28 pst., so it's nothing new that the Workers' Party thinks like that. The new thing is that the right hand parts are now suddenly involved in corporate tax, which they haven't been for many years. The second is that we believe that we can maintain the same level of taxation – we can't just, but we should. That's also why we're concerned with sealing tax holes, and it's not about small money. These are very many billions who disappear from the Norwegian tax base, using access to move money between countries — tax havens — and interest-rate deduction schemes. We tighten this up and finance, heads for heads, the reduced corporate taxes. It's not a random output. Firstly, we have sent a proposal for consultation, and secondly, we have notified changes and reduced a sample.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e274	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e277	As we in the Christian People's Party understand it, this government has actually made up its own tax policy rule, namely that it is the adopted budget of the Bondevik government – the last years it has put in power – which is also the model of this government. So just to make this clear: once the Prime Minister has now advertised tax reliefs, it means – if I interpret him correctly – that any tax bill should have a corresponding tax return for someone else. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e282	It can be worded the other way around: any increase in taxes must be matched in a tax bill. That's exactly what's the starting point here. We announced a Then we got 3 billion. I'm sorry. Because we stand by the promise that we will not increase the total tax level, we turned around and gave the three billion to Norwegian companies and self-employed people. So we do what we say, that's to maintain the total level of taxation, and we make it fairer and more business-friendly to strengthen Norwegian businesses. Secondly, it is not that the last budget of the Bondevik government is our starting point. Our starting point is what was the tax level when we made the tax settlement, the new dividend tax, in 2004. Then we said we should continue that level, because we thought that when we go for a new system, then we also have to clarify the level. That's why we increased the taxes by 12 billion. kr after we took over in 2005, because we reversed the tax cuts in both 2005 and 2006 in the proposed budget of Bondevik. So it's not a random year. That's the year we created a new system, where we also maintain levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e289	There is a lot of good in the government's tax package, as Left sees it. This is something left has been going on for eight years and down on. The challenge now, as we hear in this debate, is the discovery, and the Prime Minister says it should be covered in crowns. So there's been a lot of talk about the three billion budgeted crowns. If I don't remember faults, today's Business on May 8th, the government doesn't know if they get in the three billion budgeted crowns relating to interest rebates for multinational groups. It'll be a little bit like thinking about a number. That is why, once again, I would like to challenge the Prime Minister on a green tax shift. The left has shown in its alternative budgets that it is possible to deal with this – investigation crowns for crowns – in such a way as to spend more money, the environment makes money. So this is a win-win situation. Why is the Prime Minister so reluctant to do so when more and more people think it is wise?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e299	I believe that we should also use the tax system to achieve environmental policy objectives, to reduce emissions, and that is why we also have increased taxation of emissions – more green taxes. We have increased CO2 tax, and it is also part of the climate agreement to increase the CO2 tax on the cap, and we have increased other green taxes. So I'm in favour of the principle of increasing the use of green taxes and then using those revenues on, for example. to reduce taxes on work, and we have done so. Then it must always be weighed against living in an open economy, where many companies compete with businesses in other countries, and that there is a limit to how much difference we can have in taxes in some areas in Norway, compared to what similar companies have in other countries. But the idea – the direction – we are in favour and have followed up at the latest in the climate agreement. Otherwise, the three-billion-billion-dollar estimate. The best estimate available — that is also the way to estimate, in large and small amounts — and that is what we put into the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e312	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e315	I've read Einar Gerhardsen's speech that he held at the entrance to the election campaign in 1955. It is called ‘We build the country’. This is probably a speech the Prime Minister knows well, but a little refreshment may be fine. Gerhardsen said: ‘With the heavy pressure on the housing market, it has so far been necessary to bring together the forces to build the most possible family homes, and in this area we have come a long way’. I have to say that I lack the strength and focus that Einar Gerhardsen had. We know that only last year 10 000 fewer dwellings were built than the need to. We know that in Oslo and in the municipalities around us we need 200,000 new dwellings by 2030. We also see that housing prices have doubled over the last ten years. We need forward-looking measures. The Christian People's Party suggests that we build both tighter and higher around collective nodes. We must have binding agreements between the municipalities and the state. We have to simplify the planning processes. We need to reduce the capital requirement. We have to increase the BSU limit for young people to NOK 300 000. DnB-shef Rune Bjerke states that the government's housing policy contributes to increasing class distinctions. No one can disagree with it, but we see that the differences between those inside and those outside the housing market are increasing every day. What will the government do to reduce the class distinction we see within the housing area?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e329	Firstly, I am pleased that the representative of Hareide reads Einar Gerhardsen's speeches, and I am very pleased with the slogan 'We build the country', because it is something very 'building' in that we jointly build this beautiful country on and do it even better together. It's probably also that some things were – what to say – more transparent in Gerhardsen's time than today. It was e.g. So you had full control of the access to credit and loans, because it was rational, so the state could really decide who would get a loan, and you could decide the type of housing and the type of housing. I'm glad we've liberalized the credit market since then. It also means that people decide to much greater extent what kind of housing they want to buy or want to build, and that means that we have less targeted tools. At the same time, it doesn't mean that we have zero instruments, and that's why we have to do more to promote housing. Last year, housing grew by 9pst, to over 30 000, and in the first quarter of 2013, almost 8 000 new dwellings have been built, which is an increase of 17pst. compared to the first quarter of 2012. So based on those figures, there is still strong growth in residential construction in Norway. That's good, and we're going to keep contributing to it. Among other things, we need to do this. help by following up the notification of housing, as the Stortinget discussed recently, I think it was yesterday, which is about simplification in construction processing, it is about faster planning processes. The Minister for the Environment is also simplifying the entire opposition institute in order to have faster and simpler decisions, more site-planning. Then we also do a lot that is directed at those who work the most in the housing market. We have already doubled the expansion of student housing and announced further increase in the expansion of student housing. We have significantly improved the housing support system, and in addition we have significantly expanded the Husbanken framework and have announced further increases in the Husbanken framework in order to promote even more extensive housing construction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e340	I belong to a prime minister who is very pleased with the developments we are seeing now, where we see a clear class distinction. I agree more with Mr Micasen, who says that ‘Norwegian housing policy is out of control’. He further states that 'the broad housing policy, which concerns most people, is a neglected field'. I want to challenge the Prime Minister in particular on the capital requirement, which frameworks those outside the housing market, not least the young. The question is, what is the equity you enter into the housing market – is it just the part you have in financing? Isn't it true that if you're a young employee, just got a job, it's a real estate in itself, like if you're 60 years old, you're out of work, and so far you've covered the capital requirement?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e347	It is always tempting to reduce demands on solidarity and security, both in individual households and in banks. But I think we have seen – from many European countries, but also from our own history in the 1990s – that there is something dangerous, then there are bubbles in the housing market, where housing prices suddenly start to fall. In Norway, housing prices have increased very strongly over many years, more than in other countries, and there has been a significantly stronger increase in housing prices than in income. We know that one reason many countries are now struggling with the debt and financial crisis is that housing prices were growing too high, and then it turned around. It started to fall, and people got really big problems. We are therefore not prepared to review a unique technical advice from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, which says that it is too risky to borrow more than 85 pst. of the market value of a dwelling. So you have 15 pst. and borrow 85 pst., I think is a proper approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e354	Three questions have been asked and given rise to follow-up – first the representative Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e357	Interestingly, the Prime Minister will not respond to the main challenge — how to build more dwellings in this country. It is a fact that one of the leaders of the Labour Party's own choice of housing policy, the head of the Financial Committee, speaks of the fact that after seven years of red-green government, the housing market is out of control, and the only prime minister that is involved is the demand for equity. But I can draw the Prime Minister's attention to one thing, that a lot of consumer loans are now being taken up to cover that demand for equity, and that rather risks are being transferred to the House Bank. So it's not that what the Prime Minister referred to is the true picture. My question is: we have had an Workers' Party that has said over the past decade that the state is contributing to the proper provision of housing in this country is one of the core areas of the Workers' Party. Why did you leave it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e364	Torgeir Micaelsen managed a housing selection precisely because the Workers' Party still has housing policy as its core area. We've increased the housing structure. It increased by about 10 pst. last year and it has increased by 17 pst. the first quarter of 2013 compared to the first quarter of 2012. Then we're not satisfied that we've got a marked increase in the housing structure. We want even more increase in housing construction, and that is why we are notifying further measures. I mentioned some of them, among others. with regard to simplification of the processing of construction products, the use of the Husbank framework and this in doing more targeted things against those who labor the most. We have e.g. already doubled the expansion of student housing and announced further increase in their development. We have to do a lot of things to increase housing. We are in the process, but we want to continue the policy that has led to more housing being built now than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e373	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e376	The housing policy of the red-green government is characterised by many detailed requirements and detailed management. This has resulted in increased construction costs and also increased prices, which in turn means that many, especially young people, have serious problems establishing themselves in the housing market. One of the requirements imposed by the government is that all the apartments, no matter how small they are, have room for wheelchairs. This, of course, has meant that the development of small furniture and cabins in the private sector has almost stopped. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: What is the most important thing for the Prime Minister – that small furniture and furniture are being built at all, or that all the apartments that are being built should have room for wheelchairs, no matter how small they are?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e384	So first of all, even if we've set construction requirements, housing is increasing, and it's increasing. Secondly, the problems surrounding increased housing prices are not primarily about construction costs. It is primarily about the demand being so high that prices are being pushed up. Since 2000, construction costs have increased by more than 60 pst, while prices have increased by 130 pst. So it's not the construction costs that drive the prices, it's the demand, which is so big that it drives up the prices. In addition to what we do in the case of student housing, we have increased the grants for rental housing, so that both student housing, rental homes and housing of many different types are built in this country as a result of the measures we are implementing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e391	Trond Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e394	We know that there will be a large population growth in the capital area and around the big cities, and many municipalities are doing their very best to facilitate increased housing. In Oppegård, they have worked with municipal plans for many years to build up the public nodes around the railway. Then they are suddenly told by the Railway Agency that now the freight trains are going where the passenger traffic was intended. That's an opportunity. In Lier they have created a municipal regulation plan for Lierstranda, where 20 000 new inhabitants can be settled. That plan was objected to by various state agencies and has now been lying and incubating for two years in the Ministry of the Environment. What will the Prime Minister do to begin coordinating state agencies and government policies, which prevent increased housing production – contrary to the general government guidelines on increased housing production?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e401	First of all, I think we're going to recognize that these are some real approximations. On the one hand, we want the simplest possible treatment of spatial plans. On the other hand, we have to take into account real considerations, for example: that if we want to build up rail in this country, that railway has to go somewhere, and then it's a good idea to coordinate railway plans on railway lines and municipalities' plans on where to build dwellings. There is also a need for coordination with regard to the Road Administration, traffic management, etc. There are real considerations that are weighed against each other when you look at e.g. objections from the Road Administration, from the Railway Works and others, to different plans. What we've done and are doing is we're coordinating it, so there's going to be common objections – not all of them at different times – and we've also remembered that there's only 1 pst. of all the issues that arise in dispute, which end up in the Ministry of Environment. Most of them will be solved locally. So sometimes I think it's an impression that difficult handling in the Ministry of Environment is a bigger problem than it really is, because most of the cases are handled without them going there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e408	This leads us to the next main question – from the representative Per Arne Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e411	My question, which is about care for the elderly, should in no way be understood as an attempt to talk the red-green down – or Norway, which it seems to be also called. In 2005, the Prime Minister said that there should not be a krone in tax relief until it became apparent by the care of the elderly. It was in the same period that he wrote an article on his blog, which has now been removed – but I have it if he should be interested – that there were to be 12 000 new sick homes built in the care of the elderly. Over the last few days, we have seen that the Prime Minister has both understood that tax havens for business lead to growth, and even that tax notes for ordinary people can be an idea. It's very good, but hopefully not a signal that it now shines with the care of the elderly, because it doesn't. In the same days, we have, unfortunately, once again seen in the news of older people who do not receive that care, the dignity and the help they need. There is something repeating with such news headlines. They come at too regular intervals, they come from different parts of the country and from municipalities that are run by different parties, and they come without it looking like the government has been willing to change something structurally to minimize the possibilities for such unworthy treatment. It might seem that the government has acquired ownership of the system for the sake of the system, rather than changing today's model that creates such relationships. The goal for all of us must be a system that takes care of the individual human being who is in need of care. Why does the Prime Minister not want to legislate rights for elderly people in need of care, and why does he not want to change the financial responsibility, so as to ensure that economically-pressed municipalities that have to save do not save on dignity and care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e424	First of all, there is the question of the level of taxation, taxation and tax cuts. It may be difficult to communicate in an comprehensible way, but there is a very big difference in lowering the general level of taxation, the overall tax burden, and in implementing a tax conversion within an overall unchanged level of taxation. What the government has done through all its budgets is to make the system fairer. That is, we've reduced for some and increased for others. That's what we're going to do, and we're now notifying changes where we're tightening up some businesses. Enterprises that have the possibility to move money between countries and use the intra-group interest-reduction scheme will have less access to it. We're cutting their interest-rate deduction scheme. And then we use that money to reduce the taxes on businesses, which I've said several times today. The sum of it is zero, and so it's going to be exactly the same amount of money -- it's actually going to be something more over time, because we guarantee the tax base in the common fund to pay for the care of the elderly. The reason why we don’t promise many billions of dollars in general lower taxes is that we simply think it’s more important to care for the elderly, kindergartens, school, research, and many other things. Right promises about 25 billion. kr in lower tax, the Progress Party promises around 100 billion. kr i lower tax. If they are to sit in government together, there might be something between there, and then there will necessarily be less money for the care of the elderly. I have never met a politician from any party that is against good care for the elderly, but I have met quite a number of politicians who cannot afford good care for the elderly because they have spent their money on other things in the meantime, for example. Big tax cuts. We want legal rights for the elderly. This is why the law states that everyone is entitled to the necessary health care. If necessary health care means that you need a place to stay, you should have it. If there is no place for a nursing home, you should have similar day care with home care, home care and other offers. The OECD has selected us as one of the most senior care countries. It's not good enough for us to get even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e437	We got a long answer about taxes, but the question was primarily about care for the elderly and about why we have the unworthiness we have, and the discrimination we have from caring for the elderly in Norway, despite the fact that the municipalities have received more money – which all municipalities have received from all governments after the war. So this is how you get more money in the following year, because you get more tasks, more reforms and more people. Nevertheless, we are constantly getting these statements about unworthy care for the elderly. Fortunately, we have a health minister who has wanted to turn around in cancer medicine, after a lot of pressure from both the media and people. My question will again be: Is the Prime Minister willing to put the ownership of the system behind him and put the dignity of the elderly ahead of models and paragraphs?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e442	I believe that it is always what serves the individuals, in this case the older ones, who must go ahead. That's what matters. Then we have to create systems that are optimal for the individual people who need care and care. The whole idea of the welfare community is to create schemes that help as many people as possible to live a good and safe life and, of course, to get the care and care they need. As has been the case in many debates here in the United Kingdom, there is always a challenge in the fact that total efforts are good — in the sense that we are doing much and more than before and more than other countries and are being treated by the OECD as one of the countries with the best care for the elderly — but that unfortunately there are not too many examples of it not working. First of all, it's important that people say from, that the media do their job, and that our supervisory bodies do their job. Some of the issues raised in the newspapers relate precisely to what the public oversight bodies have revealed. Then it is traded on the basis that it is revealed missing. That's how we're going to keep improving the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e449	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Kari Kjönnaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e452	In the Health and Welfare Committee, we are dealing with the notification of care in these days. In it we can read that it has been revealed that some municipalities allocate hospitalization space to those with a high pension and nursing homes for those with a low pension. Thus, some municipalities make economically motivated decisions rather than medical decisions. Yesterday's hearing in the committee confirmed this claim. The question is then: how can the Prime Minister continue to defend a system that puts the economy and system ahead of vulnerable people, who need our help and our follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e460	People are going to get care, nursing homes and nursing homes, not based on whether they have high or low pensions, but based on what kind of needs they have. Those needs may vary. They can be covered in different ways, but what the law calls necessary health care. If there is a nursing home place, you should have a nursing home place. It is the medical evaluation that is behind it. If you see examples of this not being enforced, it is important that you take it into account in the municipality in question. We also have our own supervisory bodies, as I say, to ensure that the legislation is complied with. Again, although we have received 22,000 more annual jobs in the care and care sector since 2005, and although there are increased skills, more medical coverage and many thousands of qualifications in care and care in recent years, there are unfortunately still examples that not everything works everywhere. Then you have to take care of it and do something about it in the individual municipalities. The State must follow up on its own.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e467	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e470	The latest COSTRA figures mentioned in the Municipal Report show that since 2008 and up to 2012, there have been 69 more sick homes in Norway. During the same period, the government has implemented an interaction reform, which means that older people are more quickly released from hospitals and, most often, sent to a hospital facility. This means that it has become more difficult for older people waiting for a sick home to find room. Does the Prime Minister feel reassured that the growth of 69 places, from 2008 to 2012, will enable us to give older people a sick place when they need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e475	There has been a massive expansion in the Norwegian care sector. The best expression for that is that we've got 22,000 more annual works. The annual works are partly placed in nursing homes, partly in nursing homes and partly in private homes, through home services. That is what is really the basic and best goal of the effort – how many hands and heads we have in care, which provides care and care in different institutions under different ceilings. I don't know those numbers, but I've heard some similar numbers before. First of all, I think you're ignoring nursing homes. Secondly, I think this is mixed with the old old homes. So it's often a little bit incomparable. But the main picture is that there have become better places, and not least that there have become more people in care and care, which allows us to give more a good offer. After all, the cooperation reform has received broad support in Stortinget. The interaction reform means that we get better work sharing between hospitals and municipalities. That's good for the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e482	Dagrun Eriksen - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e485	It's getting closer to campaigning. After all, annual work and how many hands we should have in the care of the elderly are a pleasant theme. The last promise was to have 12,000 more annual shifts in the care service by 2015. The Prime Minister here says that there have been 22,000 annual works. But it turns out in the same report that Bent Höie showed that the coverage rate for those over 80 years, i.e. those who need a happy day's accommodation, is falling. So my question to the Prime Minister is, are the 22,000 annual works that the government thinks they've been able to get, enough? Do we need more? Secondly, how many of these annual works have actually gone to the care of the elderly? The Prime Minister consistently uses the term ‘care and care’. How many of these annual works to which the Prime Minister refers go to care for the elderly?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e490	There'll be a lot of numbers. It's important, because it's about people – behind every number, it's people. However, 22,000 more years of care and care are available from 2005 to now. The number 12,000, and that's what's confusing, is from 2008 until 2015. Whether you're raining like this or not, there's been a huge increase, and it's absolutely right that it's in the care and care business. The question is whether that is enough. The answer to that is: No, that's not enough. That is why we continue the development of care, employing more people and giving the municipalities money to do so. We're still seeing growth. The second is that it's right that it's in care and care. You have very poor numbers to distinguish between what goes to older people and what goes to younger users. This is due, inter alia, to: one home help can be at the home of an elderly person in the morning and in the afternoon at the home of a younger person — a disabled person or a road user. It can vary from week to week, from day to day. That's why you can't get good enough numbers over just how many hours you spend on the elderly compared to the younger ones. Overall, it is essential that more people can deal with both younger and older users.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e497	Let's go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e500	Last summer, our cities experienced a great influx of EEA citizens, most of them from the space population, begging on streets and overnight out. Tigging has become a big order problem in our cities in the summer. Activities are partly organised and related to other crimes. In many ways, this new form of begging has become the face of other crime outside. Many suggest that more people are on their way this summer. The right therefore considers it necessary to reintroduce the prohibition of begging. This is because the begging today is quite different from the one we had experienced at the time when the ban was lifted. A ban will make it less attractive for backers to send beggars to Norway, and the police will have a simple tool to start sending out people who are in Norway on false premises again. The government has launched its action plan against begging. It is very difficult to find some from the areas that are most affected, which believe it will have some effect. Both the National Attorney and the Police Directorate believe that the proposal will have little effect on the unfortunate consequences of begging. The Police Directorate and the most affected police districts not only consider that the proposal for registration will have little effect, but they warn against the proposal. They say, among other things: It may harm them, even ‘will be so resource-intensive that it will obviously go down on other and more important police tasks.’ The proposal also meets with opposition in the Church's Bymission and the Salvation Army. Minister of Justice Grete Faremo said in connection with the press release that begging is undesirable in Norway. I expect the Prime Minister to agree with that statement. Does the Prime Minister think that people in Oslo, Bergen and Stavanger will this summer experience meeting fewer beggars than last year?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e512	At first I think it's important to distinguish a little bit between different things in this debate. I experience it so that no one believes it is possible to ban poverty, social inequality and distress. It was a unanimous increase that also abolished the ban on begging in 2005. Our main challenge is that we live in a world and in a Europe where there are great social differences. We have entered into an EEA agreement – Right, Labour Party, the broad majority here on the Stortinget – which means that there is now an open labour market, open borders between Norway and Romania, and Norway and Bulgaria. It wasn't a few years ago. Then the social distress and the poverty get closer to us. I can understand that is unpleasant. But there's no more poverty because we see it, it just becomes more visible, because it's getting closer to us. I feel that no one really believes that we should ban, because it is not possible to ban poverty, and it is not possible to prohibit people from suffering and suffering. In an open European labour market, for which we are all in favour, we will also see more about it than we did before. Therefore, it is necessary to distinguish between that and what I think it is possible to prohibit and to do something about, namely, what is involved in napping, in theft, in the case of ingraining, in the case of illegal camping and illegal residence. Our instruments are primarily aimed at doing something about these things. Firstly, we have put money into the EEA Agreement – I think it is 300 million. Dr, at least several hundred million kroner — for action in the countries where this problem arises, mainly the countries of origin of Romania and Bulgaria. Secondly, we have said that we need to enforce the rules we have, even more consistently and more stringently. It's e.g. not be allowed to stay in Norway for more than three months without getting a job. We know that many of the people who are here have been here for more than three months – and they're going out. If you do criminal acts, of course we're going to knock it down, and use the police for it. We already see examples of that. Thirdly, we need to strengthen the regulatory framework, including: lower the threshold for the possibility of deporting persons committing illegalities in Norway. Fourthly, we want to put in place a registration system that makes it easier to enforce these rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e527	The Minister of Justice said begging is undesirable in Norway. I expect the Prime Minister to agree. Will these measures lead to less or more begging in our cities this summer?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e535	These measures will help to make it smaller than would otherwise be. Then it's a little dependent on whether cities want to use these tools. We have made an offer. If you don't want to use those tools, it's clear that they won't work either. But we depend on cooperation between the municipalities and the police to get it done. I have seen that in some police districts the police have welcomed it, some municipalities have welcomed these measures, others have said no. Where you don't want to use these new tools, you don't get any effect either. Where you put them into use, I'm sure it's going to have an effect. But there are many measures, there are also stricter rules, and there is a registration system. A registration system is itself important in order to close away those who are criminals and who want to beg, but above all it is important to give us better opportunity to expel those who have been here for more than three months. The problem with the open EEA market is that we do not register when people come here, nor do we know how long they have been here. With a registration system, we will have a much better way of sending people home. And when some municipalities don't want it, unfortunately this isn't available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e544	There will be four follow-up questions – first the representative Trond Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e547	The Prime Minister is concerned that economic instruments can be used, in particular in the EEA countries. With regard to the financial instruments of the new reporting and registration scheme, the government writes in its proposal to the Stortinget: ‘The police’s enforcement of a notification obligation scheme will involve more work for the relevant police districts. The expenditure may be covered within the ordinary budgetary framework.’.» There aren't so many dollars set there. We are still getting messages – land and beach around – about increasing begging on the doors. The police are asking people to lock the doors and be on guard – and at the same time say that this is fully legal. The government will allow the municipalities to introduce beggar-free zones, such as national attorney, police directorate, Oslo police, Bergen, Trondheim, etc. is against. If the system of beggar-free zones in the municipalities works as well as the Prime Minister and the government believes, is the Prime Minister afraid that there will be more or less begging on the doors of people?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e563	I repeat: it was a unanimous growth that lifted the ban on begging, but it is also an overall increase that has said that what is called aggressive begging is forbidden. I think it's important enough to enforce that ban. As I tried to say in my first answer, what we have to break down is the situation where it is important that we enforce the rules strictly. This applies, for example: aggressive begging, nodding and grizzling. As far as I can see, Oslo will now adopt stricter rules regarding the possibility of camping and living in a car in this city. I don't know the proposal, but it sounds reasonable. There are rules that we have to adopt, which we have to enforce, and which we may need to tighten up in several areas. So I say that imagining that we can ban poverty, or prevent us from seeing more poverty in an open Europe with a lot of social distress, is probably not possible anyway. We see it in many other European countries, which have the same types of challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e572	Siv Jensen - to the next follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e575	Many have indicated that they have suffered in order to understand the measures that the government has launched. The Minister of Justice has tried to explain these. I will read some quotes that she gave to Dagbladet on 7 May, when she explained the registration system: ‘A registration system shall be established. Then it's up to the municipalities how they want to register this. We will also cooperate with them on how to make it easy for those parts of the money collection that we need to make sure that we do not red tape too much." It was very clear. I think everyone now understood the whole purpose of a registration system. On the issue of a breach of the registration obligation alone, the Minister of Justice will reply as follows: ‘When you have a ban on begging at the time and place, the reaction is likely to be a common reaction to a disorder of order.’ I guess a lot of people got a lot wiser now, considering how the government intends to enforce this. My question is, what's the point of proposing measures that won't work at all, and that most people don't understand?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e594	Firstly, we have notified many measures, the registration system is one of them. What we're doing there is following up on something that some municipalities have already introduced. The reason why we have a registration system is so that people who commit crime can beg for something to be done with those cases. The second is that it is easier to enforce that provision in the EEA Agreement that says that you should not be here for more than three months without work. There is a provision that is difficult to enforce today, and it is a problem for all of us who are very much in favour of the EEA Agreement, that we – I say – have that kind of regulation. But at least it'll be a little easier if we register when people come to the country – then it'll be easier to say that you've been here for more than three months. Again, it's an offer. As far as I know, Bergen has a registration system, and other municipalities have a registration system. We want to have a clearer legal basis for this – give it to several municipalities. That's part of our proposal. It does not solve all problems, but it is a contribution in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e603	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e606	I agree with the Prime Minister that action is needed to solve the problems in the short term. A ban will not prevent people from coming to Norway to seek help. Whether we have a ban or not, people will come to Norway. That is why we need to solve this long-term challenge. We have to give people work, and there are a lot of non-governmental organisations working on that. We also need to help out so that more of them are trained so that they can get a job in the long term. The point is that we have to help them out of poverty and distress. A week ago, May 8th, we celebrated the day of release, and we remembered the Holocaust victims. 6 million Jews were killed, and perhaps as many as 1.5 million Roma were also killed in the Holocaust. Europe's space population is still on the move, often wild. We agree that begging is not good, we do not want them to beg – we want them to have something else to do. I think it does something to us all when we see the beggars. But unfortunately, some people react, they use bad words and do bad things, and it often becomes a hateful debate. My question is, what does the Prime Minister do when he experiences such things?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e617	I think it is important that in a democracy we can have an open debate where we also talk about difficult issues, without violating individuals or stamping people's groups and characterising them in ways that are hurtful or that build on prejudices. So what I mean is that we have to be able to talk about there are real problems associated with a lot of space people coming to our country – and creating obvious problems related to, for example. As a result, there is a need to address the issue of drug use in Europe and to address the issue of drug use in Europe and to address the issue of drug use in Europe. Norway cannot solve the social problems in Romania alone, but we can make our contribution. And it's not new that it's there -- the new thing is that we see it more clearly because Romania has become part of an open European single market.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e624	Then is the last follow-up question – Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e628	I want to follow up on Ropstad, because I don't really think the Prime Minister answered the question completely. This is a big, complex problem that is very complex, and requires a lot of complex answers. There is no simple solution that makes this disappear from our urban images or from our surface. But we also see that there are truths that can absolutely be asked questions, and truths that are wrong. Last summer, a truth arose that people had to take care of their pets because they were stolen and grilled on disposable grills on the Tøen. Truths arise that many children attend and beg in the streets of Norway, sail if no one can really prove that it is happening today. There is a lot of truth about links between crime and begging, and truths arise related to other criminal structures. What will the Prime Minister do? Does he see it as his mission to combat errors in these debates?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e635	I think it is very good that many contribute to the fight against myths, prejudices and factual errors that occur around the space people in Norway. That's what I'm going to contribute to, and it's very good that the Left Leader and others do the same. At the same time, I am concerned that it must be possible to combat prejudices and misinformation about a population group while recognising that there are problems related to that population. I think we're just doing ourselves a bear service if we say there's no problem, that you're just exaggerating. There are real problems that you have to deal with, and try to do something with. I also recognise that it is complicated and difficult, but at least we need a public conversation, a dialogue, on which instruments are best. We have shown some: spending money in countries where the problem originates - Romania and Bulgaria - enforce more stringently the provisions we have in the EEA Agreement in three months stay, among other things, tighten the legislation, lower the threshold to send out people who commit criminal acts - but of course also many other things.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e644	As a result, the time for the oral question procedure is over, and we are going to go to case No. 2, which is regular Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e656	There will be one change in the set question list. In this context, the President refers to what has been distributed in the seats of the representatives. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 1, from the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Food and Trade, must be postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e676	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time. Since it was half of today's question, we are left with one question, which was originally to be asked as a number. 2, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e685	It was the last, but best. ‘After eight years of red-green governance, the country’s four largest cities still face major transport challenges. Expected population growth increases the need for transport and thus increases the challenges over the next 10–30 years. Action is needed in the short, medium and long term to improve and develop infrastructure and to finance investments and operational actions. The old and new urban packages of the government do not meet the need for predictable, long-term and clear funding. Will the government take greater responsibility for transport in the big cities?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e694	The representative Sortevik asks whether the government will take greater responsibility for transport in the big cities. The answer to that question is yes. In the proposal for a national transport plan, which is now under discussion in the United Kingdom, the government is proposing a sharp increase in the funds for the new overall urban environment agreements and the reward scheme. The funds from the urban pot may also be used for county infrastructure of high national interest. In addition, strong efforts are being made to improve the accessibility of cyclists and pedestrians. Strong rail investment has also been proposed in the national transport plan, and in particular in urban areas. Last but not least, the national transport plan also proposes a sharp increase in roads. We all know that a good name is essential for good public transport around and in the big cities. Compared to the current year's budget, the government's proposal means that the government in the next planning period will add up to a level of about 50 pst. above the level of the current year’s budget. In dollars, that means a level that's almost 17 billion. kr higher than the 2013 budget. It's going to help with measures around and in the big cities. The representative of Sortevik claims that there is a need for short, medium and long-term measures to improve and develop infrastructure and to finance investments and operational actions. I totally agree with you here. But then he also claims that the government's old and new urban packages do not meet the need for predictable, long-term and clear funding. I disagree. The proposals in the NTP represent a sharp increase in efforts to meet the needs of cities, and it is also being made in the form of new measures for the organisation of transport policy in urban areas, where the state, county and municipality join together in negotiations, and hopefully are able to commit themselves to pursuing common objectives. Objectives and instruments shall ensure an increased collective share, cycling and walking, reduced car use and land use measures building on environmentally friendly urban transport as a whole. Never before has the type of operation proposed in the national transport plan currently submitted for transport operations in urban areas been taken. Chapter 6 of the proposal for a NTP, now under discussion in the Grand Duchy, also proposes measures that will ensure more predictability and long-termity, and those measures, combined with the economic framework provided by the government in relation to urban areas, will lead us a long way forward in the transport system in urban areas – and, to a large extent, throughout the country as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e713	Thanks for the expected response on actions that do not meet the need. The urban challenges relate to the financing of both freight and passenger transport. In the cities of Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim, the road will still be the main transport carrier. Many who have participated in the consultation on new NTPs underline the need for clearer and more comprehensive state funding of necessary investments in decent road networks. As it is now, the government allows the drivers to take most of the bill. The operation of the transport network in and around the largest cities is of national importance. The effect of faster implementation, thereby speeding up power take-offs, is high. Reinforced state funding is socio-economically very profitable, strengthens value creation and provides great climate impact, so my question is again: why does the government not take greater and clearer financial responsibility for investing in road networks in the four largest cities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e720	The State assumes greater overall responsibility for the transport in urban areas in terms of both rail, collective actions which are currently a municipal responsibility, and on behalf of the state. One must see all this in context if one is concerned with the future and modern transport solutions in urban areas. I do not disagree with Mr Sortevik that the road network is important for public transport, but it is clear that it must also be seen in the context of railways and other collective measures in urban areas. There are a number of proposals in the national transport plan that will contribute to a significantly better image around and in major cities. I can mention Jakøya – Zentervegen – Tonstad in Trondheim, which is part of the Environmental Package Trondheim. I can mention Ramstadsletta – Lysaker, who is E18 westward from Oslo, and the Sotra connection, which will mean that we get a completely different capacity on the bridge between Sotra and Bergen, as an example of action on the road network that will improve the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e727	From investment in road networks to collective actions: many of those who have now been consulted underline the need for clearer and more comprehensive public funding of public transport and more clear and predictable funding than both the reward scheme and the new urban environment packages. The team members said this in the hearing: ‘Patience of public transport in major cities requires increased means of operation. Increased general operating frameworks must be set in addition to the time-limited arrangements.» The system of state purchases of passenger transport by train is well known – I refer to Cape. 1351 in the State budget – but it only applies to trains and therefore provides very different treatment for the four largest cities, where three have few trains and many buses. Will the State Council extend the system of public procurement of public transport to public transport also on the road?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e739	I think it is necessary in this debate to stress that it is not the responsibility of the State to solve transport challenges alone in urban areas. It is initially a municipal responsibility to design public transport in large cities and on a good part of the road network. Having said that, I would like to say that this government has significantly increased the investment in urban areas. Only the reward scheme itself has been doubled from this government to the government offices, until today. Now we're taking new steps to get a stronger and more long-term bet on the cities. In this context, it is also necessary to consider the issue of operational resources in the context of the negotiations to be held with urban areas on any new urban environmental agreements. I do not ignore the fact that this is a theme it is natural to negotiate with the cities that have invested in, among other things. bus transport as an important part of public transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e746	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-15.ana.ud2507e759	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
