ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e26	The representative of Ms Olug V. Bollestad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e29	On behalf of the representatives Hans Olav Syversen, Ketil Kjenseth, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative on external expert assessment and the presentation of a plan for the further conversion of the capital process in Health South-East.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e34	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e46	On Monday the Stortingen received a message from the Prime Minister's office saying that Prime Minister Erna Solberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Jens Stoltenberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e53	Since this is the last questioning session before Christmas, I would like to take the opportunity to wish Prime Minister Erna Solberg and the government a really good Christmas. I hope they get a nice vacation and lots of nice gifts. The government has been sitting for two months, and we all understand that that's not all it's done, but in some areas it still has the right to change the course – shift the course in a different direction from that of the previous government. One of those areas is kindergarten policy. In these days we all receive many Christmas cards. Parents with children in kindergarten also receive notice that the nursery price will rise by about 500 kroner next year. It may not be a very dramatic amount, but it's still the first time in very many years that the nursery price is going up and not down. From 2005 to 2013, there was a significant decrease in the real price. Now the kindergarten prices go up for the first time in many years, so it's a new course. More seriously, it may be that the sum of the fact that there will be no more admissions into kindergartens, and of the fact that having children in kindergarten is more expensive, is that the government itself estimates that there will be 7 000 fewer children in kindergarten compared to that of the previous government, and that the number of children in kindergarten, for the first time in very many years, goes down from one year to another. We believe that kindergartens are good for the children, good for equality, good for integration and not least for those who are struggling to learn Norwegian, to have a good foundation before they start school. Fewer and more expensive kindergartens are not something that comes just by chance. It's a result of political choices this government is making. My question to the Prime Minister is: is she satisfied that there are now 7 000 fewer children in kindergarten, and that child care prices, for the first time in very many years, are rising?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e66	I am pleased that this government has made clear and clear priorities, including: with regard to children. Making sure that children get the best start in knowledge they can, is about prioritising money to school. Now, for many years, we have prioritised a lot of money for kindergartens. This government prioritises investing in more knowledge in school, and making sure that all children get the best ballast to master life in the future, that's important. That is why we have made some clear priorities in terms of knowledge efforts in this budget, and that means there are other areas for which we do not give much priority. In addition, we're making sure that the quality of kindergartens in the years to come, because it's not just a question of keeping children, it's also a question of raising the quality of the offer that children get when they go to kindergarten. It's also going to be prioritised by this government in the future. There will be other bets from our government, the Right Party government in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, than it was under the Red-Green government. And perhaps just in the field of knowledge – what we think is most important that Norwegian children experience – there is a difference. We're doing what we've been saying for years. So now the knowledge, the teacher, has to be in focus, not all other things. That means that there will be areas that are being down-prioritized. The second thing we do, as we have also said, is contribute to freedom of choice for families. This means that we are making changes, including: in cooperation with parties on the Stortinget, in the case of cash support. It has the effect that it is estimated that there will be slightly fewer kindergartens, or that there will be children's playgrounds, because more families make a choice of values, where they want one in the family to be fully or partly at home, because they get more economical business. I believe that our society can afford that. I believe that our society also serves to allow families to make the values they think fit their family.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e75	I noticed that the Prime Minister did not answer the question, namely whether she was satisfied that there are now 7 000 fewer children in kindergarten, and that all parents have to pay more to have children in kindergarten. I mean it weakens the knowledge of society. It weakens the quality of society that 7,000 children, perhaps the children who need kindergarten the most, are now not going to go to kindergarten. It gives them a poorer basis for going to school. The government makes one clear prioritisation in the budget, and that's spending 4 billion. More oil crowns – 4 billion kr more on tax cuts. That is the most obvious priority in the budget. It would have been entirely possible to finance both cheaper kindergartens and more kindergartens if you had not given up many billions to lower taxes. Kinderhagen quality: We increased that effort from 10 million. NOK 160 million. kr. The number of employees with education has increased significantly in kindergartens, so quality has been put on. But it makes no sense to set up a contrast between investing in quality and the number of children in kindergarten. I repeat, is the Prime Minister satisfied that there will be 7 000 fewer children in kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e86	I'm here to expand more kindergartens. I am for families to have a real choice to give priority even if they want kindergarten, or if they want to stay a little longer at home and have the possibility of a closer family follow-up of the children. I see that as a choice of values that I think it's up to every family to take. One of the reasons for this change is that in the budget there is simply an estimate made in the light of the changes we are making, where there will actually be a little more children staying at home because the family can afford to be at home. In politics, all are priorities. It's not possible to separate out and talk just about kindergartens. We've done some priorities, and our priorities are in the field of knowledge, it's bringing down health cows, it's making sure to build more roads, and it's making sure to get more competitiveness. It also involves making changes within the tax regime. Let's do what we promised. We follow our priorities. Yes, they are different from the priorities of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e93	First follow-up questions are from Rigmor Aasrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e96	The Prime Minister said in his reply that the government parties are doing what they have promised. Although neither the Right, the Left or the Christian People's Party was behind the kindergarten agreement in 2002, it provided the basis for a massive expansion of kindergartens and the introduction of a maximum price that many parents have appreciated. Now it breaks the agreement, and the prices are increasing. The tax that a normal family now receives covers just for the increased kindergarten price that the government of Solberg has adopted, while one of 2 million. kr in income receives the entire child care bill covered by the tax bill. Where is the social profile in this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e103	The History Generation of the Working Party may be a bit wrong. The SV and the Progress Party took the initiative in a kindergarten conciliation. The nursery agreement was finally negotiated, and all the parties on the Stortinget were behind it. The Workers' Party was not the initiator of a kindergarten settlement. They were there when everyone else went into the discussion about how we should get it done. We didn't have a discussion if we were going to have full babysitting. Everyone agreed. That decision is actually taken in Stortinget before I got here, and it's starting to be a long time ago. In the spring of 1989 there was agreement in Stortinget on full child care coverage. What was the discussion was whether we should prioritize lower kindergarten prices before we had full kindergarten coverage. But then it's like we've done some other priorities, and what's really social in our budget, is we're increasing the capacity for drug treatment. We ensure that the most vulnerable children feel that their parents are being treated, and that they thus have a safer childhood. That's what I think is a real, good priority – then we hit the most vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e110	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e113	I really hope it's not some kind of new practice that you walk out of the pulpit if you're not satisfied with the answer that's being given. I think it's right, as the Prime Minister says, that we should give priority to those who need it the most. These include: was the problem with the maximum price, was that the families with the worst advice got a more expensive kindergarten, while those who had the most to go with, actually got the biggest price cut. The budgetary agreement concluded by the Government Parties and the Christian People's Party and the Left states that we should look at that very question: how to ensure lower child care rates for them with the worst of advice? How does the government view the follow-up of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e121	I fully agree that with regard to the distribution perspective in the discussion about what kind of support we provide, the picture is probably quite different from that the maximum price was what gave good distribution. For example, even if you have to disagree with cash support, you have to. admit that cash support is more targeted distribution policy than, for example: children's gardening space is initially. I believe that freedom of choice between them is important in any case. It is important that we also look at the bottom of what happened when we introduced the max price. In very many municipalities, this meant that there was a price for all kindergartens, and that many with lower rates received higher prices. That is why the government agrees with the Christian People's Party and the Left that we should introduce a regulation on differentiated kindergarten prices. Then we have to find room for that in the budget, because that means we have to compensate the municipalities for the lost income resulting from the introduction of a differentiated regulation, and a right to differentiated nursery prices – with the aim that those with the weakest economy actually get a better chance to pay for a nursery place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e128	Social violence Vedum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e131	The words «New ideas, better solutions» were chosen on the right. In the budget, the more expensive kindergarten became for all, including those with lower incomes, and the two-yearly admission rate was eliminated. Are more expensive kindergartens and less flexibility to start using kindergartens, which the Prime Minister defines as new ideas and better solutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e136	No, we have better solutions than that. We've said that we're going to work for municipalities to make a continuous recording, but we've also been very clear in this election campaign on what we prioritized, both the four parties behind the government, and each of us. It was a very clear message for the voters – they have, after all, voted for us on the basis of that message – that we should give priority to knowledge initiatives, that we should build more and faster in road and public transport, that we should provide better competitiveness for Norwegian businesses by reducing taxes, that we should ensure that hospitals are treated more in Norway, and that we should give priority to the weakest. It is not so strange that a government starts with its priorities – what we voted on, and asked for support for – so we have prioritised that in the budget that has been adopted. Then it means that the priorities that the red-green politicians did in their budget were actually not governing how we prioritised, because we have a promise to our voters. We do it every day, and we do it first, and I think it's important to do it as a politician.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e143	Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e146	The kindergarten field is the field where there is the greatest difference between the measures taken by the government and the rhetoric they use. The kindergartens eventually became the big loser in the budget – along with the students – 649 million. Kr was cut in the kindergartens. Nevertheless, the government is running a very offensive rhetoric, where they are in favour of running recording, better quality, etc., while they are cutting. I have previously asked the question to Solberg, I have asked it to Sanner, who is responsible for the municipalities, and to Røe Isaksen, who is responsible for the kindergarten – and that is: When do Norwegian children get kindergarten when they need it, without going beyond the number of adults and pedagogues per child or the dishes they add?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e151	It's a question I can't answer, because we're going to get back to every single year. We're going to build more capacity. It is incredibly important to remember that the previous government has not been able to build enough capacity on, or train enough, pre-school teachers or bet on quality in the last eight years. You were most concerned with the expansion. We are concerned that we should get both quality and continuous admission and expand kindergartens, but we are also concerned that we have other priorities. As I have repeated in my previous answers: we have gone to elections in some important areas, and they start the government with. I think it's important, once the voters have voted on parties, that we deliver on what we've promised the voters that we should do, and that becomes first priority. So it's not like the students aren't going to win with our budget. They actually become significantly more winners next year: 2014 is the first time it has happened in some budget that regulation has gone over the usual price increase. That means that the students in 2014 get a significantly better economy with what we put up, and the majority of the Stortinget have adopted, than what was red-green policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e158	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e161	I could ask follow-up questions about the previous question as well, as I am very busy with kindergartens for the next year, but I want to ask a main question. Now we are in the middle of Christmas, and then it is very difficult to be sorry that we have Sunday-open shops. But the question is, do we want it like this all year? The Norwegian people say yes to Sunday-open shops in Christmas, but they say a clear no to Sunday-open shops all year round – yes, it's only 26 pst. in the November survey, which says yes to it, and a total of 58 pst. says a ringing no. I also believe that those who have now decided to work Sundays in December are very happy that it is not like this for the rest of the year. In Denmark, the introduction of Sunday-open shops has resulted in both concentration and significant closure of local shops. If we sum up this, we see that the Norwegian people are against Sunday-open shops, the NHO is against, the working is against, the LO is against, they are against, the industry is against, the consumers are against, the costs of society will increase, and we also know that we need the human resources in other areas in the future. So my question to the Prime Minister is, will the government listen to and take advice from the many like this before the government comes to a final conclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e168	It was an interesting speech. I think we could have had the same reading in many areas, over many of the changes we've made in the past – not least the fact that the trade movement and large parts of the Great Britain were opposed when we liberalized working hours and left the shops open longer. But no one's ever thought about shutting them down again afterwards, and why? Well, because people feel that it's a good thing they've got. The entire freedom revolution that took place during the Willoch government is perceived as a good one. But there was one deficiency in the reading, and that was the fact that at the election the voters voted in favour of a majority on the Stortinget which was for Sunday open shops. It's in our programs. So we essentially have a change that the voters have agreed to in the election. It counts for me heavily – as it does in many other areas – what you have promised in a campaign. Then we've said we should have a process with the parties. We've said we're going to talk about how we're going to solve this. It is not that it is not possible to mobilise more labour to, for example: Sunday-open shops. There are still many students and other young people who want to work more. But we've said we're going to go round with the parties and discuss how we're going to implement this. Personally and on behalf of the majority who have been elected on the programme that has this, I believe that all the preserving forces that are always opposed to change tend to slow down – and then people experience that it is a welfare good. There are different models for this. You can regulate so that everyone is allowed to have an open Sunday, you can give the municipalities the opportunity to regulate so that they are allowed. There are many conflicts in municipalities that want to have Sunday-open shops – especially in the summer months – because they are tourist resorts but are defined by the county officials as not just tourist resorts. That's why they don't have to be open. Even with today's law, there are some barriers and challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e181	I want to thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the government will run a process using these tools. But I have enough experience that the Prime Minister has already made up his mind in many ways. That seems to me to be a great pity. What I think is very special, is that just this point has the Solberg government included in the chapter on simplification. One very well writes about how one should streamline, how one should use the resources of the community even better, and how one should reduce administrative costs and unnecessary red tape. But we know that if we introduce Sunday-open shops, we give business and shopkeepers extra costs. So they get extra costs – without increasing their turnover. I look forward to the dialogue with the government, and I hope that it actually gets into the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e193	It is now the case that once batches have adopted programmes, they have decided. It's part of party democracy, when there's been issues where the party has made a decision. During the process, we need to listen to the parties – to hear how we can implement this. I want to say that this can mean more costs for some shops and others, but it can also mean more freedom for people – the ability to do something else, the ability to prioritize and organise their everyday lives a little differently. I am concerned that that freedom is also important. I know that e.g. In the drama, where you have worked a lot to get this done, there is only one Brustad-bu over 1,000 traders every Sunday. This suggests that there is a need for people out there to go shopping on a Sunday.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e202	It opens for follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkevold.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e205	People can get freedom to do things in a slightly different way. Today is not Sunday one day – Sunday is a slightly different day for most people. That's what many of us think has a value in itself. Many of us think it's a good thing for everyone to have a different day at the same time – that it's good for family life, and that it's good for public health. To what extent is the Prime Minister aware that this could change for many of us if there were Sunday open shops, as mentioned in the government platform?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e214	I agree that everyone has a good day's rest, a day off. The question is whether everyone needs to have it the same day – whether this is something that each family can decide. One third of all women in Norway work outside the normal working day. A lot of people in our community work Sundays, working Saturdays. There are a lot of people who are already in professions where you don't have the same days off. This may well have a little to do with the difference between the parties in the confidence of the individual – who will decide things in one's own life, and how much social design you're going to make out of these questions. I think it's a good idea to go on a Saturday. I think it's nice to take a breath and enjoy yourself with the family on a Saturday. For some families, this may be as simple as on a Sunday, for then Mom – and in some cases Dad – is going to work. There are a little more mothers than dads who are working on Sundays. This freedom should be enjoyed by the families themselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e225	Trond Giske – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e228	Solberg has gone to a very interesting way to respond to challenges from both Fylkesnes, Stoltenberg and Hareide – whether in the case of smaller kindergartens, more expensive kindergartens or on Sundays: We have a majority. We won the election. That's why we're doing it. It's better to go into the substance and answer what Hareide asks about. The business operators fear that they will be forced to keep open on Sunday – because others do – that they will earn less, and that they will get more money. This is a reduction in productivity. Families fear that they will be forced to work. You lose the freedom to be with family, spouse or girlfriend on Sundays. People lose the freedom to have Sunday as a different day, a day when you let go of the shopping party, a day when you can use the center, the cities, in a different way than the rest of the week. Is it just ideological pedigree that makes the Right move on with a proposal that reduces productivity, takes away the freedom to be with the family, destroys Sunday as a peaceful day and breaks with Norway's cultural heritage and history?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e239	To a party that spends a lot of time saying that this government doesn't deliver it that promised, it might be a good idea that we sometimes correspond to delivering exactly what we promised. The fact that I answered Jens Stoltenberg as I did was because there were strikingly few questions about what we promised, and what was important in the election campaign, in relation to areas where the red-greens have had promises – promises that we are not against, but that do not have such a high priority. Therefore, I think it is quite relevant to answer that we do what we promised, we do what we said to the voters in advance. On the other hand, I must say that I do not believe that I lose freedom if others get another freedom. I don't think that the concept of freedom needs to be defined from top to bottom, and that everyone else has to do what I have prioritised. I understand that there is a fundamental difference between red-green policy – the Workers’ Party – and a Right-Fremskritsparti-politik. We believe that it is possible to have a different day, even if others want to shop groceries that day.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e246	Per Olaf Lundtigen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e249	It is strong to hear that the Prime Minister strongly argues that all days should be quite the same – there should no longer be a difference between Sundays and weekdays. It's called social design, that we're opposed to change, that arguments are read out mechanically. It is strong to hear such things – after all, there are 370,000 people employed directly in the trade in goods. Many are employed in related industries. So this includes hundreds of thousands of people’s everyday lives and family lives. There are many common, practically good female labor ants in the trade in goods. Should we not treat those who work in the trade in goods as other industries – not take away Sunday-free when it is desirable on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e256	I believe it is quite real that there must be a discussion about what are employee rights and questions, and about what are common consumer and citizens issues. That is why we have said we should have a round with the parties about how we implement Sunday open shops – in what ways we can do it. It does not change the rights under the Working Environment Act. It does not change the working time arrangements in any area. And it's likely to aggregate more jobs to people who can work part-time today and who want to work part-time, for example. students and others. When I hear many of the arguments, they remind me very much of the arguments we were met with in the 1980s, when we expanded the opening hours, from the fact that all the shops closed at 1 p.m. 16.30/17.00 in normal days, and that they were allowed to open until 1 p.m. 19 a.m., maybe until 7 p.m. 20 – on Thursdays. This was also a challenge for the family life of employees and others. But no one today wants to reverse this system – they see it has given more freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e265	Karin Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e269	I agree with the Prime Minister that it is a good idea to go on a Monday. But it is very difficult to shop if it is closed. What we're experiencing now is that large chains of stores say that if they don't get to join up, shops are closed down. When the government says they are going to introduce Sunday open shops, the commercial industry says that then we have to close shops, because the calculation does not go up. They get higher expenses, but there is very little to suggest that people will then buy more heads of cabbage, bread and peas in boxes. That means that profitability goes down, and the store's death increases. Then it's a paradox that this government, for example. will introduce the Postal Directive, where the post office will not even go out on Saturdays, but you will have to introduce Sunday open shops, which will reduce the freedom to go shopping at the store, because many shops will be closed. Is that the government's goal?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e276	If you are going to have postal services on Saturdays, it is a purely national issue within the Postal Directive. It's a question of how much money we want to spend on subsidising that the bills are also sent in the mailbox on Saturdays, not just five other days a week. It is not the case that the Postal Directive entails anything else. Our main challenge with this is that people send so much less mail. You use e-mails and text messages and everything else to give messages, and letters have become a special sight. So it's not relevant as a comparison, I think, on this issue. If it's going to be the closure of stores, we'll see. It depends on what regulation we have in the future. It's quite possible for shops to have only open six days a week if that's what's profitable for those shops. If you think people will give priority to not doing so much on Sundays, they won't miss that much trade either. It is up to each store to assess whether there is something they want to exploit. There is no requirement for opening hours; there is a possibility of opening hours in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e283	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e286	At the six-month press conference yesterday, the Prime Minister, according to Today's Economy, warned that we could be on our way to a period of lower growth. Then it is a paradox that the budget procedure of the harvest has so far offered alarming signals from the government regarding the mainland industry. Fortunately, the proposal for changes in CO2 compensation and permitting legislation was reversed in comparison with the Left and Christian People's Party, but nevertheless many significant cuts remain in important measures against the mainland industry such as the forest industry, the food industry, fisheries, the whitefish industry, district-based travel and rural industry, through regional development funds. The mainland industry is important. It employs tens of thousands of workers throughout the country. In view of this, there is also a need to ask what will be the government’s future industrial policy course and whether the government considers active and targeted measures to be important to the mainland industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e296	The budget presented by this government to the Stortinget announced a significant shift in the pace of the things that contribute to the competitiveness of Norwegian industry and business in the years ahead. We did so in the areas that must be the most important in the future; innovation and innovation. That is why we also increased the funds associated with the innovation programmes to ensure that Norwegian businesses will become more competitive in the future. This is why we took care to address the two major areas that lead to strange expenditures, such as: by providing more money for road and road transport investment. It contributes to lower costs. For large parts of the goods-producing Norwegian industry, transport costs are among the areas that lead to increased costs for enterprises. In addition, we know that the strange tax on national, Norwegian ownership helps to confuse and change Norwegian ownership and makes it more expensive for a Norwegian to own an enterprise. What we know from previous reports is that Norwegian private ownership is more long-term also through difficult times than the quarterly capitalism is. Therefore, I believe it is important that we have a tax system that does not stimulate quarterly capitalism, but which, on the other hand, ensures that national, long-term ownership is part of the mix of ownership in Norway. Therefore, our changes in the tax system help to do so. There are many single programs, some of which have an effect, while others do not have such a good effect. Our big grip is just about more competitive; it's about making sure that mainland Norway's industry and business can face a future with more competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e305	I thank you for your answer. It was not so surprising in itself. The government's turnover has been significantly oversold. In my county, Nord-Trøndelag, only the reduction in regional development funds for business will amount to 30 million. kr i k cut. The increase in county roads is 7 million. kr. It's a significant downturn for a lot of states. In terms of taxes and tax systems, I see that the government is concerned about it, but my question was really whether the government is also concerned about an active and targeted industrial policy. Is one also concerned that the part of the mainland industry which employs tens of thousands of people, especially in the districts, should also have good and targeted arrangements, as we have seen that the red-green government, for example. proposed to the forest industry in our country, which is also important for, inter alia, food industry, marine industries and also agriculture? That was the question. Does the Prime Minister not see that in a – possibly – demanding economic period, especially in relation to the district industries, she should be investing more and not less in the important parts of the mainland industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e316	This government is also focusing on targeted instruments, but we are betting more than that. It is important to focus on the instruments that are not only for existing industry but also on the new ideas, the new environments, where new products can go out. It is very important for Norwegian competitiveness in the years to come that we also have space and funds related to innovation programmes that contribute to raising the whole new ideas. Our biggest challenge with regard to oil dependence is that almost no industries produce as much returns for a society as the type of natural resource harvesting industry that oil industry is. This means that we also need to have, in the future, alongside good framework conditions for those we have, mechanisms that help us to raise our innovative strengths, so that we get even better returns on existing and new industries in the years to come. That is why we have chosen to give more priority to innovation and research. That's what we see is most forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e323	Then it opens for follow-up questions – first Tryful Battle Force Vedum.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e326	Taxes have been an important part of the government’s explanation of why it is more legitimate to reduce the allocations to the mainland industry, as proposed by the government. However, in the government’s structure — which has been sub-communicated — there are direct tax increases for industry. The industry that grew last year — the only industry that grew last year — the food industry — was charged increased fees. The construction industry is subject to a historically high jump in the diesel charge. On the budget day, the removal of the inheritance fee was a great joy, but the consequences have been forgotten – the majority of the population have decided to investigate the consequences later. How does the Prime Minister feel that the budget has increased the direct tax burden on large parts of Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e333	In the agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government, we have said that we should strengthen the climate agreement. We have said that we must ensure that we also get a tax shift towards a more green tax regime. This includes, inter alia: that part of the major points of emissions in Norway will be subject to higher charges. We have increased the mineral oil tax in a strategy against what is in the climate agreement, that we are actually going to phase out in 2020, for example. oil boilers in Norway. It's natural to increase incentives early so that people start that work, and that we don't get a 'breast round' around 2020. I understand that some of the business impact proposals are not liked, but it is a consequence of a policy by a broad majority in the UK that we agree to strengthen the climate agreement. In fact, we also need to increase some of the charges that have an impact on emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e340	Else-May Botten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e344	We have been signaling some warning lights from business lately. The government has made clear priorities, says the Prime Minister. Yes, in the position taken by the Food and Agriculture Committee, we have seen in the autumn that government parties have significantly cut off instruments aimed at industries such as tourism, fisheries, agriculture and forestry, which are important continental industries, and many jobs. Does the Prime Minister see these cuts as part of increasing the two-way distribution of the Norwegian economy and contributing to unforeseeableness and passive industrial policy? I also wonder whether we can expect an active industrial policy, which has been asked by previous questions, with targeted action packages for industries that need it in the future, as the Stoltenberg government did with the shipbuilding and equipment supply industry, the wood industry, and not least growth packages?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e351	I'm concerned that we have to be able to do two things at once. One is that we must ensure that we have a good framework for Norwegian business for the future. We need to make sure that industrial policy has a long-term generation perspective, so that we maintain competitiveness, and that we develop jobs, which are safe for the next generations as well. We have had a great deal to do with research, development and cost reduction – i.e. the instruments I have already mentioned. We also want an active industrial policy, but it cannot be that we believe that we are solving the competitiveness problems of the future by just having selective instruments for individual industries. In fact, the most important thing we do for the future is to make sure that we further develop the industries of research, the base of competence, and that we are involved in the new technological paradigm shifts. That's why we also have a high priority on these types of instruments. It will make the fishing industry, the woodworking industry and other industries more robust for the future. The previous government chose packages, we choose good framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e360	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e363	When Left went to elections to get a new bourgeois government, one of the main reasons was that we need a more offensive environmental and climate policy. We also have a cooperation agreement with the government, where we say that the Nature Diversity Act is firm, in which there are also the intentions behind it, and also that we should strengthen the climate agreement. From the left, it was a little surprising when the government presented its platform, that climate and environment were not one of the eight main priorities of the government. But now we're assuming that we're going to relate to what the government is doing, and not necessarily what it's written. Although we have a good environmental budget for next year, negotiated in the Stortinget, the government's initiative in the field of classical environmental protection has largely been to facilitate the release of snowmobiles, there are signs that soil protection can be reduced in the future, and the plan department has been moved from the Ministry of Environment to the Ministry of Local Affairs. All of this is left critical. In the case of climate action, we need to have an enhancement of them. With regard to the climate agreement, by 2020 we will reduce Norwegian emissions by five million tonnes, i.e.: approx. four times Oslo's total emissions. Then my question becomes to the Prime Minister: What new measures does the Prime Minister see the government going in and out to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, not just by five million tonnes, as the climate agreement says, but by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e374	We can't go into it in detail now. We've said that we're coming back to Stortinget with a review of how we're reinforcing the climate agreement. I believe that what we have done in the budgetary agreement with the Left has helped us to go further. I believe that what we see from results, for example. in the passenger transport sector, lower emissions are at present. This is due, inter alia, to: that we have very good framework conditions for electric cars in Norway, which are now beginning to come up for discussion because there has been a policy debate on distribution around the new, fine electric cars. I think we have to stand firm on these questions. We have to be allowed to work through it. First of all, there are many things that have not been implemented. For example, we have to do this. phase out oil boilers by 2020. We have to have a good strategy to get it done. We need better energy-efficient construction. We need a good strategy to do that. We agree on that in today's conciliation. Then we come back with suggestions that help to reinforce it. In the transport sector, some of the important things are to ensure that we have a good plan for collective development around the big cities. I know that the soil protection issue is always difficult, for example. related to it. There is a target dispute in Norway between taking care of the land around the major cities and building effectively close to residential areas with a high level of public transport. We are faced with that dilemma every day, and part of the transformations that the government has made in terms of soil protection are just about developing the big cities. One of the environmentally friendly urban development premises is to ensure that it is easy to deploy a collective network at the same time. Take, for example: Akershus County, you can see that where it is allowed to build, there are all the places where there are no collective solutions today. There's a dilemma that makes us have to allow a little bit more construction somewhere, and make sure that we get more people who choose public transport to work rather than traveling by their own car.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e385	I note that the Prime Minister refers to the budgetary agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party when she refers to the offensive climate policy instruments in next year's budget and not to the government's original budget. The left will definitely take further responsibility to ensure that we have an offensive climate policy in Norway. Now the government is facing a decision on electrification of the Utsira height, including the Sverdrup field. Without electrification, this means an increase in emissions of 1 million tonnes. Then my question becomes: does the Prime Minister at all see that it will be possible to achieve Norway's ambitious climate targets without ensuring that the Utsira height is electrified?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e392	We need to see these questions in the context of how the web is structured, what becomes alternative sources elsewhere and what the total is also going to be in relation to it. But we're working on the assumption that we're now going to conduct electrification of the height of Utsira. That would be a good environmental contribution. Then we have to put in place all the different assumptions for what it means in the years to come in relation to other objectives of climate policy, and also that good grid capacity is to be expanded in the years to come. So to this if I see it's possible to achieve the goals. If we can't get to this, of course, we have to extend other targets. But the starting point for the government is that we should follow this up, in line with the big decision that exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e399	It opens for follow-up questions – first Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e402	There is a great responsibility on this government and on us who are going to make budgets with this government in the future, I hope, to take long-term action both for the climate and for classical environmental protection. We see what challenges we can face if we do not reverse climate policy. We've seen that through the weather reports of what's coming across our country in the last few months. It's also important to take care of the classic nature around us. Just before we entered here today, one of the largest children's and youth organisations in Norway, namely the youth of the Norwegian Tourist Association, had action outside the Stortinget. We have seen that almost all non-governmental organisations working in the field of nature have committed themselves strongly to the government in terms of the so-called trials on snowmobiles. Is this taking care of Norwegian nature for future generations?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e411	Yeah, I mean it. I believe that taking care of Norwegian nature is also allowing people to experience it in a slightly different way. I see this as the question of whether everything is intelligently managed in the bureaucracy and at Stortinget, or whether it is well managed in the municipalities as well. In that area, I and the representative Trine Skei Grande agree that the municipalities also have a lot of good public knowledge. What this attempt is about is, in fact, transferring the authority in this respect to the municipalities, and allowing them to make organized loops according to the usual regulatory mechanisms – the law on planning and building – not free-drops in the mountains, but allowing municipalities to make decisions about this. It's important to travel a lot of places. Winter travel in some areas, which have a lot of summer travel lives, can help to provide full-time work places. But at the same time, I am absolutely sure that the municipalities are able to carry out the assessment as well as what we are doing, or as the state bureaucrat does.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e420	Eva Kristin Hansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e424	Like the representative Elvesuen, I was disappointed that the government has not found room for climate change among its eight main areas of activity, and in my view, the Sundvolden Declaration is weak in terms of new measures in the field of climate change. In the additional proposition from the government, we saw that many important climate measures were being cut. At the same time, we have a government that has announced an increase in the rate of oil extraction and an increase in the rate of traffic development, and it was decided to go against the previous government's proposal for an increase in the rate of CO2 in the charge on heavier cars. Then my question to the Prime Minister – based on the sum of the Health Declaration and the government's proposed policy so far: Does the Prime Minister think that emissions in Norway will continue to fall, or that they are likely to rise, or can she guarantee that they will actually go down?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e436	I believe that with the measures we have proposed, emissions will decrease. I think it is a bit special to be criticised by the Labour Party for the fact that our eight bet proposals did not contain a specific proposal on the environment, because these are overall proposals relating to some reforms and areas we are going to work with. The environment and climate lie as a basic thread in the value base of this government. But I'm a little surprised that the Workers' Party has been so high on the agenda for this, because there must be a fundamental criticism of the Workers' Party's own programme. The Workers' Party's own programme for this period will focus on five areas. They're at the beginning of the program, and none of them are environmental or climate issues. I would not be as high and dark as the Workers' Party has been in the criticism of the Sundvolden platform, when the party itself has not prioritised climate and environment as one of the five most important challenges in the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e443	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e446	There is a need for a green shift, as we say in the cooperation agreement. That is why the Christian People's Party disagrees when the government's input into the EU's future climate policy has recommended only one objective, namely on climate change emissions. There is a need for a green shift, and to achieve the 2-degree target, we believe it is essential to have more targets, so we want to include a renewable energy target and one on energy efficiency improvement. The government has, as I said, been in favour of only one goal, and the question is then: what consequences will this have for the climate action at home, and is this in line with a reinforced climate settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e453	I've tried to figure out why you're so concerned about having more targets, when the overall goal is 2 degrees. The overall objective is to ensure that greenhouse gas emissions are kept in line with the 2-degree target. That is what we are proposing, and we are going to focus on what emissions we have. Emissions reduction strategies include, inter alia: Renewal effort because it is important — especially in Europe — to slow down the coal power and emissions associated with it. But I feel that this debate on what should be the goal, and whether there should be more objectives, is a discussion on what is the goal, and what is the strategy and the means to achieve that goal. We old social economists tend to say that the most important thing we can do is to make sure that we have one goal and one way to achieve it and focus on it. If we're going to reach the 2-degree target, we need to focus on the emissions, and then we need different strategies to achieve that goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e464	Geir Pollestad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e467	The production of renewable energy is an important part of the climate solution. The Government Platform promises to shorten the procedure for renewable energy concessions and promises that concession treatment for small, micro and mini-power plants will be transferred to municipalities. The oil and energy minister has promised fewer additional investigations. My question is: does this mean that you want to reduce the threshold in order to get a concession to expand hydropower, wind power and networks? Or ask in a different way: can more builders expect to get a yes to their concession application with the new government than was the case before?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e474	First of all, this is a shortening of time. So we know that what's always going to be the node in these areas is the connection to the web. But we want the most possible introduction of this kind of force. How profitable it is will depend on the profitability of each project itself. It will also be important whether it is qualified for — or is given the opportunity to enter — green certificates, so that investment can actually be made in this way. But I believe that with shorter time and with the changes we are proposing, more – assuming that the network where they are going to expand has the sustainability for this – will also be granted a concession.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e479	Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e482	If the Prime Minister had shown the same commitment to taking care of nature, as she does to open shops on Sunday, there would have been hope here. But with the background of the policy of the government, I do not see that hope. We see how priority is given to soil protection, we see that it is warned – for example in an interview in the VG before the elections – that it should be opened up for more construction in the beach zone, we heard the Minister for Oil and Energy say that the nature diversity law and its practice should be changed in order to allow for less emphasis on nature, we see how it is cut down after mining and opened up for more mining, and we see how 42,000 people have signed up to take care of nature and say no to snowmobile driving, but here they are overrun by the great attempt to get started. My question to the Prime Minister is: in what area will the new government preserve nature in a better way than what the red-green government did?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e491	We are concerned that we should achieve objectives in several areas at the same time, and sometimes there is a conflict between questions – for example. between achieving our climate objectives and having a very restrictive soil protection around the big cities. It's a dilemma that exists. Some of those who say in the debate that we should take into account in order to invest more in soil protection, for example. around Oslo, pointing out that we'd rather be able to build in Marka. There are dilemmas all the time about how we solve such questions. We have e.g. to say that a strategy that can be applied when we build on a well-adorable land, because it is a natural enlargement of a larger city, is good climate policy and provides better collective solutions, is to find replacement land that can be recycled. There are things that we will consider in the future, to ensure that the total amount of areas in which we can produce food is maintained in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e497	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e500	It was revealing that this government was unable to find a place for today’s most important challenge – climate and environmental issues – among its eight main areas of activity. And we've been confirmed that there was reason to worry about it by following the Prime Minister's agenda through the fall. It has become clear from the Prime Minister's various public performances, both here in Stortinget and elsewhere, that climate and environment are very low on the agenda of our new Prime Minister. At the moment, there is a decisive drive in the EU on the framework for climate and energy up to 2030. It will determine the EU's ambitious targets and the framework for the EU's action to reduce climate emissions. What the EU decides on will be crucial both for bringing more countries into a global, future climate agreement and for Norway’s ability to convert. For ambitious goals will help push the quota price upwards and thus help us convert here in Norway. In such a picture, it would be thought that Norway was a country with the greatest interest in an ambitious position. However, no, the government has now signaled that it intends to play into the Commission in the near future: no support for the most ambitious EU countries in terms of the highest possible target for emissions reduction, and thus resistance to the Commission’s proposal that the EU should have three objectives – not just a CO2 target, but a renewable target and an energy efficiency target. Is it convenient for the Prime Minister, after an election campaign in which she has promised a more offensive climate policy, to place Norway firmly in the camp of climate change in Europe through these EU recordings?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e516	I totally disagree with the description of both what has been my agenda and what we are playing towards the EU, for which we have consulted and actually achieved a broad consensus in the European Committee on Climate Change in relation to the objectives of the EU and the development of new climate policies by 2030. I believe that what we are promoting is ambitious. What we have said is that the main road and the main objective must be absolutely clear: the two percent target for the world, and that it is the emissions of CO2 that must be controlling. Everything else is an instrument on that path. Renewal is an instrument and not an end in itself, in my opinion. It is an instrument for achieving what is important in climate policy, namely that emissions do not increase. It's a very good tool, and that's why we're very much in favour of developing it. But we think it's a little strange that the instruments are raised to targets. This is when it is very easy to achieve the objectives of renewable efforts, but not the goal, namely to ensure that we do not go beyond the two-percent emissions in the world. That's what's crucial for all of us, the issue of climate emissions is going to be so big. So you can see that there is a mass in terms of renewables, but it is not possible to achieve what the entire climate debate is about, namely to prevent CO2 emissions. That's why we think it's cleaner. What we're recording is a very clear tightening of the trading system itself, or the quota system. We believe it is important, because having a low quota price in Europe today helps to ensure that large sectors regulated by quotas do not have the strong incentives to invest in new technologies that help reduce emissions. It's still a major act, we've agreed in the climate agreement that is a major act for large parts of national policies as well. Then we have to make sure that the EU, which determines the framework around the quota system, actually has a clear and ambitious line to tighten on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e531	It is difficult to claim that Norway’s recordings are ambitious when they both support those countries in the EU that want the least ambitious targets. There is a debate on whether the EU should have a 40 pst emission target. No decision is taken by Norway. There is a debate on whether or not to have three objectives. I understand that the Prime Minister does not see the benefits of three objectives, but a renewable target, that is to say, a crucial target of the great renewable effort that Germany is now going through. Without this kind of concrete objective, more responsibility for cutting emissions to an allowance system that is not working today – why? I repeat my first question: does the Prime Minister feel comfortable placing Norway in the same camp as the most cautious countries in Europe? And why does she have such strong faith in the quota system that she doesn't want to make sure that there are targets that go beyond that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e538	I believe that the whole climate policy is rooted in one issue, and that should be the main objective, namely to reduce emissions. Then it's very easy in politics to say that we achieved the other two goals, but we didn't achieve the most important thing. Then it actually has a little bit of value to achieve the other two goals, if we don't achieve the most important thing, that the emissions go down. That's why we think it's important to have it as the main goal – that that's what the goal is. It is very easy to make a lot of policies in areas such as: regulating more renewable energy. But if it doesn't result in enough emissions from coal, or we don't reach the other targets, it has a little less value. We think it's a good tool on the road, but when we raise one goal as the most important thing, it's because it's the goal that's all anchored in, that's to make sure that climate emissions don't create the big changes and get so high that we get, and see, a world that's under great change, with many kids who have to experience that their homes are disappearing, and all the dramatic effects that it has. Then that's the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e545	There will be follow-up questions – first Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e548	With all due respect, there are two things we want to achieve. One is to reduce emissions, but the other is to convert to the zero-emission society. Looking at Europe today, we are reaching the target of reducing CO2 emissions due to the financial crisis. But it does not contribute to conversion just by reducing CO2 emissions. In Germany, we see, among other things: that there is an increase in the use of coal-fired power plants, i.e. the opposite of what you want, because you don't have a width of measurement – but you reach the CO2 target. If I can ask the simple question – when the government says that you want to reach the two-degree goal, but you don't specify what you think it means for the ambitions of the European Union, you really don't say anything: like the least ambitious countries, you want to go for a policy of 35 pst. reduce, you're going to go for 40 pst, or you're going to do what the environmental movement says, go for 50 pst. or 60 pst. reductions? It is crucial because EU targets in this field determine the allowance price in Europe and Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e564	As we have informed, the government has not proposed a specific objective related to this. We're concerned that we're going to have ambitious targets in the future, but that the two percent target must be what's crucial. So I disagree with the description that having just one goal – having the important goal – is not ambitious. But we've said that it's important that we make sure that we bring down the coal and the coal production. One of the things we work hard for in the government is to provide the capacity mechanisms that are now being established around the EU markets in order to be able to fill when renewable energy does not provide energy, because it is a challenge. When the sun does not shine, and when the wind does not blow, others must enter. That's where the coal has got a reindeer. We know that Norwegian gas and Norwegian electricity can contribute to being that buffer. Then we have to be sure that we get into the mechanisms established in the countries around us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e571	Sveinung Rotevatern – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e574	The left agrees that we need a tight quota market in Europe and that it is the most important instrument. But if there's one thing that's shown us in the last few years, it's how crucial it is to work on more fronts than that, not least to develop technology when it comes to renewable investment, for example. The fact that the quota market has not worked well enough when there has been a low economic downturn is probably the reason why the Commission has, in a reasonable way, suggested that they should have more targets. The Prime Minister said that the government's line was widely endorsed by the European Selection Board. I can't remember that, and both from the left's side, from the SV's side, and from the Christian People's Party's side, we clearly flagged that we should have more goals. However, my question to the Prime Minister goes a little further, because not all sectors are covered by the quota market: what is the government's objective that one should address the sectors of the EU's climate policy in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e583	It is important to say that when the target is initially the emissions, it also means that the allowance market does not respond to all emissions. That's exactly what the representative says. This means that targets must also be developed in those areas not covered by the quota emissions. It must be part of the further development of EU policies. I can't say on the stand that we've made recommendations for different areas, but for example. in the case of passenger services, it is important to achieve the objectives, even if not each part of them is within the quota area. There are also questions about the additional areas covered by the trading of allowances in the coming years. At national level, we are committed to using both taxes and taxes — regulatory mechanisms — to reduce emissions in other areas. We also have incentives through financial support, such as: what we agree on is that we are going to implement, a tax deduction for energy-saving investments for individual households, and for which the government is now working on developing the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e591	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e594	First, I hope it's been a delay from the Prime Minister when she talked about the two-percent target, because that should be the two-degree target. What's important is that it's not cut to 2 pst, but that we're actually going to cut maybe as much as 85 pst. or even more by 2050. It is crucial for the Christian People's Party – that we create a sustainable system that ensures that when we reach 2050, emissions should actually go down to zero. It's true, as many people have said, that you have to go from coal to coal, for example. gas, but it is essential to convert completely into renewable energy. That's why it has, among other things, have been important to the Christian People's Party for a clear ambition to produce more renewable energy, but also for more energy efficiency. Because nothing is more environmentally friendly than the energy we don't need to use. When I listen to the Prime Minister, she argues very well for just one goal. In Norway, we have more targets – we need a target for energy efficiency improvement, and we need to produce more renewable energy. I do not perceive the Prime Minister wrong – when she has such great faith in one goal – that she wants to change that policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e607	I feel sometimes that these debates can become a little special. When you have one main goal, there will of course be a lot of tools that you create goals on. It is clear to us that it is quite natural that we have objectives in a wide range of areas to achieve the main objective, namely that CO2 emissions should decrease, and that we should reach the two-degree goal – it is absolutely right that what I was going to say was the two-degree target, not the two-percent target. I feel that this is a bit of a skin discussion, because no one disagrees that we should have strong goals to get more renewable energy. But raising one goal at the top, which really means something, at least I want to be a very important and right thing of the European Union – precisely because, as I said instead, if you have three goals and they are perceived as equal, you can achieve a lot in an area, but on the main goal you're actually not in port. And then it doesn't have much value, what you've done in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e617	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e620	In this questionnaire, the Prime Minister has repeatedly argued that the government makes one or the other choice because the voters have asked for it. I would therefore like to remind you that the Right very offensively went to the choice of both ongoing kindergarten admissions and better quality in kindergartens. It's actually on page 10 of the Right Program. I therefore think it's a little special to hear the Prime Minister from the Stockholm pulpit create the impression that this is something Right has never meant. I also think it is a bit strange to hear the Prime Minister justifying cutbacks in the kindergarten area almost because it has asked the voters to get. Then it is that economic autonomy is a prerequisite for individual freedom. Therefore, it is a fundamental objective of modern equality policies to facilitate the economic independence of women and men, while at the same time having the opportunity to provide care for families and children. In the extension of that, I also think there is a very broad consensus in the Norwegian community that this is a goal that should also apply to the immigrant population. There, on a number of occasions, at least before the elections, the Right has argued well why we should facilitate the inclusion of more immigrant women in work. On the Right's websites, it says, among other things.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t ‘If we are to succeed in achieving a multicultural and diverse society, much more immigrant women need to be encouraged to take part in education and participation in the labour market.’ It goes on to say: ‘Right will work to strengthen the opportunities of immigrant women to take an active part in working life, which is essential for good integration.’ I fully agree with that. But what's interesting to see is that in practice, right-hand policies increases cash support, babysitting and reintroducing tax class 2. Does the Prime Minister think this will contribute to fewer or more immigrant women in working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e643	I fully agree that it is important for integration policy that mothers learn Norwegian, participate in Norwegian society and participate in the labour market. It is governing the integration policies to be implemented. That's why it's good in itself that from having full tax class 2 last year, the next year is halved. There is something about this practice of the Workers' Party in these debates; one forgets that last year you were for a system that would give twice as much deduction as it is going to be next year. So we're on our way. But we have also said that there are some families who are changing, and taking large amounts from a family that has adapted, to which the Labour Party's arrangement put in place, we think, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party, that was reason to make changes in. It is then important to have targeted measures to increase the number of immigrant women in the labour market. One of them is to make sure that we quickly recognize the skills they have at home. It's on our list of things we have to do. Making sure that, in our A4 education system, we are better equipped to create modular schemes that allow people who come with training from home to fill the areas they need for it to work in Norway, so that they can easily and quickly get back to work — and see that they can use their job as relevant for it. So it's very important for some groups that we continue the work that was started under the Bondevik II government, the so-called New Chance Program. It was a programme that focused on the fact that those who had been at home for a long time, away from work, part of those who had been on social assistance for a long time, would have enough experience to go on through long-term work in an out-of-work job — to get in. I believe that this type of action is targeted and important. So I believe that the integration debate is often used as a camouflage for an arrangement that you don't like, namely cash support. The working party has never equal cash support, and then you use integration as... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e656	I noted that the Prime Minister did not answer my question about whether government policy will help fewer or more immigrant women to participate in the labour market. I ask the Prime Minister to answer that question. What is the matter is that the government not only increases the cash support, but also plans to extend it to two-year-olds. We know that a major challenge, among other things: Here in Oslo School, many children can't Norwegian well when they start school. In 2009 it was like 80 pst. of the two-year-olds who received cash support had a migrant background. The Prime Minister does not see the problem that these kids will get a tougher start to school when you increase the cash support and at the same time kiss the kindergarten offer – only in Oslo by 50 million. kr. ?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e665	I think that if we implement what we have as measures in our policies, it will help that more immigrant women will participate in the labour market. An active integration policy aims to involve as many of them as possible. That's why I think I can say quite bramlessly that we're going to do more effort than the previous government actually did in that area and in other groups that are out of work. The effort must have parameters other than simply cutting welfare schemes in Norway in order to get people out of work — it must actually be focused on what can be barriers for them to get into work, such as: knowledge and competence. So I fully agree that it is important that children can Norwegian before they start school. That is one of the reasons why we introduced four-year-old stuff the last time I joined the government, and we made sure that we had follow-up offers related to testing. I still think that's important. We're going to have an active job to make sure that every kid who starts school is able to learn from day one in a Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e674	It opens for one follow-up question – from Eirik Sivertsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e677	I will give the Prime Minister right in one thing – the Workers' Party does not like the cash support. It's not because we basically have something against the cash support, but because the effect of it leads to lower employment and lower professional participation, especially among women. This leads to less productivity and leads to more people not economically independent. It has also stated in its comments – they are concerned about the sustainability of the Norwegian welfare state, among others. because the participation of migrant women in employment is very low. I really just have a simple question, because I don't think the Prime Minister answered Helga Pedersen's questions well enough. My question is: Does the Prime Minister not agree that more expensive kindergartens, increased cash support and increased cash support reduce the proportion of immigrant women in the working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e684	I agree that those measures can help someone to stay at home a little longer with their children during periods. However, it is not the measures that help Somali or Afghan women to stay at home – it is the two women’s groups in Norway that have the lowest professional participation. There is a lack of education that makes them get a job in Norway, which is one of the challenges. Language skills are the second challenge. If we are able to give them inputs in these areas, we are much more able to get them to participate in Norwegian employment. I note that in one area of policy – and not in other areas – the Workers' Party is most concerned with financial penalties or with taking welfare benefits from users, and that is in integration policy. In this area, I don't think they're quite meeting in terms of what are the barriers to professional participation. For these large groups, the competences of those coming to Norway are measured against our skills needs, which are going to be one of the greatest challenges. That's where I think we're going to put the effort together.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e692	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e704	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments are proposed for approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 11 and 12 from the representatives of Sverre Myrli and Anniken Huitfeldt, respectively, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of State at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and relations with the EU on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 18, from the representative Kjersti Toppe to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, lapses, as the questioner is not present. Question 20, from the representative of Arild Grande to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, who will direct him.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e721	My question goes to the Prime Minister: ‘It has been a long time since we have had a female Prime Minister. Gro Harlem Brundtland's reigns gave Norwegian women solid steps towards a more equal society. We need to get back in time to find such a poor gender balance between women and men among state secretaries and advisers in a Norwegian government that is now. The Prime Minister has said, ‘We have found the ones we think are the most capable and the best for the jobs we have now.’ Does not the signal effect concern the Prime Minister?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e735	Never before has Norway had such a woman-dominated government as that of today. 50 pst. of the members of the Government, women. For the first time, both are numbers. 1 and No 2 of the government women. That means that we have a historic women's power government. I believe the signal effect of this is great. They are good and should be something you could enjoy. So it's that we haven't done the same great and good composition in terms of the team of state secretaries and political advisors. There's a majority of men, and I've said that I should like to work on getting better. But I don't think it's any negative signal effect to say that we've chosen the ones that are the best, and the ones that are the best, to do these problems. In a knowledge society like Norway, we should always choose those that are the best, and those that are the best. If it was such that I felt that I had women who were better at individual posts here than men, I should of course have chosen them, but that was not where we were when we formed the government. I am concerned that we as a primary norm for why we choose people, should always have knowledge and competence into political spheres as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e742	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his answer. I'll give the Prime Minister the right in that it's good that we have a government where half of the councils are women and half are men; that's good. But I think it is alarming when the Prime Minister says that only 17 women out of 60 were found competent to form the staff in the various departments. The fact that we are many women in Norway in political positions is the result of political choices that have been made over time, and the Prime Minister himself was a member of a government that introduced quotas in the ASA regimes. Then my question is, why is it so important that we have women in the ASA regimes, when we don't need women in the management of important departments? For example, in the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Transport, there are no women in political leadership. Isn't that a step backwards for equality?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e753	It is not that we have not found women who would be competent here, but the question was whether they would be the most capable. This country deserves to get the most capable politicians, regardless of geography and gender, into the roles. Then we have chosen those that, in our opinion, are most competent in the areas where we have inserted them. Fortunately, there are many women, and I think there will be even more women in the years to come. Then I fully agree that we should have had even more, and we are working on that. Our parties – like other parties – are working intensively to recruit more capable girls. Unfortunately, studies carried out still show that 12 pst. of men can imagine a political function, but only 5 pst. by the women can imagine that. We still have a common job to do. But we in the Right Party or in the Advance Party have never added up to quotaing for political office, unlike the Workers' Party, because we've always thought that we should choose those who are most capable of these jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e760	I record that the Prime Minister has no opinion on quotaing in the ASA regimes. It might have been interesting to hear what the Prime Minister thinks about it, because there are quota rules in place. So there's another question. We've all the time lately, after the Solberg government joined, heard that we're seeing a new direction in gender equality policy. That's interesting. One year ago, a large population survey showed that people in Norway were very satisfied with the gender policy pursued. In fact, there was a big progress, on the whole 9 pst., on this field. 74 pst. found that we had a good gender equality policy in Norway. Are the grips that are now being made, for example: What we see with so few female members in the departments, an expression of a new equality policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e767	When it comes to the relationship between the ASA Boards and advisers and state secretaries, I have to say that I don't see it. In a government with 50 pst. women – and if one is to compare with a government where both the chairperson and the vice-chairman are women – we are well-informed in AS Norway to be in line with the ASA legislation on allowances. But no one has suggested that we provide quotas at all levels downwards in terms of who participates and works around in Norwegian companies. At least those who have proposed it have never had a big impact on it. And so it is, in our opinion, not in politics either. Is it the case that equality policy is changing? Yes, there's a slightly different equality policy with this government than with the previous one. We're concerned that we're going to make sure that women have equal opportunities. We're concerned that women should be given the opportunity to use their qualifications. We're a little less concerned with detailing people's privacy than what the red-green government was.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e778	«Government policy weakens the links between women and the labour market, and therefore their pension rights. State Secretary Brodtkorb has stated that it is not a state task to help correct the bias. Earlier this year, the Prime Minister said, ‘For the ladies who are at home here, I would recommend having a conversation with their husband about pension insurance for the future.’ Does the Prime Minister believe that equality between men and women is a policy task, or is it up to the individual woman to negotiate for herself?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e785	Since I have seen Labour Party representatives use this quote in this detached form sometimes, I thought I would read the entire quote. What I said at a big Christian conference in Oslo was: ‘Red-green equality policy is based on a society where all people are A4 with the need for equal solutions. I have little faith in that. On the contrary, I believe that we as individuals and families can make decisions that are best for us. But we're going to be sincere, and we're going to know that that means you might miss something else, for example, economic gain. For those women here today who are at home, I would recommend having a conversation about their husband about pension insurance for the future. I tend to say that divorce happens even if we don't like it. [[...]] It's actually a good and well-meaning advice for women who have made a different choice. It is not a political strategy that women should not be active, but it is a advice I hope that the representative Helga Pedersen would also give to women who have chosen not to be fully active. The greatest drama for them often happens at the moment when family life breaks down. We are concerned that as many people as possible are active in the labour market. I do not agree that our policy weakens women's relationship with the world of work, but I believe that in periods of life both men and women can make choices other than the solution that the Workers' Party has prescribed for everyone: taking the leave period with exactly the distribution that the Workers' Party thinks is good, and having full connection to the working life. I believe it is an objective that we should bring down as much of the involuntary part-time as possible. That's why I'm concerned that we, for example. must work with working time arrangements and turns to do so. I think a little more creativity in working life could make it possible for a lot more women to get a better pension base, a better age and a better relationship to work, simply by facilitating a little more alternative ways of working, for example. in the health and care sector. I believe that the important thing is that we are able to balance the individual's desire to live their lives with the needs they have. And then I think it's absolutely right to say that choosing you're different, you can't always assume that the public is going to compensate for the financial loss you have. It's actually an own investment, for example. in being with their children for a long time, for which the public cannot fully compensate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e801	I thank you for the answer, but I don't think it clarified my fundamental question, namely whether the Prime Minister believes it is a responsibility for policy to balance economic differences between people, including the economic differences between women and men. What's my big concern is the sum of all the actions Right and Government stands for. In the spring, we remember, the Right Party and the Advance Party voted against the legislative proposals to strengthen women's right to full time. Now the cash support has been increased, to further expand it, has carried out large welfare cuts in the form of higher nursery prices, cut 7 000 kindergartens to next year, decreased the quality of the municipalities, smaller paper sizes, etc. The problem is that this weakens the opportunities for women both to be economically independent and to care for family and children. How does the Prime Minister view the long-term distribution implications of this policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e806	I think Helga Pedersen should be a little bit more neat about the way she talks about what other parties propose, and what other parties have done. We backed up on the question of full-time entitlement, but we disagreed with the government's way of giving it the right to full-time, because the right to full-time was linked to the exact full-time position you had today. That couldn't necessarily be true. So we have another suggestion, about what we want, that we're going to work on further investigating. It depends on the fact that, with a slightly longer average calculation, you will have a full-time entitlement that is more adapted to what the trade unions also wanted. The main question here was this: Does the Prime Minister think equality between men and women is a policy task? The answer to that is yes. On the question of whether it is up to the individual woman to negotiate for herself, I believe that the public cannot always compensate for the choices you make. I assume that Helga Pedersen also agrees with me, that we should not compensate for those who choose to live lives that make them not completely active throughout their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e813	I note that the Prime Minister obviously does not like to be reminded of what the Right voted for and against in the previous period, and also does not like to be reminded of the very clear election vows that the Right gave in the election campaign about both continuous admission and better quality in kindergarten. But now leave it. I believe that the policy should facilitate the freedom of individuals and that individuals should be able to make choices that suit themselves. But my question, which I still do not think has been answered, is whether the government will pursue a policy and have a structure that reduces the economic differences between women and men, and whether the Prime Minister has at all assessed the long-term consequences of the economic distribution between women and men with the measures that are now being implemented, which de facto will lead to lower professional participation in women.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e820	The question that was asked was asked in writing, and it is answered. The question was: ‘Does the Prime Minister think that equality between men and women is a policy task’. I have responded clearly and unequivocally to that. On the question of whether it is ‘up to the individual woman to negotiate herself’, I have said that when choosing life forms that are completely different, the public cannot compensate. Then I think you should negotiate a little at home about a pension plan, whether one or the other chooses to be at home. Now when Helga Pedersen adds other leads for what's really the question, I would say, we disagree on what gives the best equality, given the detailed management that the Workers' Party has provided. We propose to make sure that all the girls are rusted out to make choices that make them have choices in the future as well. I mean, for example. that the real emphasis of this government will be an important contribution to gender equality. The fewer girls who choose to take a real job, the fewer opportunities they have to choose some occupations and educations later. The main source of much ‘unequality’ in Norway today is also the fact that for a long, long time we have had one of the world’s most sex-shared labour markets. There we should start the gender equality policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e831	‘The Ministry of Finance recently announced that the Directorate of Economic Management will now be located in three geographical locations, including: in Oslo, instead, in eight places throughout the country, as today. [[FROATING]] 25 State competence jobs are thus disappearing from North Norway. Can the Council of State see that a desired rationalisation gain in any reorganisation can equally be obtained by moving state activities out of the capital rather than the opposite?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e838	This government is concerned with the modernisation of the public sector. The terms of the Cooperation Agreement on the ‘most effective use of Community resources’ shall be followed up. The government will emphasise that structural changes should have a good regional balance. Where there are sufficient savings opportunities and there is a sufficient recruitment basis, the government will also consider facilitating the development of State jobs outside the press areas. I would like to remind you that, in connection with the reorganisation of the Directorate of Economic Management, we are not moving one single job to Oslo. In the study of many different options for the Directorate for Economic Management, it was also assessed to bring together the financial services in Oslo. However, this option was rejected, it was too expensive and gave too much risk during the conversion phase. Instead, when we want to streamline, we choose to bring together the business in those places where there are already heavy trade unions for pay and accounting. This gives the greatest gain to taxpayers. There is also a lower risk during the implementation phase. For this business, Stavanger and Trondheim are the best option. But I agree with the Knutsen representative that rationalization gains can be obtained in many ways and in many places. Here we must not be bound by preconceived attitudes. This government is too efficient, and we will evaluate carefully and on a case-by-case basis both where and how we can find the biggest gains. Then the main consideration must be that we use public funds effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e847	I thank you for your answer. The council repeated what she said in the debate on Friday. This rationalisation gain, to which she referred, is based on the internal report presented by the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs. There are many aspects of the calculations you're doing, for example: that some people should move after, and that you get a savings because you can use skills. It has not been taken into account that many people may not move after you have to start teaching people – at all, there are many uncertainties in those calculations. What I'm very excited about is that the department didn't use more than a button week, or about. 10 days, to conclude in that report. Can the Council of State promise that the Department will use better time and work a little more thoroughly to pass the calculations on future rationalisation projects, for example. in the case of State activities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e852	It is absolutely right that I repeat many of the arguments I used in the debate on Friday. It is related to the fact that I mean the same thing today that I thought on Friday, that it was right to do the steps we did with the Directorate of Economic Management, because we are also busy managing taxpayers' money in the right way. I have problems understanding why it is a problem that what underlies the conclusion of the government is reflected in the internal report, which came from the directorate itself, which is designed by the directorate itself, and in understanding and cooperation with the employees of the directorate. So it's clear that someone will have a different view of this. It's always like that when you go through conversion processes. The important thing is that, as a government, we have one overall goal: to manage taxpayers' money properly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e859	I do not think that the Council of State answered the question of whether you want to spend more time, because there is a lot of uncertainty about these calculations, and the trade unions and the employees did not at all agree with the conclusion reached by the Director. I have a question a little bit in the extension of this. It was said in the debate on Friday that the decentralisation of state activities should in no way be used to save the districts, as was stated – I think the Council of State used those words. However, the question is: can such decentralisation save state-owned businesses – the fact that state-owned businesses might get better, maybe get a different perspective, a little different people, if you don't collect everything, for example. in the centre of the capital, that being decentralised, at least to some extent, in itself may be important for the job of government directorates and agencies?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e866	This government doesn't have the ambition to gather everything in Oslo Center. Rather, it is against one overall ambition to set up state-owned activities in such a way that we provide good services to the inhabitants of Norway. The question was whether we would take better time to evaluate this type of process. I am concerned that we should take the right time, and that we should base ourselves on good professional judgements, which underpin the final political decisions taken. But then the question is, what is district policy? For me, district policy is about a lot. It is about providing good infrastructure, which reduces travel time and costs for Norwegian business. It's about tax policy. It is about a wide range of instruments that make it possible to operate all around the country and live around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e879	‘In the comments on the perspective announcement, the government parties agreed with the Stoltenberg government that we are totally dependent on more jobs, and so on. However, the government has adopted a budget that weakens the working line by stimulating women to stand out from work. Employers’ and employees’ organisations have warned against this policy. How does the Council of State feel that these women should be replaced and that employment should be maintained and increased?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e886	High employment is one of the cornerstones of Norwegian society. It is important for value creation in Norway that as much work as possible and that work is carried out as far as possible. The budgetary agreement focuses on measures to stimulate value creation, promote growth and employment. This applies not least to the changes we have made to the tax regime. Reduced taxes on general income promote labour incentives. I assume that the claim that the budgetary decisions weaken the working line does not relate to the whole of the budget, but to the changes made to the cash support scheme, babysitting and tax class 2. I would like to stress that those changes are small compared to what was contained in the draft budget of the Stoltenberg government, and in part are a reversal towards the arrangements that the Stoltenberg government found sufficient in previous years. I would also like to remind you that, in some cases, consideration for work should be balanced against other considerations, including fundamental values in our society related to the family's ability to be with their own children. We need to strike a good balance between the possibility of care at home, especially when children are young, and the means we use to stimulate a maximum proportion of the population to be at work. Then we have to see the tax system and welfare systems in the context. Occupational participation among women has increased over a long period of time and is now closely opposed to the participation of men. Higher education levels and a family-friendly labour policy with broad political support are important reasons for this. The employment rate for women with children under school age is probably 15 percentage points higher than the overall female employment rate. The part-time share of these mothers is also clearly lower than the part-time share of women in general. In other words, women with young children have a close link to work today. I would also like to stress that it is not a requirement that a parent be at home to receive cash support. The figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that about 65 pst. by the cash beneficiaries, in effect, are in operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e903	In the context of the perspective announcement, all the parties agreed that our most important challenge is to get more people to work, and that more people have to work longer. It is about the sustainability of the welfare state in the long term. Then it would be very easy for the government, if they still agree that it is a challenge, not to make it less profitable for women to work. The Council of State said that the measures to increase cash support and cut paperbacks are small measures. Yes, there may be small measures in a budget, but it has great consequences, because we know that too many, especially women, are reducing freedom of choice. Where one could previously participate in the labour market and combine it with the role of parent, the government's proposal today will pay less to work. When we also know that the government has a policy in which they have announced that they will reverse the measures of the Stoltenberg government for increased entitlement to full time, we see a change in course. We see a government that stimulates fewer women to work, and that more women are locked in part-time. Is the government's new measure a warning that the workline has been broken by this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e912	There were a lot of claims here and a lot of crazy claims. There is a broad consensus in Norwegian policy that it is important to facilitate more people working and to work as far as possible. Then it should worry the representative of the Trettebergstien a lot more that we have about 600 000 people in pre-employment who are today on the outside of the labour market. There is a problem this government is taking seriously, and this government is going to take action to facilitate entry into the labour market, which too many feel is an insurmountable obstacle. At the same time, it is important to have mechanisms that provide sufficient flexibility. Then it is likely that one of the differences in Norwegian policy is the idea of having confidence that individuals and individual families themselves can make choices that suit them and their everyday lives, depending on whether they have young children or older children or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e919	The working line is the principle that it should pay off to work, and that as much as possible it should be stimulated to work. That's what the work movement has built our welfare state on. We know that Norwegian women's professional participation is worth more than our oil. Does the Council of State feel that paying workers for not working is sustainable policy for the welfare state of Norway, and does the Council of State disagree that access to labour is our main challenge in the future? If not, what is the Government's strategy to counteract government's own policies and get more women to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e926	I fully agree that it is important to facilitate that it is worthwhile working and stimulating as much as possible to work. At the same time, I am also concerned that a society is built on several values. It's also a value for very many families to have time and opportunity to be a little bit more with their children when these are in the maybe the most vulnerable phase of life. We want to facilitate that freedom of choice. And then we have confidence that the individual family itself is able to make that kind of assessments. But to be able to choose, you have to have something to choose from. There is a significant difference in the view of instruments and the use of instruments between the previous government and this government. We provide real freedom of choice and leave to the individual family to make the choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e937	With a mother from Iceland, I have the pleasure of paying great attention to what the Icelandics are doing, and also the courage of them to make independent, unfair provisions both in terms of the economy and the settlement of Europe, and in terms of questions relating to the Data Storage Directive. So my question to the Council of State is: ‘Can the State Council state the status of Iceland’s introduction of the EU Data Storage Directive and what significance for Norway that the Directive has not been approved by all EEA countries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e944	As you know, Iceland has not been willing to include the EU Data Storage Directive in the EEA Agreement. It is such that decisions in the EEA Committee to include EU legislation in the EEA Agreement are based on unanimity. Therefore, the Directive has not become part of the EEA Agreement. As long as the Data Storage Directive is not part of the EEA Agreement, we are not obliged to implement it either. But we do it anyway because electronic traffic data can be crucial in the investigation of serious crime. In 2011, the Storting agreed to incorporate the Data Storage Directive into the EEA Agreement and at the same time adopted legislative changes to implement the Directive into Norwegian law. These changes were scheduled to enter into force in April 2012, but this has since been postponed, and the goal is now to get everything in place in the next year. In our implementing legislation, we have focused on finding the right balance between privacy and crime prevention. We therefore want electronic traffic data to be stored for a maximum of 6 months, not for 24 months, for which the directive opens. We have also stressed that traffic data should only be used in the investigation of more serious crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e955	The President reminds us that when questions are asked to the Councils, only the main question is to be referred, and not another introduction in addition.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e958	The Data Storage Directive weakens privacy and violates fundamental legal principles. The impact on the fight against crime has been low in those countries where it has been introduced and the Directive has proved expensive to introduce. Can the Council of State explain why it is then urgent to introduce the Directive before Norway is obliged to do so by the EEA Agreement? Does he think that the benefits of the directive outweigh the disadvantages I have just mentioned?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e965	The Data Storage Directive has a potential role to play in combating crime. It is early to determine or to assess its impact at all, but it is clear that the possibilities it offers for more effective crime prevention are important. I can't see that we've moved forward fast in this process. That Directive was adopted in 2006. It was not until five years later that we were prepared by the Norwegian side to include it in the EEA Agreement and made the necessary changes to Norwegian law. This occurred after a thorough debate in which all the questions raised by the representative Mr Ingebrichsen were well-explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e972	A report from the Danish Ministry of Justice says that the police have major problems in seeing that the Data Storage Directive has helped to catch criminals. I wonder if this would raise concerns for the Council of State in its eagerness to get it started.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e977	It is important that in all national implementation of EEA legislation, we monitor and assess the impact and address issues in dialogue with the EU. Of course, it is also important in national contexts that we follow what is effective and prove to be effective, combating crime. However, the directive has been implemented in most EU countries, including Denmark. I think it's way too early with bombastic warnings that it's not effective. Should this prove to be the case, there is a debate that needs to be taken, but the directive provides a starting point, with the permission to use electronic traffic data to combat serious crime and with a number of guarantees against its abuse.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e988	‘5. On April 2011, the Right Party and the Labour Party decided to introduce the Data Storage Directive. Now it is almost three years since the decision was taken, and Norwegian citizens are still free of state registration. In the meantime, the Directive has been known as unconstitutional in all EU countries, where it has reached the highest court in the country, and the EU is now going to revise the Directive. Well, the Council of States should make sure that we're in front of Brussels, but couldn't it be smart in this case to keep a little?'
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e995	It is true that the Data Storage Directive has been controversial in the EU, as in Norway, and it is true that the Directive has been tried in national courts in some EU Member States. For example, the German Constitutional Court found that the German implementing law of the Data Storage Directive was contrary to the German Constitution. However, it is true that all EU countries, with the exception of Germany, have now implemented the Directive and there is agreement between the parties in the new German Grand Coalition that joined yesterday on the implementation of the Directive. As you know, it is now a test of the validity of the directive for EU law, where the Advocate-General of the Court of Justice of the European Union has concluded that the directive violates the EU Charter of Fundamental Rights. There he has not stated that the purpose is illegitimate. The purpose of the Directive is considered legitimate, but there is the possibility of storage for up to two years considered to constitute a disproportionate intervention. Here the decision is expected early next year. I cannot see, given that we have had a five-year process between the directive's decision and until we were prepared by Norwegian side to include it in the EEA Agreement, that we have acted rashly in this matter. We have chosen to implement it because electronic traffic data can be crucial in the investigation of serious crime. Here we are in line with the Member States of the European Union. In implementing legislation, we have focused on finding the right balance. It is a well-known case that in the agreement of the previous magnification period, Right-wing emphasis was placed on limiting the time spent storing electronic traffic data. We have gone for a period of 6 months, not 24 months, for which the directive opens. That is why we have made a good balance between privacy and crime prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1006	I am a little uncertain as to whether there is a very balanced balance as to the extent to which a requirement of my telecommunications operator to store information about where I behave, for 6 months, for 12 months or for 24 months. That's the principle it's all about. It was displayed in Germany. It is in no way new that conservatives and social democrats come together in privacy laws, neither in Germany nor in Norway. But I want to go this a little bit further. For the Left is a liberal party, and we do not require reservations about EU directives in good time and in good faith. On the contrary, we have great respect for the importance of adapting European legislation and respect for the fact that one can be met with sanctions if one does not. But what we're talking about here is a directive that's completely at the edge of what might be thought to be EEA-relevant, yes, actually so at the outer edge that that very question came up in the European Court of Justice many years ago. Five years after it was adopted in the EU, one adopted it in Norway. We've been waiting for three years because it's too expensive to introduce. Is there really a reason to fear sanctions if you wait a little longer?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1015	It is true that Norway is not obliged to implement it because it is not incorporated into the EEA Agreement, but there is a national assessment and a compromise between a majority in the United Kingdom on the basis of which we continue to implement it. Then there are complexities in the implementation of it. It's not surprising. We take the time we need to ensure a good implementation, but there is no basis for any suggestion that we are rushing and rushing into this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1022	I now interpret the European Minister a little bit as saying that not only does one want to introduce the Data Storage Directive in Norway because one is obliged to do so, but because one from the Right's side is fundamental for what is now to be introduced, that it makes sense to introduce it. It contrasts somewhat with the arguments used when the debate was last held in Stortinget. There was a lot of talk about the consequences of a meeting in the EU if one did not. Now it is such that historical experience shows us that privacy-invasive legislation is extremely difficult to remove once it has been introduced. There's one reason to be skeptical. In his reply to Mr Ingebrichsen, the Minister for Europe said that bombastic conclusions about the effectiveness of the directive are too early. Clearly, it was not too early for the European Minister to conclude in his reply that it has a decisive role to play in countering crime. However, I would like to follow up with the following questions: If the directive is now stopped in whole or in part in the EU – which may be stopped in the EEA Committee – will Right open up so that one does not implement it in Norway then?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1033	The government is committed to implementing the decision on the aggregates in this case. We are awaiting the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but I can say that the Advocate-General has stuck primarily with the fact that a two-year storage constitutes a problem, and he stated that storage for one year, for example, could be proportionate. We therefore see no reason to reverse the Norwegian approach to this. Let me add here that the national assessment made in Stortinget and the majority of the population, of course, also look to Norway's role in European crime prevention. In this context, it is important that all EU countries implement this Directive, possibly with the adjustments that may result from the future judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1044	‘In line with the EEA Agreement, Norway cannot regulate where the data collected are stored. The Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the European Union criticises the Data Storage Directive for its illegal use, for not being stored in the country where the residents live and for not being in the hands of the State. The agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right says a lot about privacy, but in the light of Snowden and the authorities of other countries' cooperation with the United States and others, how can the government guarantee that the data collected under the Data Storage Directive will not be balanced?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1051	Let me first say that I'm very concerned about the need for safe and secure data storage, regardless of what purpose it is, and what the reason is. I am also very concerned about maintaining privacy. That's why I'm personally very happy to have the arrangement we have, because then we can be influenced by development. In order to ensure data protection, the implementation of the Data Storage Directive in Norway introduces strict rules for the retention and collection of data. Encryption of data subject to storage is required, storage mode is required and data storage is required. There are also restrictions on who can retrieve information from the data storage. The demands we have in Norway are among the most severe in Europe. Current legislation does not prevent the storage of data subject to storage beyond the country’s borders as long as specified concession conditions are met and the Data Protection Authority is able to monitor this. So you're trying to do this regardless of where on the globe it's stored. The data supervision could withdraw the concession if the Norwegian strict storage conditions are not met.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1060	I thank you for your answer. Norwegian concession is part of this. It has until now been little practice to withdraw a concession. We know that the share that is currently using smartphones has grown from 41 pst. of the population in 2011 to 78 pst. Today, and the proportion of people using computer boards is also going up a lot. So the council here says that one has to withdraw concession. However, the data can be stored in other countries that have a completely different legislation, and also in cloud services, which are not similarly well regulated. Will the Council of State be inclined to review the authorities here, or say that they should withdraw concessions, for example: for Telenor?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1069	The Data Protection Authority has the option of withdrawing concessions if they themselves believe that Norwegian storage conditions are not met. Then one has to find cases where it happens, in order for us to be able to take a debate. I don't want to wonder about it. But let me also stress that the Ministry of Transport has, if we change the Ekom regulation, as the Stortinget has asked, instructed its subscribers to inform them of where the data is stored. It also means that a consumer will now have more opportunity to make such choices, about which one offers a user, because one also knows where the data is stored. So the consumer has a greater chance of affecting his situation that way. But, as I said, I've been concerned about the issue, both as a government council and when I was a big-time representative of the Progress Party. That is why I am very happy that I have this role now, because then I can follow up on the issue that I feel the representative is also very concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1078	It is very good that the Council of State is concerned about this. Communication concerns us very much, and we use it more and more. That's a significant amount of data we exchange in everyday life. Today, private operators are required to carry out data storage on the basis of what they require: the Data Storage Directive. It is a considerable responsibility they then assume. But can it be relevant for the state to assume both the financial responsibility and the administrative responsibility for storing these data, as one so clearly says that one needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1085	Initially, private providers provide services, both in terms of infrastructure, storage, etc., within the Ekom market. I don't initially see any reason for the state to go in as a commercial actor in that area. We on the part of the state – that is, the Grand Government and the Grand Government – have the task of making good laws and enforcing those laws. It has done so by imposing requirements on the encryption of data subject to storage conditions, storage mode requirements and storage site protection requirements, and thus allowing the withdrawal of concessions whose storage location is not perceived to be in line with what was initially required by the Data Protection Authority. So I also noticed that on the previous question it was referred to Telenor. There was one thing in today's business a little while ago when one got the impression that almost all of the traffic to Telenor is going via Sweden. The contact we have had with Telenor suggests that it is not correct, that there were errors in that article, and that the majority of Telenor's traffic is routed internally in Norway. Thus, the problem is not as big as one got the impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1096	‘The possible introduction of the EU Data Storage Directive will store data and telecommunications traffic of citizens. How will the Council of State characterise a society in which data on all human data and telecommunications traffic are stored?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1103	The Data Storage Directive does not open for the storage of data on the content of data traffic. The Data Storage Directive allows only storage of traffic data, i.e. another part – there is no time, no place and between which people communication has taken place. The question from the representative testifies more about a reference to '1984' and the book to George Orwell, which shows a totalitarian socialist society that I have not wanted. It does not reflect the data storage directive that has been adopted – which my party, quite rightly, voted against, and so did the representative's party. But the issue he raises is therefore not relevant with regard to the data storage directive adopted in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1108	Interestingly, the Council of State mentioned ‘1984’ and totalitarian states in their rather brief response. It is not the SV that has gone the farthest into the characteristics of what kind of society we get if the directive is introduced. The State Secretary, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, said when he was a poacher: ‘When Norway introduces the Data Storage Directive, it takes a major step towards a police state and a monitoring society.’ And on the other hand, ‘I am convinced that the old people of the KGB, or Stasi, or what it is called, in old Eastern Europe, who were driving massive surveillance of their citizens, would be proud if they had got this directive in place.’ When the Progress Party has previously considered it appropriate to compare the Data Storage Directive with the infringements committed by Stasi and the KGB, how can the Council of State defend its approach to the Directive now? What is the Advance Party paid to sell the privacy for government participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1123	This is going to be a bit of a strange debate, because once I, as the Council of State, have highlighted the position of the Party of Advancement, I have been given a package by red-green politicians that I cannot be both a party politician and a state council at the same time. So I get party-politically-directed questions as I stand here as the Council of State. Then it will be a little difficult to answer this correctly, because then I will have to shut up the next round because I have answered the question that the representative has asked – while I have been the Council of State. However, let me stress that privacy concerns are at least as important to me and the Advance Party as they were when we were in opposition. At the same time, while Snorre Serigstad Valen's party was in government, a data storage directive was adopted that they are now trying to fight against. I think Snorre Serigstad Valen, when he thinks about it, understands that it's not all things you win when you're in government. At least it's obvious to his own party. However, we will ensure that in implementation – unless the Storting changes its perception – we will respect privacy considerations in an excellent way, at least better than the previous government would put up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1130	I have a great deal of understanding that compromises are being made and not getting through everything you want in government. But I don't think the Swedish government would introduce policies that we thought made Norway a totalitarian society – in line with Stasi and the KGB. But we can put Stasi and KGB aside. It is a point that the movement pattern and traffic data stored with the Data Storage Directive, whether stored or not, may threaten both alerts and – not least – press sources. It gives a so-called "chilling" effect, where people can also hesitate to do what is right, because they're afraid to be caught or seen. What has done is that the Minister of Transport now believes that the source and alert protection is ensured by the implementation of the Data Storage Directive, while the party of the State Council in the past found it too good to draw parallels to the despotic regimes in the east when they were to characterise the conditions for alert protection and source protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1139	There is a significant difference, and that is that it is now the undersigned who is responsible for part of the implementation of this, even though much lies with the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice. Then I have much more confidence that it will be done in a good way than I had before when other parties crashed. Privacy is incredibly important. It is important to protect the liberal values of a democracy. It aims to implement this government. If SV believes that the Data Storage Directive should not be implemented, a majority in Stortinget believes otherwise. Then my proposal is to go to those who have actually secured the majority for a decision rather than go to a Council of State and ask for a rematch, and not respect the majority of the Stortinge. It does not belong in a democracy that a government has a policy other than that permitted by the majority of the population – regardless of what the Council of State personally believes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1152	‘In Computerworld on 12 August 2013, Bård Hoksrud said: ‘Frp has always thought that Norway should have waited with the decision to see how this is happening in the EU. We did not understand why it was so important to rush through a directive, which is still being discussed and evaluated in the EU. What will the EU Court of Justice's new clarification on the Data Storage Directive have to say about the possible introduction or reassessment of the introduction into Norway?' – Here I will address my question, for this is about the Advocate General’s assessment: What will the Advocate General’s new clarification on the Data Storage Directive have to say about the possible introduction or reassessment of the introduction into Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1164	The Advocate General’s Opinion is a reasoned submission to the Court of Justice, but the European Court of Justice’s statement on the Directive and its implications for Norway will only be the case when the European Court of Justice actually gives its judgment. The fact that there has been an incident does not mean that we can deal with it alone. It is the judgment that decides, and it is most likely to come in April 2014. Therefore, it is too early to say what consequences the opinion will have for its implementation, but we are following it closely. I have not stated that one will not have the matter reviewed. I've said that we're dealing with the majority of the population that decides. I thought that was also natural for the previous government. The majority of size still decides that the Data Storage Directive should be implemented. Then my task is to ensure that it is implemented in the best possible way. I am very happy that I have this job, because then I can maintain privacy as well as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1171	The reason we have raised the issue of reassessment on a number of occasions is that one government party before the elections promised a rematch on the Data Storage Directive. I think that was a wise assessment. There were also a number of other parties that promised. In the past, we have seen that the Council of State has been quite clear that no new assessment will be made. I noticed that what he is now saying is a little different. Is it so to understand that we can expect a real reassessment of the government in the light of what is now going on in the Court of Justice of the European Union and that it is possible that the government will come up with a different view of the implementation of the directive for spring than what is currently the situation? The majority of the Grand Duchy will then also have changed, and the obstacle that stands in the way of implementing what the Council of State really believes will have been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1178	This reminds me a little bit of tile nailing. I am not saying anything other than what I said earlier in Stortinget, in social media, in readers' letters and in debates, and that is that a government decides to implement the policy that the majority on the Grand Duchy believes. With regard to the Data Storage Directive, the Government Platform has not given any new signals. This means that the decision taken by the Labour Party and the Right is the policy that the government must implement. Then it is my job as the Council of State to carry it out in the best possible way. I am aware that many people want a rematch here, but when you look at the election results, those who want a rematch on the Data Storage Directive have become fewer at this level than at the previous level. Thus, it is the representatives of big business who are in a minority, who have a job to do in Stortinget if they want another outcome of the case. It cannot be pointed out that anyone in the government, even though they may have other personal positions, should have an opportunity to set democratic rules aside. I thought SV was aware of that after even sitting in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1185	The size can point out what you want, and that's why we're doing it now. We believe it is quite natural that the government also discusses this. I record that during the same answer we have somehow received both a yes and a no for a new assessment. This must mean that the government must discuss the follow-up after we have reached a conclusion from the Court of Justice of the European Union, and we look forward to that. Finally, let me challenge the Council of State on a very concrete issue, because a concern about the Data Storage Directive has been media source protection and the protection of alerts. In the context of the examination of this matter in the spring of 2011, the Norwegian Press Association, the Editorial Association and the Journalist team asked that a selection be set up in cooperation with the media organisations to review and submit proposals to strengthen media source protection in the light of the Directive. Is it possible for the government to re-assess these types of measures that can help us look at the consequences of the directive? Will the Council of State consider that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1196	I think it is interesting that a former member of the government now hopes that a new government will transform decisions that his old government agreed to make – and decisions that they made. As I said in my answer to the first question, we want a thorough assessment of the case when the final judgment of the European Court of Justice is in place. It is then natural that we look at all cases, as the Court of Justice may give us new signals that give us the basis for new rounds in the European Union. But one might say that everything is going to be what it's been decided before. It would be a little pointless for me to start wondering about all the eventualities before you know what the European Court of Justice actually says.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1208	‘It has long been known that the Swedish FRA Act opens the way for Norwegian citizens to be monitored by Swedish authorities. It is a serious problem that our communication is monitored without the knowledge and influence of the Norwegian authorities in relation to it, that the judiciary is not involved, and that this information can be passed on to the powers of other countries. Is the Council of State willing to assess a new Internet cable to mainland Europe so that Norwegian Internet services can be routed outside Sweden?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1215	Let me first say that I am very concerned about privacy, and for that very reason this government has taken some initiative towards Sweden in terms of privacy in the light of the FRA Act. It's more than the experience that the previous government did. That is why I am very proud of the work we have started. With regard to the specific issue, there are already fibre cable connections from Norway both across Skagerak to Denmark and across the North Sea to the United Kingdom — in addition to those that pass through Sweden. International cable connections are established by private echo operators on the basis of commercial market demand assessments. So today there are opportunities to route the traffic into the world outside of Sweden. I want to be positive if the echo provider wants to make additional investments there, but that's something they have to do themselves. My mission is to make sure that we have contact with Sweden, and I have already been to Sweden and talked to the Swedish Council of State to ensure that Norwegian privacy concerns are respected as well as possible in the meeting with the world around us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1224	Last spring, there was a proposal in the Stortinget that both the Left and the Advance Party voted in favour. In that proposal, the Stortinget asks the Government to: ‘look at and come back to the Stortinget with proposals for solutions that prevent information and communication from Norwegian citizens being routed via countries which have laws that allow authorities to check the telecommunications and email content of individuals’. Do I understand the Council of State right when he no longer sees the need for such an investigation and to try to put in place alternative cables to route outside Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1234	As mentioned, I have been to Sweden and talked to the Swedish Council of State about the problem we experience around the FRA Act from Norwegian privacy. I felt that they had an understanding of our views. We're still going to have a dialogue on this. But it is a complicated matter, because also in Sweden this was a controversial issue that had been adopted, so I do not expect them to turn around overnight. But I am very happy to have received the feedback I received in the first round. As I also mentioned, there are already fibre cable connections out of Norway – not just through Sweden, but to Denmark and the United Kingdom. In this way, there are the possibilities that the representative is asking for. That there is a need for additional cables, is well possible, and we have an ambition to expand the infrastructure for fiber, broadband and that kind of thing to a greater extent than what has been done. There was a strategy from the previous government, and we have the ambition to strengthen it, both because it is important for individuals' ability to communicate between themselves and because we would like to look at the possibility of developing a better data industry in Norway. Then cables are an important part.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1241	I thank you for the answer so far, and I am very pleased that the Council of State takes the privacy considerations seriously, and that he has been in Sweden to discuss these issues with the Swedish authorities. I wondered if the Council of State could be a little more specific about what he raised with the Swedish authorities and what he considered to be a problem on our part, and – not least – whether he could be a little more specific about what positive signals he might get from the Swedish authorities, and what they would do to ensure that Norwegian citizens are not affected by the FRA Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1248	I had a meeting in Sweden at the beginning of December, and then I took up a lot of different relationships that I also think Left will be satisfied with, among other things. cross-border rail traffic and the type of thing. I also communicated our concerns when it came to ensuring the privacy of Norwegian citizens in the domestic traffic that is occasionally routed through Sweden, but far from to the extent that the media has given the impression. The majority of Telenor’s traffic is routed only internally in Norway, according to Telenor. When I am satisfied with the answers I received, it is because the Swedish authorities did not say that it was not appropriate to discuss this with us. On the contrary, they showed a great understanding of privacy considerations and issues with regard to what we addressed, because they are equally concerned about it for their Swedish citizens. To figure out what possibilities exist, they were willing to discuss. More detailed than that, I do not want to say it, but we still have contact. It's a better contact than what you've had before, and that's why I think we're going in the same direction, the representative and I, and then we're going to hope that the results are coming quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1261	This question, from the representative Sverre Myrli to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister of State at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and relations with the EU on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1264	‘On December 18, 2013, it is 100 years since Willy Brandt was born. His long political activity was characterized by the struggle for peace, reconciliation and disarmament. Brandt was an important supporter in normalising and developing Norway’s relationship with Germany. Today, in Norway, we see a renewed interest in Germany, the EU's heaviest Member State. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the legacy of Brandt on closer relations between Norway and Germany can best be further developed and strengthened?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1271	Today it is 100 years since Herbert Frahm was born in his hometown Lübeck. 20 years later, a young man ashoreed in Oslo port. The party he belonged to had been banned by the Nazis. There were not many days before his first article was printed in Norwegian newspapers, signed with the pseudonym Willy Brandt. Willy Brandt played an important role in rebuilding the historic close relationship between Germany and Norway after World War II. Erna Solberg's first visit as Prime Minister went to Berlin, where she was received by Chancellor Angela Merkel. There was one expression of the close ties between our countries. In the Sundvolden platform, the government states that it will deepen bilateral relations with central European countries, and among them, of course, is Germany. The links between our two countries are very well developed in almost all areas. The trade in 2012 was approx. 175 B.C.E. kr. Norwegian energy plays a key role in the extensive ‘die Energiewende’ in Germany, the conversion to the use of less polluting energy. The number of Norwegian cultural workers in Berlin is approaching in the nineteenth century, and Germany is the main market for Norwegian cultural exports. The number of German students in the Norwegian school is increasing, and there are more football players in the German Bundesliga than in the English Premier League. Willy Brandt was also a significant European politician. He was strongly committed to European cooperation and to Norwegian participation in European cooperation. It may be said that it is in Willy Brandt’s spirit when the government prioritizes Norway’s relationship with Europe, for example: made visible by a separate State Council on EEA and EU matters. In many ways, Norway’s way to Europe and to EU decision-making processes are going through Berlin. I am happy to record the strong interest and the strong openness of German governments have shown and shown Norway. This goes back a long way, and has repeatedly proved to be important for Norway’s relations with the EU. Both the government of Solberg and our predecessors have had close contact with German colleagues on EEA and European issues. We work together on a number of issues – energy policy, international disarmament and development issues and the North, to name a few. Yesterday a new government was sworn in in Berlin. We have already taken initiatives to quickly establish contacts with this new government, and let me conclude by saying that political cooperation between our two countries is not just between governments. Here in Stortinget, a Norwegian-German partnership group has existed for a long time, and it is a work I want to praise. Parliamentary cooperation and party contacts between our two countries are important parts of our relations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1286	It was very good here, and it's actually also so that there are still more Norwegian footballers in Germany, now last with Rune Almenning Jarstein's transition to Hertha Berlin. I am somewhat uncertain about whether the government should thank you for that, but in any case, I am very happy about what is happening. I am also very pleased that Erna Solberg, as the third Norwegian Prime Minister, chose to take his first trip abroad to Berlin. It is a clear and clear signal – very good. Norway has had its own Germany strategy for quite a long time. It has been a strategy for areas that are important for business, it has been in the field of energy policy – which is very important in the contact between our two countries – it has been about political exchanges and relations in general, about culture and not least about languages. My question is: does the government want to continue the strong and good cooperation and strategy that has been in relations with Germany?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1293	I can confirm that the government wants to continue and strengthen this cooperation, because it is so important to us bilaterally, and because it is so important to us in an EU and EEA context. In this context, I can mention that the German strategy, which was first adopted in 1999, and which was revised in 2007, is now undergoing a new revision. We think it is important that we capture the breadth of Norwegian-German cooperation even better, and that is why we have started work on revising and updating that strategy. I am pleased that there is a great deal of agreement on that strategy, and that there are many actors working in the framework of that strategy, to strengthen the Norwegian-German relations. And we are excited about Norwegian footballers in Germany, even though we do not take credit in any way for being there or for the goals they score!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1300	Willy Brandt, through his long and political function, had a thought of ‘change through approach’, as he called it — one must know one another, one must understand one another, one must approach one another in order to solve common challenges. After all, Brandt's work of life was in many ways his «East Policy», for which he also received the Nobel Peace Prize, which was about one having to have a stronger approach to those who, in many eyes, were viewed as enemies or opponents. There is no doubt that the issue of language is a challenge for a stronger convergence between Norway and Germany. Over several decades, there is no doubt for a few Northmen who have learned German, and who master German well enough, but fortunately we see some positive trends now. My question is: is the government concerned with ensuring that we have sufficient competence in Germany and the German language in Norway, and how to develop that competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1307	I believe that the development of knowledge in the Norwegian community about Germany is something that increases by expanding and deepening cooperation in many areas, and that is why this is a work on how many actors are involved. Then the internationalisation of Norwegian education and research is very important, and the EU is the main instrument for internationalising research, and Germany is an important partner in this respect. In the field of work at the Internationalisation School, language and language training are important. We are pleased with the strengthening we see that more students choose German, and we hope and believe and will work to ensure that it will also provide a basis for increased knowledge about Germany and the importance of Germany as a partner for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1320	The next question is from the representative Anniken Huitfeldt to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is also answered by the Minister of State at the Office of the Prime Minister for the Coordination of EEA Affairs and Relations with the EU, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1323	My question is about women's rights to reproductive health: ‘Norway has worked for many years to strengthen women’s rights to reproductive health. Internationally, we have met forces against both increased transparency and preventive health work in this area. What will the Minister of Foreign Affairs do to ensure women's right to abortion and prevention in countries where this is not part of the healthcare system or is prohibited?'
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1337	The government is continuing Norway’s commitment to global health. The 2014 budget shows our commitment to achieving these objectives by the end of 2015, with particular emphasis on the Millennium Development Goal No. Four and five. We have a budget increase in our international health exposure from this year, we are active in all the main international arenas for women's and children's health, including reproductive health, and in the World Health Organisation we are actively involved in strengthening the normative foundation for health, especially for women and children. Women's right to reproductive health is part of the work on Millennium Goal No. Four and five. Family planning is an effective and reasonable measure to ensure safe pregnancy and safe births for both mother and child, and the fact that family planning actually works as well is perhaps our strongest argument in meeting opponents. There are too many women who die as a result of dangerous abortions. Let me mention some of the tracks the government is working along to preserve and strengthen women's right to reproductive health. We contribute to the implementation of the recommendations of the UN Commission on Vital Medicinal Products for Women and Children. Norway has this year channelled 450 million. kr for this, of which 150 million. kr is earmarked for reproductive health and will be continued in 2014. Norway helps to reduce the price of contraceptives by providing a guarantee of large purchases, which has led to halves of prices. And in order to get more people to use contraceptives, it is important to provide training to health workers, to young people and to women. Reproductive health is a matter of human rights. Through the World Health Organisation, WHO, and through the UN Population Fund and the UN Human Rights Council, Norway is working to promote sexual and reproductive rights. We also give priority to giving women access to safe abortion. Support for this work increased by 20 million. kr 2013 and this increase will continue in 2014. The support is distributed through a number of non-governmental organisations specialising in working for safe abortions, and this local knowledge is important in order to be as effective as possible in working in difficult national contexts. International work, the normative discussions on reproductive health, prevention and abortion are demanding and sometimes controversial. The more important it is that we carry on the good work that is already going on — and has been going on for a while — and that brings results for the health of children, young women and mothers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1350	Of the questions answered by the European Minister, this is, as he says, the most controversial with abortion, and in that case small changes from the Norwegian side, such as the right of reservation, could receive international attention as a step in the wrong direction. And that's why it's so important that this government is active in all the international assemblies where it's possible to address this issue, because there's often a lot of opposition from the other countries, much greater than in the other issues about mothers' rights. So my question is, in which assemblies has the government raised this question since it joined?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1355	Norway works in the bodies where this is on the agenda, and we work along the same lines as previous governments. Not least within the World Health Organisation, important normative work is in progress; among other things, we see it as important that the WHO guidelines on abortion in healthcare are implemented. So there is no secret that there are controversy about this work in the UN, and that many UN organisations and UN bodies are characterized by the standstill in this work, but from the Norwegian side we consistently emphasise the importance of safe abortions, and Huitfeldt's representative can be sure that the line that Norway has been on here will be continued.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1360	I am pleased that we are going to continue the Norwegian line, but this is also about using their intended speaking time to address this issue – because it is not always going to be applauded when you raise questions about abortion in international congregations. So my question is, where has the Foreign Minister taken this up since he joined?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1365	I am not familiar with where the foreign minister has specifically addressed this, and in the two months the government has been sitting, nor have I become aware of what concrete multilateral and bilateral meetings this has been natural to address. But that does not mean that we will not take it into account in the context where it is important and natural, and there the representative Huitfeldt can be absolutely sure that Norwegian positions will be continued, whether it be the UN Human Rights Council, the WHO or in other UN contexts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1374	My question goes to the Minister for Climate and Environment: ‘How does the Council of State feel that nature considerations, reasons for outdoor life and concerns for owners are better protected than at present by a comprehensive liberalisation of the scooter driving rules and does not become a comprehensive attempt only when it is in any case thinking of implementing legislative changes with the liberalisation of the rules for scooter driving without having properly evaluated the trials?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1381	The scheme was initiated by the previous government and was originally to be limited to 40 municipalities, but we extended it to the approximately 100 municipalities that have notified their interest. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, which administers the Test Act, has assessed the issue of the legality of this, and I have explained the judgment of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs in my reply of 11 December to written question No. 158 from the representative of Terje Aasland. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs concludes that the experiment is in line with the objectives, limitations and other conditions of the Test Act. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs believes that the experiment is aimed at the purposes covered by the Test Act and that it has a real experimental character and is not a general reform. The scope of the experiment is broad and within the framework of the law to gain experience with a wider range of municipalities. The government does not aim to increase the use of snowmobiles in Norwegian nature. What is important for the government is to allow local communities to have their own land, including the ability to decide whether to establish snowmobile runs. Many municipalities in Norway have large areas and little people. The government is based on trust policy. I trust that those who rule in Municipality-Norway have the ability and the desire to take into account all their inhabitants and visitors, both those who want quietness and tranquility, and those who want other experiences. In any case, it's not that the municipalities can do anything. There is a clear national framework for the experiment. These runs shall be established by spatial planning according to the Planning and Building Act. This ensures broad involvement of interested parties. There are limitations on where the loops can be placed, among other things. municipalities must avoid protection areas. Furthermore, municipalities must take into account, for example, the setting of loops. noise and other handicaps to outdoor life, natural diversity, residential and cabin areas, cultural memories and the cultural environment. Municipalities must investigate the effects of loops on outdoor life and natural diversity. They must map and value open-air areas where the loops are planned. In other words, it is not clear. In the case of landowners, the rule governing the experiment explicitly states: ‘The Commission may not take a final decision on snowmobile loop until private and public landowners have agreed to use snowmobile services for the part of the track relating to their property.’ These days we have started working on a letter of consultation with proposals for amendments to the law on motor travel in land and watercourses, which will give municipalities greater access to managing motorised outland traffic on a permanent basis. The letter of consultation shall be sent on a regular basis, subject to a reasonable period of time, to give an opinion. The hearing opinion, together with the experience gained from the pilot scheme, including experience from the planning work of the municipalities, will form the basis for the legislative proposal that the government will ultimately promote for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1408	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, but I wonder about the whole process that has been: When carrying out an experiment, it is common to evaluate the experience of the experiment before deciding to proceed. But here it was about rolling out an experiment in about a quarter of the country's municipalities and letting it be the first step on the road of what should be the democratic and good process of a legislative change. This way of doing it is, in my opinion, very undemocratic, because you roll out an experiment in a quarter of the country's municipalities, but you really don't intend to look at the broad experience of how this works in the municipalities before going on. My follow-up question to the Council of State is therefore: Does the Council of State see that this is not a lucky democratic way to do it when planning a legislative change?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1421	We run the experiment to gain experience in the legal work, so that the law is as good as possible. It will be in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1426	Then, of course, the Council of State did not answer my question as to whether she sees that it is undemocratic when one really chooses not to run the experiment fully, but only evaluates a very small part of the trial before going on. That's why my question is left: Does the Council of State see that it is not possible to evaluate the whole experiment before implementing a change of law, and that, in my opinion, this is an undemocratic way of doing this? The Council of State has said that it makes an impression when 42 000 people in a short time have signed on a propeller saying no to carry out and unroll the test system to be put in place. The peasants, representing many landowners, have been opposed. The outdoor organisations, which are the broadest representatives of public engagement in nature, also clearly say no. How does this impress upon the Council of State, when the Council of State nevertheless chooses to move forward?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1439	I am pleased with the great commitment in the matter. We need strict frameworks for motorized traffic, but for our government, local self-government is important. In this country, we have large areas and a few people. When I visited working party rapporteurs from Inner Namdalen, they said that in the four municipalities they had the same area as Oslo, Akershus, Østfold and Vestfold together. There are 1.7 million people living on that area, while there are 8,700. I think it's possible to combine snowmobiles with quiet nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1452	‘The Board of Governors of Innovation Norway has recently decided that the two new seed mandates, which came into the revised budget, will go to the Proventure and Alliance Venture. These two funds will cover the important energy and IT sectors. However, the allocation implies that early-stage companies in the vulnerable Norwegian pharmaceutical/biotech industry will remain standing without seed. What will the government do to ensure continued access to capital for start-up and early-stage companies in this sector?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1459	I am pleased that the managers of the two new nationwide seed funds are in place. The funds are now going to raise private capital, and I expect them to make their first investments in the summer of 2014. The ability to develop new, innovative businesses is important for future growth and jobs. First of all, the market is to finance businesses. It also applies to these types of establishments. Investors have the main weight of capital and the skills needed to develop new businesses. The government has therefore taken action to strengthen private investors through tax relief on wealth, inheritance and income, for both individuals and businesses. However, the State has a role to play in contributing to the financing of enterprises where the market operates to a limited extent. This is why we also have comprehensive business-oriented instruments, where Innovation Norway manages some of the most important – in particular through loans and grants. In the very early stages, theinstitutional grants are particularly important. Minor grants are provided here to enable entrepreneurs to check out their ideas or market plans. Through the Norwegian Research Council, the Commercialisation Programme, Renew 2020, offers grants for verification and evidence that research results can be commercially used and thus become attractive to investors. I would also like to highlight Innovation Norway's schemes with research and development contracts and environmental technology schemes, which are particularly important in order to produce new, innovative projects. This is a system that is open to all sectors, including the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries. Today, we are already investing heavily in research in the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, and we have had good success, among other things. Carcinogenic Algeta. The figure from the Treasure Fund shows that about 10 pst. of the projects supported are in the field of health. The government has in our political platform that we should increase the funds for the Seed Funds in order to further develop new businesses and innovations. There are many good entrepreneurs with a wide range of ideas out there – ideas that we will live on in the future. Therefore, it is important that we have seed funds and other capital and competences available to more industries than ICT and energy. The specific areas in which each fund is to be invested must be decided by private investors. They risk their own money, and we know that the competence of sectors is crucial for creating a fund for a good return for investors and therefore for society as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1476	I thank you for your answer. I just want to add that Sarsia Seed, which is the seed fund that has worked towards this area today, has registered 70 qualified companies that are ready for start-up. They have also mobilised private capital that could have matched public capital, and this was really the third fund that was ready to establish itself. There was initially some scepticism as to whether there was enough private capital to match these new seed funds. Now it turns out that it is. As of today, there are 70 companies that are ready to start, and the alternative is that all the investment we have in health research is capitalised abroad and not here in Norway. When – because it takes almost a year – can you expect a new call so that they can apply again?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1483	The government has said that it should invest in several seed funds. Then it depends on how quickly private capital can be acquired and on the individual state budget treatment when this can be obtained up and down. I can't forge day and time for it, but it's gonna happen. The Health Declaration is a four-year plan, so we're working on seed capital because we know this is important. I know well about Sarsia Seed, as the representative asks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1488	I just want to remind you that all the other seed funds have been included in the revised budget, so it would have been very positive about the Council of State – I know that she has been sitting in the Council of State for a short time – very soon could give signals that they could behave accordingly. We've invested heavily in Oslo Cancer Cluster. If we are to materialise, create new jobs for entrepreneurs, and not least avoid a doubling of the economy, it is incredibly important that we bet when businesses are clear about such an important knowledge industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1493	Oslo Cancer Cluster was, as far as I know, the Workers' Party actually opposed, because it was some kind of OPS cooperation, but I'm not going to go into it. I take with me the good advice to work for seed capital. It is also stated in the Sundvolden Declaration, which we intend to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1504	«Previous Minister of Industry of Right Ansgar Gabrielsen raised the issue of equality in business by introducing 40 pst. gender quotaing in the ASA controllers. What are the ambitions of the Council of State to ensure that more women take leadership positions in business, such as the board of directors, management roles and the establishment of companies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1511	The requirement for 40 pst. representation of both sexes in ASA controllers has helped increase the proportion of women in such controllers, from 7 pst. in 2003 to 40 pst. in 2008. It is therefore in place to give tribute to the previous bourgeois government and former government councilman Gabrielsen for the job that was done to raise the proportion of women in the boardrooms. Of new enterprises that start up each year, 15-20 pst. by their female Executive Director and/or Chairperson. Almost 60 pst. of newly established enterprises have only male employees. The explanation for this is that most Norwegian limited liability companies have a few owners, and half of the companies have only one member of the board – namely the board manager – which naturally makes gender equality impossible. We still have a great potential for improvement. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade is working to increase the number of women in management and board of directors and is seeking to help more women start a business or choose a career in industrial research. This is particularly the case through the economic actors Innovation Norway, SIVA and the Norwegian Research Council. One of these actions is Innovation Norway’s ‘Women in Business’ programme, which aims to contribute to increased value creation and innovation by increasing women’s participation and position in business as entrepreneurs, managers and board members. SIVA has the initiative ‘Women’s Innovation’, where participants are motivated to become leaders and directors, and where they are linked to professional networks for increased access to capital. Reports from participating environments show that both the number of entrepreneurs and the proportion of women in the company mass have increased as a result of concrete activities undertaken with support through the SIVA. In recent years, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has been working to identify suitable female candidates for executive positions. As a result, the number of female directors in the 24 companies in which the department manages ownership now amounts to 42 p.m. That's good, but still this is a responsibility I take seriously, and which I will follow up continuously.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1526	The voting rules were controversial – not least in the Right, I think – when they were proposed and adopted, but today that discussion has calmed down considerably. The rules on sex quotaing in ASA controllers also raise international interest. Several countries have introduced similar demands after we did so, and even more are likely to do so. I think the Minister of Industry spoke a lot about the current situation, but my question is about the Minister of Industry, including in this field, having ‘new ideas and better solutions’ – which was a constant theme in the election campaign. I did not now get any new measures, other than looking at this. Can you now give some concrete input into how you want to establish more women in top management in business?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1535	This is a work that must be done every day. I'm not busy reinventing the powder if the job we're doing actually works. There are some programmes in place that work, and we are also following a programme under the NHO-Registration – Female Future. This is about doing the job every day: when you select board members, when you create lists, when you talk to organisations, when you talk to people, and when you're on company visits and you ask what your gender balance is. This is a work I do every day. I've done that since I joined, and I'll keep doing that. That's the point. This must be followed up daily.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1540	It's very positive to hear it. Norway is one of the world's most equal societies. In fact, figures from the Statistical Centre show that gender equality – in our long-term country – has a number of geographic dividing lines. North Norway and the East are very high, while the South, the West and the South East are even worse off in women’s representation. With regard to education, too, there are dividing lines around the country, and there is also a need to influence what you want to bet on with regard to career choices after completion of education. Does the Council of State see any challenges that can be addressed in relation to the gender divide?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1549	Geography probably tells us something about divisions. Social differences tell us about divisions. Education tells us about divisions. There are many things that make there are differences in this country. I still think it's about doing the job every day. When we sit in the department in Oslo and have to choose, for example: Members of governments, we need to think of the whole country, both genders and different backgrounds – different political backgrounds, such as: It's about doing the job every day, whether you're in South Africa or in North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1558	‘The Horne City Council has expressed itself in different directions in relation to equality. For example, we have been able to read that she thinks that equality has come too far, and that housewives are more discriminated against than homosexuals. In which area does the Council want to reverse equality, and how far back do we need to get to the desired level?'
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1565	I thank you for the question. We have come a long way in gender equality in Norway, as the 100th anniversary of women’s voting rights has also made clear this year. Nevertheless, there is a long way to go before we can say that there is full equality between women and men. The government's aim is for women and men to have equal opportunities for participation and freedom to make their own choices. Equality is about non-discrimination and non-equity, it's not just about a millimeter. The government will develop a forward-looking gender equality policy. We will strengthen equality and create a better protection of discrimination for all. The government will promote a universal equality and anti-discrimination law. The government will also work on issues that are important to women and men in everyday life. Action areas will be education, working life and the fight against violence in close relationships. The government wants to stimulate more, not least boys, to choose non-traditional professions and careers. The government also wants to strengthen the skills of the women’s dominated professions, including: in the care sector and in kindergartens. Furthermore, the government will work to reduce the use of involuntary part-time. Action against violence in close relationships is also an important part of gender equality. Like the Stoltenberg government, this government will also strengthen the offer to young violent perpetrators and children under the control of family protection services and the foundation Alternative to violence. In total, the government strengthens the offer by 7.8 million. NOK, which is 2 million. kr more than the Stoltenberg government proposed. This isn't going to reverse the equality. The measure of equality today is not that women and men behave equally and make completely equal choices. The aim is that opportunities should be good enough and really equal for women and men. Some women and men will bet on careers, while others want a quieter everyday life, to get more time for children and family or for other interests. My point is that we should not make poor or have a demeaning attitude toward the women and men who, at different stages of life, make a different choice, or choose to be at home. The government is concerned that it should be up to the family itself how it should organize its life, not that we politicians should govern the life of the family in detail. These choices are best for each family to make, and we need to respect the choices that each individual makes. The state should not enter into and govern the lives of people in the name of equality. The task of politicians is to make the good choices possible for the individual, and especially for the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1580	I want to thank you for your answer. It's good to say to the right state council that she thinks equality hasn't come far enough. It may be a little in contrast to what the Council of State said during the financial debate: ‘The critique of the past few weeks is that we are immature, and some say that we have put Norway back into the 1950s. Then I want to say that I agree with those who say that we might be the retro government. Retro is as known back again and modern again. The gender equality in Norway has more bones to stand on than the four weeks that exceed the spring quota.’ Here the Council of State says equality is going to go back. If the Council of State, with this premise, makes concrete to the Stortinget what to do in reverse, how far back will one go – what will the blue-blue government do to become what Sovieig Horne calls a retro-regiering?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1590	This is about politics, and it is about political disagreement – about who it is that should define what equality is. Equality is equality, or equality, and it also applies to freedom of choice. By saying that more flexibility and greater freedom of choice for families are a reversal of equality, the representative is completely wrong. This government is going to have equality in focus. We may want to spend a little longer time than the Stoltenberg II government did, but that's because it's important to bring some different values into the gender equality debate than what the representative Awake!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1595	Yes, the Minister for Gender Equality has now withdrawn a big message that equality does not come about by itself – so it can signal what it wants. I wonder what the Minister for Gender Equality thinks – what kind of policy tool is she for, what kind of legs does the Minister for Equal Opportunities think should be on? Or is it that our Minister for Equal Opportunities does not recognise that political choices affect the development of equality? Does the Council of State mean that Norway would have been one of the world's most equalised countries without a system of quotas, papers and other instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1602	Norway is a good country to live in. We have incredibly good parental leave schemes, and we have a flexible working life. It is these schemes that allow both women and men today to choose to be at home with family, but also to be active with their families. The development of kindergartens – for which SV and the Progress Party spoke, but not for Stoltenberg and the Workers' Party, but for which they were and ultimately supported – is an important objective in the gender equality struggle. So I think we need to focus on what's the challenge today, and it's involuntary part-time, getting girls to choose non-traditional professions, and not least to drag men and boys into the gender equality debate. There are important fields in which I, as Minister for Gender Equality, will take part in the further work to achieve more equality – and not least work for a good universal equality law, for which the government in its government platform has said it will work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1613	‘For many years, there has been a job to give women and men equal opportunities to participate in the labour market. Even when it comes to full-time and equal pay, we see huge differences between sexes. On a ranking of equal opportunities promotions, I believe that this, together with the possibility of kindergartens at a low price, is the highest. What does the Council of State think is the most equal opportunities measure in the government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1620	I thank you for your answer. Ensuring equal opportunities for women and men in the labour market is an important priority for this government. Education and working life and an innovative and competitive business that demands the competent workforce of both sexes are fundamental. Sound tripartite cooperation is important in this context. We will facilitate a policy to combine a professional career with care for young children. Good parental leave, flexible working hours and good childcare facilities are essential. The nursery agreement, which was initiated by the SV and the Progress Party, and which the other parties supported, shows that we are taking this seriously. Women and men in Norway have a unique opportunity for both work and family life. The combination of this is what raises the equality in the future. Involuntary part-time is one of the biggest challenges in working life, and there was also a major challenge under the Stoltenberg II government. The government wants to reduce the use of involuntary part-time, reduce sick leave and increase employment among minority women and people with disabilities. We want to promote untraditional educational choices, in particular to make young men choose differently, is a challenge. It is necessary to invest in the school, and one must upgrade the professions and the care professions, as this government is now doing. Gender equality is not only carried out in my department, but in all, and it is carried out across the sectors. There is a lot of good equality work going on in municipalities and in companies. As Minister for Gender Equality, I'm going to be a proponent of that work. Gender equality is about recruitment, pay and working conditions and the working environment in a broad sense, as well as measures to meet family needs. The Government shall actively combat all forms of discrimination, and one of the main acts that the Government will take is the establishment of a universal equality and anti-discrimination law. In this respect, we must also dry up to see if our enforcement apparatus is good enough today. We were all affected by the NRK report on Sunday on young girls at a girls' school in Afghanistan – how important it is to see girls being educated. The government is committed to strengthening girls and women's opportunities for school and work globally. In the government statement, we make this clear, and it is also followed up with the arrangements for our aid money, where we are paying for training for girls who need it in other countries as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1637	I thank the Council of State for its response. I am somewhat uncertain about what is the most obvious goal the government has in terms of gender equality promotion measures, but I hear the Council mentions the job of reducing involuntary part-time. Does it contrast with increased use of cash support and justification for one of the parents, or an adult, to stay away from work?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1644	Involuntary part-time is one of the major challenges we face when we look at the gender perspective in Norway today. It's a challenge that the Stoltenberg II government has had, and that this government will also have. That's why it's important to focus on this. What's important is also to look at where you've been successful. A lot of municipalities and a lot of companies have succeeded with involuntary part-time, and one of the main points that has been to organise the tours differently, which I have registered that the Stoltenberg II government was not so concerned about. Then we know that the women who are least out of work are Somali and Afghan women. It is important from an integration point of view that these women need language training, they need training, and they need to get work, because in this way they can become self-sustaining. And it's important to have flexible arrangements when you have small children, where you can also choose to use cash support at home if you need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1651	I thank the Council of State for its response. I am still concerned that we propose that we have fewer children in kindergarten in the years to come, and that, for the same reason, one might have a lower level of participation. I would like to ask the Minister for Gender Equality: does the government intend to motivate adults or parents to take similar measures with regard to SFOs or other welfare services that children have while parents are at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1658	What has been important for this government is to give the families greater flexibility, so that they can be longer at home with their children for a period of time, whenever they want. This does this government by increasing the bulk of the parental leave, so that you can be a little longer at home and not have to have your children so early in kindergarten, if you don't want to. Increasing the one-off benefit and increasing the cash support by NOK 1000 have been important steps to give families greater flexibility over a young child's period, whenever they want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1676	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1683	‘27. On August 1, 2013, NTB then refers to the representative of Solveg Horne’s response to what she believes is the biggest challenge in gender equality today. NTB writes: ‘The female believes it is more important to get minority women out of work instead of ‘being married away and at home’.’ Does the Council of State think this is the alternatives women have, and in that case: How does the Council of State view Horne's opinion to the representative Horne coincides with the government's policy of prioritising cash support to kindergartens?»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1690	Immigrant women, just like all women and men, have a wide range of choices and freedom to shape their lives. Taking education, taking part in the labour market and being self-sufficient are equally important for women as for men. It provides access, communities, networks and opportunities for development. The government wants to facilitate too high employment and a flexible labour market for all. Therefore, in its policy platform, the government has presented several measures that will help more women with a migrant background to participate in the labour market. I am glad that more and more young girls with a minority background are taking higher education. They're a resource that we need in the workplace, but at the same time, I'm worried that some of them are not using their skills. We will look at the possibility of connecting free core time in kindergarten to requirements for participation in activity or Norwegian training. This will help to improve both parents’ and children’s Norwegian skills. The trial of free core time, reported by the municipalities, has contributed to the positive attitude of parents towards the use of kindergarten and to the recognition of the importance of good Norwegian knowledge prior to schooling. For children with immigrant parents it is important to go to kindergarten for language development and for integration into Norwegian society. The government is concerned that we should have a good babysitting service, which everyone can take advantage of. The majority of children with a migrant background are in kindergarten today. That also applies to the youngest children. Developments are positive and strengthen trust between parents with migrant backgrounds and the Norwegian kindergarten and school system. We must remember that everyone will do the best for their children. Although the family receives cash support for a few months, there is still time for several years in kindergarten – where the child can learn languages – before school starts. Children and families are different and have different needs. In periods of life, some men and women may want to work less and spend more time caring for their own children. That's why, just like the Stoltenberg II government, we have strengthened the cash support as an alternative to kindergarten for the smallest children. It is not right that the government prioritises cash support in front of kindergarten. We want both and give the families real choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1707	The council says it is not right that the government prioritises cash support in front of kindergarten. Then it is strange that there is an increase in the amount of cash support and the price of nursery facilities, and that there is a reduction in the number of nursery places. Governments also say that equal opportunities for participation in the labour market are important and that it is an important priority. But when we know that there are most women who use cash support, and that fathers take out the leave that constitutes the father's quota, how can the council say that the rhetoric and policy of more expensive kindergartens, cut in paperwork, fewer kindergartens and increased payment to those who opt out of work are related?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1714	As I have said before, equality is not about four weeks of paperwork and NOK 1000 more in cash support. What this government has done – in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left – is to strengthen the family's flexibility and freedom to choose other solutions. Having a short period of time to be a little more at home with their children – and choosing cash support – is a value that is important for this government. We see that some families need to have their children in kindergarten in order for their children to learn the language. I am very happy that more and more people use kindergarten, so that children can learn the language before they start school. It must be possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time – thinking integration, having that perspective, but at the same time giving all families in the country freedom of choice for a short period of life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1725	Words like «flexibility» and «choice» are fine, but they are even better when they contain something. As in other policy areas, the Council of State's position here testifies to the creation of policies based on what one would want the world to look like, not on what the world looks like. In Norway, men serve more than what women do — also in the same position in the same enterprise and with the same education. Men own more and have more power than women. Does the Council reject the fact that there are structural barriers to genuine freedom of choice and that we need policies to change them?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1732	I recognise that we have a major challenge in terms of involuntary part-time. We have a challenge in terms of career choices and boys who fall out of high school. It's about making boys think untraditionally about a profession, and not least about getting girls to take higher education. It's a big challenge we have, and that the Stoltenberg II government also had, when it set with government power. That is why this government is betting on school. Getting the girls to take mathematics as an electoral profession and to upgrade and talk up the professions and the care professions, which are typical low-wage professions, women's clubs, so that we get both men and women to apply for these professions, are the major gender equality challenges we have today – not four weeks of father's share and a thousand more in cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1745	This question, from the representative of Arild Grande to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1748	‘The social partners have stated that increased cash support and reduced paper size will weaken the position of women in the labour market, but will also weaken the business environment for important competences. What is the reason why the Council of State does not share the views of the parties on this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1755	First of all, thank you for the question. There is no doubt that it is socio-economically profitable for people to work and pay taxes, and that we need both women's and men's skills in working life. It is such that parents have a statutory right to leave during a period when the children are young. It is a good thing that working parents have, and it is very important to give children a safe and good start to life. Parents in Norway have a unique opportunity to combine working life and family life. The government wants to continue the possibility that parents have of prioritising family life for a period of life. As I said earlier, we have a very good parental pension scheme in Norway. We also have a flexible working life and a high level of employment among women. This may help explain that many children are born in Norway. The government will continue to facilitate too high employment and a flexible working life for all. It is wrong that good choices for parents lead to a loss of skills for the business community. Competence of men and women in business today is fairly evenly distributed. We want both parents to take out parental leave, and we suggest that they take advantage of the entire leave. Then either mother or father will be away from work for a short period of time. We have to accept that. For most, there is a limited period of absence before they return to work. I therefore do not share the representative's concern that the changes made by the government in family policy will dampen the business environment for competence. For the government, it is important that parents themselves be able to give priority to how they will devote time to children and participation in the labour market when deciding on something as important as how best to care for their family.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1770	Thanks for the answer. It is interesting to hear that the Progress Party is not concerned about the impact this has on women's equality in working life. The Progress Party has never been particularly concerned about this, which is why they have always had to be drawn to their hair in relation to equality issues in Norwegian policy. In that case, it is quite remarkable that we are now boasting of the same society we have, with a high birth rate and a good opportunity to combine work and care, when we know that the Progress Party has almost not been involved in any of the progress that has taken place. It's obvious to everyone that women's equality is not a particularly important issue for this government. We can see that through more expensive kindergartens, fewer kindergartens, cash support and cut in the paperwork, which makes it no easier for the families of young children to combine work and care. My question is: What concrete measures does the Council of State plan to promote women's links with the labour market and to promote equal opportunities in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1779	It is, as I said before, good arrangements, which are also initiated by the Progress Party and SV, with the kindergarten agreement, which the Workers' Party came afterwards and supported. We have one of the world's best parental leave schemes today, which the government wants to keep. We're increasing the optional part and we're not reducing the common part. It is true that we have high birth rates, which the Progress Party has also been supporting and supporting all the way. This is not just about women's position in the workplace, it's about both women and men. If the representative believes in his own question, he must also believe that the fathers, when they take leave, will lose business for important competences. What's important to focus on here is to get women out of work, to take higher education, and to make the boys think untraditional. There are two important areas in which I, as the Minister for Gender Equality, will take me along in the further work of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1786	We know, among other things: that there are many fathers who want to take cardboard and who want to take more than the quota as well but who encounter obstacles either from their mother or from their employer. The fathers remain standing alone with the government's policy with cutbacks in the paperwork. One of the most important measures in the Annual Report on Gender Equality, which has unfortunately been drawn by the government, was the more active use of tripartite cooperation to promote gender equality in the labour market. Although the government believes that this is a choice each must take responsibility for itself, the government cannot be blind to the system of discrimination between women and men in the workplace. Employers’ organisations see it, employers’ organisations see it, researchers see it, a number of European countries see it, by more now establishing a father’s quota. The question then is, Will the government take the initiative to cooperate with the social partners in order to promote equality between women and men in the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1795	There is a lot of good equality work going on today. Several have argued that the government has drawn a case, but equality is more than bureaucracy. There is a lot of good work going on in private resource centres, equality centres, out in Norway today, as it is important to take it further. I also think dialogue with the labour market is important. We will continue to have good contact with the employment organisations. If we're going to have an involuntary part time, it's a way to go, to have a dialogue about this. But I also see that very many of the people who have managed to afford involuntary part-time have been open to other tour users. There's something the Stoltenberg II government hasn't been open to. This government wants us to have the opportunity for other tour users, too, when there is agreement among employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1807	‘When US journalist Edward Snowden can access a lot of data, we must take into account that others, including criminals, can also gain the same access to stored data. Is the government still committed to the implementation of the EU Data Storage Directive, in the light of what we now know about the reality of safe and secure data storage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1814	Now, I guess Edward Snowden is not an American journalist. He was an American IT technician who worked in a private company, and was hired to work for the NSA. Thus he had access to the information he has since leaked to various journalists. Like the representative, I am concerned about the need for safe and secure data storage. It is clear that large collections of stored data may also pose a risk of the same data being diverted. However, Norwegian rules impose strict requirements on both the types of data that can be stored, the duration of storage and who can access them. Furthermore, strict rules have been laid down on the authorisation of personnel and encryption. The Norwegian legislation on data storage is stricter than that of many other countries in Europe. In this context, I would also like to point out that the new rules in Norway take greater account of privacy in that area than the current law does. For example, the information is currently stored in the various databases of the individual echo operators without any specific security and access requirements being imposed. In addition, the government is concerned with the Storting decision on the implementation of the Data Storage Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1823	I understand that the Council of State says the last thing, because I have gone through quite carefully what was the intervention of the representative Anders Anundsen from the debate on the Data Storage Directive. There he says, especially when it comes to storing data, that experience suggests that they're in the wrong hands. It is even so that the representative Anundsen believed that this rocked by the very foundation of the Basic Law § 102. It makes me ask: what is the difference now, with the risk assessments and rules that are now on the ground, than those that were supposed to be on the ground when the representative Anundsen was totally opposed to introducing this legislation because it just did not ensure the storage of data in such a way that they did not get in the wrong hands, nor did it prevent crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1830	I understand that the round of questions today largely deals with the previous statements of representatives, before they became members of the government. It's a festive exercise, but it doesn't spend much time with the debate. I'm a member of a minority government. A minority government must do as Stortinget says, and So Stortinget has decided that the Data Storage Directive should be implemented. There's something this government will deal with. In addition, it is actually the Minister of Transport who is constitutionally responsible for the Data Storage Directive itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1837	I asked my question to the Minister for Transport, but it has been sent to the Minister of Justice. It's not something I've decided. What's interesting is that it's now constantly referred to that you're in a minority government, but that a party that sits in government can have a different opinion. We're familiar with that. We had that when we sat in government and dealt with this matter, and we stood for it. We now have a Minister of Justice who, when he was in Stortinget, believed that the whole point of the Data Storage Directive was to restrict the freedom of citizens. He went on to say that, of course, it was only the most naive people who thought this would help clarify serious crime, that criminals planning illegal activity, of course, know how this works and can take it into account in a special way, and that it is therefore only those with the least resources that will now be monitored and taken by the police. How will the Minister ensure that it does not happen, and that it is those who are really criminals, and who we want to take, who come into the Minister of Justice's search?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1846	I have to say that I basically appreciate Andersen's commitment to the safe and good storage of different types of data. But so it is that the Storting is the democratically elected body that is to adopt which laws are to apply in this country. The government has to deal with it. I don't think that situation is changing, no matter how many old quotes Andersen's representative draws up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1855	‘Both the Crisis Centre Secretariat and the Equality Ombudsman have warned against the Government’s proposal in the Sundvolden Declaration that the requirement for permanent residence permits is raised from three to five years because they fear that violent women will stay longer with the perpetrator. Does the Council share this concern and can we expect it to alert the review of the rules relating to abusers to concrete action?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1862	First, I would like to say that this is a very important issue, which the representative Håheim addresses, and on which the government has a strong focus. At the same time, we already have a provision in the Foreign Affairs Act, which is intended to ensure that foreigners do not feel pressured to continue a life of abuse of fear of losing their residence permit in Norway. This provision will not be affected by the suspension of the residence requirement for a permanent residence permit from three to five years. I would therefore like to stress that there should be no negative changes here, and that it should remain the same, low threshold for obtaining a residence permit on an independent basis for mistreated foreigners and their children. Although the provision is now intended to provide the necessary protection, it cannot be excluded that raising the requirement for living may have a negative impact on the individual’s experience of the risk of breaking out of a life of abuse. That is why the Government Declaration also states that we should review these rules and see if there is a need for measures to ensure adequate security for those who experience violence and abuse in close relationships. There's a job I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1869	Thank you for a good answer. My question was whether the Council of State sees it necessary to introduce further measures on the positive side, precisely because I feel that the Council of State also sees that this can lead to negative consequences. What are the measures taken by the Council of State? Then we also get a message of concern that this abuse clause in the Foreign Affairs Act has a number of evidence requirements that make it difficult for some of these women to be likely to abuse. My further question is: Will the Minister of Justice take the initiative to investigate the practice of this abuse clause when the government has also notified a review of the entire legislation relating to this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1880	The threshold – or the requirement of proof – for this so-called maltreatment provision is very low. It still has to be. In fact, the threshold is often so low as to be based on the sole explanation of the insult. But of course there is an overall assessment. It is also important, not least for those in need of this protection, that this provision is not abused. If the provision is abused, it will again go beyond the trust we can have in the practice of the provision. It is important on the action side to make the scheme known, so that those who are subjected to abuse know that they have the opportunity to make use of this scheme. Based on the enquiries we have, it seems that the determination is quite well known. In the review we're doing now, we're also going through, of course, the percentage of rejections and concessions to see if there's any further things we can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1889	I'm glad that the Council of State attaches importance to making the system known, because this concerns a vulnerable group of people. Some have a lack of Norwegian knowledge, and many are not aware of their rights, making it a challenge. For these women in question, it doesn't help to be right in the law if they don't get it right. In particular, I would like to highlight the importance of voluntary organisations, such as: JURK, which conducts outreach activities and rating information. The Action Plan against violence in close relations, as presented by the previous Government, states that a grant scheme should be established for non-governmental organisations. Will the Minister of Justice follow this up, and will he also consider an increase in the contribution of the voluntary organisations working in this field with very vulnerable women?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1896	The size has already increased the subsidy schemes in the field of justice, on a government proposal, by 2.5 million. kr in addition to the red-green government proposal for 2014. Some of these funds may also be directed towards non-governmental organisations, which contribute to the provision of information and assistance to persons exposed to violence in close relationships with residents. There has been some variation in the number of applications under this provision. Over and over, the acceptance rate under the red-green government has been quite even, and it seems that it also continues into this year, in 2013, though somewhat lower perhaps. But it is important that we work together to ensure that women and children, who are often exposed to this, have the necessary access to assistance and help when they need it. However, it is also important to ensure that the scheme is not abused.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1907	I would like to ask the Minister for Justice and Security the following questions: ‘A recent recommendation by Advocate General Pedro Cruz Villalón of the Court of Justice of the European Union states: ‘The Data Protection Directive is completely incompatible with the requirements of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union’ and ‘The Directive constitutes a serious interference with the fundamental right of privacy of citizens.’. Are the Councils of State in agreement with the recommendation of the Advocate General?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1916	The Advocate General's Opinion is a contribution to the Court of Justice so that it cannot be held that the decision of the Court of Justice would be in line with the Advocate General's recommendations. The Data Storage Directive, which the representative Skei Grande is aware of, has been the subject of an engaged and comprehensive debate in Norway, where the balances between privacy considerations on the one hand and the fight against crime on the other have been among the main issues. The representative Skei Grande is now also well aware that after this debate, Stortinget has taken its decision on the implementation of the Data Storage Directive in Norway. In this implementation, Norway has taken into account several of the concerns expressed by the Advocate-General, such as: the storage period in Norway is set at six months, while the Directive allows a storage period of up to two years. In addition, Norway has provided concrete guidance on the criminal offences for which traffic data can be obtained, which is consistent with the comment of the Advocate General that the concept of ‘serious crime’ needs to be further defined. It is also clear in the Advocate General's Opinion that one can repair the shortcomings of the Directive as a whole by means of national legislation. Some of those measures are in many ways within the decision of the Storting. When it comes to the government's view of the Advocate General's opinion, we take it for information. But the government is concerned with the Storting decision to introduce the Data Storage Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1931	I had not expected the Minister of Justice to refrain from dealing with the Storting decision. However, he is responsible for the overall policy on the legal security of Norwegian citizens. And when the Advocate General says that the Data Storage Directive is not «compatible» with the requirements we set for fundamental human rights, it is an overall assessment, sailor if I believe that the Storting has hit this to a minimum solution. However, it must be possible to get the Minister of Justice to have some opinions on the responsibility he has to prevent monitoring of Norwegian citizens, for example. by foreign powers. It's part of the Minister of Justice's responsibility. The recent revelations show that it is also important to limit attacks on the privacy of Norwegian citizens. So can the Council of State say something about what he considers to be his role in ensuring the privacy of Norwegian citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1936	This is an important part of the job that the government is doing all the time, and then it is based on the balances that Stortinget also made in its processing of the Data Storage Directive. In a more general perspective, it is right, as the representative Skei Grande points out, that the opportunities for monitoring in today’s society are – I’m not going to say unlimited, but they are very present from both private actors and other actors. It is important that, in every context, we have privacy in the back of our minds when we talk about that kind of regulation and how we should follow up the opportunities to provide our citizens with the necessary security and legal certainty. At the same time, I believe that the Storting was very conscious, even though the party represents Skei Grande, and the party I represent, during that discussion stood together about a different view of the discussions and the framework for the legal certainty of the directive. And it is right that the representative himself points out that what the Stortinge chose is what you might call a minimum solution within the framework of the directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1943	I assume that the Minister of Justice party was also conscious when the conclusion was reached. Now I'm going to ask even more directly about citizens' legal certainty. Today we know that, for example. Norwegian E-service and PST have a clear framework for monitoring Norwegian citizens. Nevertheless, most of Norwegian data traffic passes through Sweden which has a FRA law. How does the Minister of Justice feel that Norwegian E-service and PST can obtain information that will not be lawful to store in Norway but that is lawful to store in Sweden and that they can obtain from the Swedes? Can they use such information, obtained illegally on Norwegian citizens in another country, on Norwegian citizens in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1952	As the representative is aware, over time the government has been concerned about the FRA Act and Norwegian traffic across Swedish borders and Swedish cables. It is also mentioned in the Government Declaration, and it is a major and comprehensive issue. Both the Minister of Transport and the Prime Minister have been talking to the Swedish authorities about this issue, and one has wanted to try to find a practical solution. It's not very easy in the situation we're now in, with the cables walking where they're actually going. The same would be true in the case of other types of data traffic. The cables from Norway to the rest of the world must necessarily pass through other countries, so we will be able to face that challenge regardless of whether the cables pass through Sweden or through other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1965	My question goes to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘An important part of the climate solution is increased renewable energy production. Norway has a great potential for the development and production of offshore wind power through a combination of large seas and offshore technologies. What ambitions do the Council of State have for wind power at sea, and how does he see fit to achieve these ambitions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1974	Let me first say that I share Pollestad's view, that it is important to increase the production of renewable energy. That means both the Minister of Oil and Energy and the Government. This is why, with broad political support in Stortinget, a technology-neutral electrical certification system is in place, with the aim of expanding a total of 26.4 TWh renewable energy in Norway and Sweden by 2020. The system is technology-neutral and will therefore allow the most cost-effective technologies to be developed first. In practice, there will be considerable hydropower — unregulatable and adjustable — and land-based wind power. With regard to the development of offshore wind power in Norwegian sea areas, this is further ahead in time. A strategic impact assessment has been carried out for 15 marine areas. It has been consulted and is now being dealt with in the ministry. We have not concluded on how to follow up this investigation, but we support research and development – competence building – in the field of sea wind. At sea wind power is one of the six priority areas of the national R & D strategy in the energy sector, Energy21. The initiative is primarily carried out through the ENERGY research programme, covering everything from basic research projects to industrial research and development and demo. Furthermore, two of the 11 research centres for environmentally friendly energy – the FMEs – are directly focused on the exploitation of wind at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1985	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State does not set the production of renewable energy on land against offshore production. I want to challenge a little bit of what goes on in the opportunities and future job opportunities of the supplier industry in this area. It's true that these are largely immature technologies. It may be that these investments are going to go primarily beyond Norway's borders, but my question is: does the Council of State see the use of offshore wind as an opportunity to make the Norwegian supplier industry more robust and to give it more legs to stand on?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1992	Now it is that the export of Norwegian technology is partly under a department other than mine. But let me still try to do some reflections. The Norwegian petroleum supplier industry has been successful with internationalisation. Renewable technology has not been equally successful. I believe that here we have some great opportunities to facilitate that technology from Norway in the field of renewable energy is increasingly coming to international markets. That's why we're now looking at the possibilities of getting good experience from the INTSOK collaboration and trying to transfer it to the INTPOW agent. So helping to spread Norwegian renewable energy technology abroad is definitely something the government thinks makes sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e1999	Thank you again for your answer. Then we are also familiar with the fact that an energy message is to be provided. A total accumulation now supports it. Then is my short question: will the Council of State ensure that a broad mention is given and spent time and attention to the question of immature technologies in general and offshore wind, especially in the notified notice when it comes?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2006	I take note of the funny review of Stortinget's 'now' clear support for energy communication. It was a little different how the red-greens turned to energy messages in the previous eight years. So now there's an energy message. As the representative Pollestad will be familiar with, one of the things that the whole government is doing is supporting its work, increasing the focus on knowledge and competence – on technology development. Of course, it will also be clearly addressed in an energy message. Of course, this also applies to technologies that are approaching the market. Then I want to remind the representative Pollestad that we are already using a lot of resources to move technologies closer to the market – mainly through the Enova work, which of course will also be central in the time until we can provide an energy message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2019	‘Norway produces fewer and less cereals. Norway is increasingly consuming cereals. What does this mean for Norway’s agricultural food production?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2026	Norwegian cereal production is an important part of Norwegian agricultural production. Feed grain production is the raw material in feed for domestic animals and the production of food grain is the basis of Norwegian food meal production and Norwegian bread and bakery products produced. Cereal production in Norway was strongly increasing from 1970 to 1991, when the Norwegian grain area was at its highest. From 1991 to 2013, the grain area has fallen and has been reduced by a total of about 750000 decare. For the period 2005 to 2013, the cereal area is reduced by 11 pst. or 350 000 deches. The average cereal production for the last decade was for the first time slightly lower than 10 years earlier, especially because of the decrease in the cereal area, but also because the increase in yield per deer has decreased. Due to pollution and run-off challenges in some parts of the grain districts, cereals have been planted. Policies have also been sought to stimulate the production of beef with suckler cows. It has again resulted in a conversion from grain to grass. In the east, over 200,000 deer are replaced by meadows. The aim has been to stimulate increased food grain cultivation in Norway. From a very modest Norwegian proportion of food grain in the 1970s we are now in good harvest years as well as self-sufficient with food grain. The variation in weather conditions means that grain production varies considerably from year to year, both in total and for the food grain percentage in particular. An illustration of this is that Norwegian imports of food grain have been high in recent years due to poor summers in Norway, with low yields and poor quality of grain. Norway will continue to rely on imported feed resources in feed to achieve the objective of efficient and increased Norwegian agricultural production. Increased levels of food grain, increased demand for light meat and increased protein content in feed have led to the need for increased imports of feed raw materials in recent years. The proportion of Norwegian raw materials in the feed has therefore been decreasing. The figure from the Agricultural Budget Item shows 67 pst. Norwegian share in 2003 and 62 pst. in 2011. In 2012, the Norwegian share was some lower – 55 pst. – then due to severe weather conditions in 2011 and 2012, as mentioned earlier. The government wants Norwegian cereal production to continue to play an important role as a contribution to Norwegian food supply and in our work on food security. In order to increase Norwegian cereal production, this will include, inter alia: be important with measures that can improve land productivity. Here, grain producers themselves must take responsibility, but the advisory service and research also have important tasks. Knowledge-building and dissemination are needed to increase productivity, including: through improved plant material, varietal adaptation, measures to improve soil quality and good cultivation practices.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2049	I thank you for the answer, which I can join in on the actual description. In fact, imports of cereals in 2012 were over 1200000 tonnes, while Norwegian production in the same year was only slightly above 1000 tonnes. In other words, imports of cereals are now much larger than self-production. This means that Norwegian food production is becoming more import dependent on cereals, and Norwegian maritime supply is therefore reduced. Does the Council agree that the degree of maritime supply will be reduced by such a development?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2058	What I think is that the need for imports increases with increased demand and reduced production. But it's a complex question, because as the representative was also involved, this also has to do with what crop year you have. In 2011 and 2012, what I was about was bad. The harvest year can actually be plus minus 30 pst. In addition, it is important to bring down the rent share. It's high in Norway, it's been growing, and as I've been to earlier Question Time, it's so that you tend to take care of the earth in a different way when a owner instead of renting. It is therefore important to look at measures to reduce the rent share in further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2065	I ask that the Council of State respect the question and answer it, because the question is quite pointed out, and I want to repeat it: when Norwegian grain production goes down, Norwegian consumption of cereals goes up, we import more and more. It's a fact, it might look like any statistics. Does the Council of State agree that in such a development, the Norwegian degree of maritime supply is weakened based on Norwegian plant products?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2070	It's been like this for very many years, that we've imported parts of what's in the power feed. The degree of self-sufficiency in relation to exactly that will depend on what crops we have in Norway, and how we manage to exploit the land and land in the future. For example, an important action in the future will be taken. looking at research and development, looking at the types of cereals used, and looking at how to increase yields around Norway. Here, for example, plays. Bioscience plays an important role.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2079	‘Number from the Norwegian Institute of Agricultural Economic Research shows an average income jump for Norwegian farmers in 2012 of 46,200 kroner. Good crops, significant efficiency improvements and policy framework conditions can explain some of the increase. However, the level of employment needs to be further enhanced. Will the Council of State facilitate further growth in revenue in the coming years and, if so, how?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2086	Let me first say that I think it is good that we register an increase in income in 2012. I think it is good when self-employed people succeed. At the same time, we should be aware that 2011, which is the basis for comparison, became a poor year, in which the representative was also involved, with a reduction in income due to crop failure, and as a result of an accounting change due to the law on cooperatives and the conduct of back payments. Many of the policy framework conditions for farmers are laid down in the framework of the agricultural agreement. We are in the department preparing for spring negotiations, and I therefore ask for an understanding that I cannot go into detail on how we will prioritise the use of instruments. But it is from the government's political platform that we should focus on predictability and reforms to increase profitability. We will facilitate increased production and give greater priority to the full-time farmer. I will go through the grant schemes to target them better and give priority to schemes that directly benefit the farmer. I want to look at the investment instruments for recruitment, and I want to review and remove unnecessary obstacles to efficient operation. I will also consider measures that can contribute to reducing production costs. This could be done, for example, by: through increased production that makes better use of the equipment, or through guidance. There is, of course, the difference between gross income and costs that the farmer lives on. Lower costs will also increase competitiveness and help Norwegian producers to compete more easily with increasing imports. Then unit costs will also be lower. And as the representative of Storberget refers to in the question, there are many aspects of the formation of income that individual farmers have to deal with themselves. The progress in efficiency must continue. Soil quality and soil productivity need to be improved. The use of resources and technology needs to be better exploited. That's the way it is in all industries. It's continuous improvement work to improve the economic bottom line. And the spread in results for equal use in the NILF operational reviews shows that there is still a lot to pick up in the professionalisation of operations. I look forward to the negotiations and to the work of modernising the policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2101	I thank you for your answer. The question was to a large extent whether the Council of State believes it is right that we should have an income development as we saw in 2012. Now we're going to have to wait and see how 2013 comes out. But in a discussion where we talk a lot about predictability and bringing optimism into the industry, there will be an important signal from the Minister of Agriculture whether she will now confirm that it is a goal that this income development should continue, and not just turn it around in efficiency. I see from the last Bond magazine that e.g. in the case of pigs and milk, we have had an enormously good efficiency development – in the case of milk production, we have almost had a double per year, and in the case of pigs. An important signal to continue such a positive trend is therefore that the government not only talks about predictability and optimism as a general concept, but clearly signals that the growth we have seen in 2012 is a desired growth we would like to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2108	I very much agree with the representative of Storberget in describing the efficiency that has been in the industry. It's been far above what's been in society, 6 pst. – otherwise in the economy it is 1.5 pst. – so it's just taking off your hat for that. But it's important that it keeps going. So I think the income is important. In order for young people to enter the industry, it must also be possible to live by being a farmer and investing quite a lot of money. It is absolutely a goal for us to increase the profitability of agriculture in the future. I also believe that this is a prerequisite for succeeding in maintaining food production and increasing it, and not least having a living and strong food industry all over the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2115	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I think it is important that what is now said is said. I also use a bit of my speaking time to say that I think we agree that we can wish each other a good Christmas after a strip harvest. During the fall, we have determined that it is important that we have an increase in production, it is important that we have an agricultural policy throughout the country, as the Council of State said in the budget debate, and now it is also said that the growth we have seen — happily enough — in parts of the industry is important. Sees the Council of State that the signals received from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government concerning, inter alia, soil protection, import protection, cuts in the general budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and signals on future agricultural settlements can help reverse some of the optimism we have seen in the industry over the last few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2124	No, I think on the contrary that we have been very busy signaling that we want to increase profitability in the industry. That's why next year's agricultural settlement becomes incredibly important to be able to prioritize those funds even more rigorously, so that they benefit farmers. It is true that if you look at developments in this sector, the farmers have had the worst income development, while both the food industry and the food chain have had much better times, to put it that way. Finally, I would just like to wish the representative of Storberget a very good Christmas – and we will meet again in the New Year for new questions and new challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2131	It was a pleasant ending.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2138	‘The government has notified a new private school law that opens up several private schools. In Sweden, SVT has revealed that a number of private schools systematically outsource low grade students despite the fact that there are vacancies at school, cf. posting in our country on 31 October 2013 and that such siling is contrary to Swedish law.» In Sweden, private schools have far greater features. There are free school choices that researchers point to as one of the reasons why the sorting of students in Sweden has increased.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2145	The representative must stick to the text of the question submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2148	‘In what way does the Council of State consider that such a practice can be assured in Norway after the introduction of a new law on private schools?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2153	Today’s law requires approved schools to have the whole country as an entrance area and that the admission of students should be non-discriminatory. This government has no plans to change into a new law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2160	I thank the Council of State for a short reply. But I think what the government has to take over is that if you have private schools that become very popular and get more applicants than places, the question is how to record them. For example, if a new private school law leads to an increase in the establishment of private schools in Norway, for uncharacterised schools, such as primary and secondary schools, there must be some type of silage to a greater extent than at present. In Sweden, the system of free choice of schools includes: led to increased segregation and decreasing results. The project manager for PISA in Sweden points to, among others: the free choice of schools in Sweden, the system, as a cause of declining results. Then I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge: does he see that free choice of school, as it is described, among other things. in the Höres programme, can negative results be achieved in Norway, in line with what has happened in Sweden?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2171	I just want to repeat the answer to the first question: this is strictly regulated in today's private school law – a principle that the red-green parties also support. That principle will also be reflected in a future private school law. If it's that principle isn't strong enough, if there's any examples of it, we might consider tightening it up. But we're going to keep the legislation as it is today, just as it says. So it's not going to be any access to doing anything else there. When it comes to free choice, research points to a little different things. If you can use an anecdotal example instead, Oslo is a municipality that has had free school choices for very many years. At the same time, one of the most successful municipalities in the country has the most social mobility in its school, which is the best way to raise those students who need extra challenges. So it's obvious that there's no contradiction between letting students choose school and having a qualitatively good school that's also good at social cohesion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2182	The reasons given by the Minister of Knowledge also depend on the type of free choice system. The right has described seas, free choice of schools across county boundaries. That's the system that, among other things, the Swedish project leader for PISA actually warns against in Sweden. I am one of those who believe that the same policy in Norway and Sweden is pretty much the same. If you want a law that requires quality standards to be the criterion for starting private schools, the large commercial chains will quickly establish themselves here to land. Then we get a new school situation. Free school choice and changed funding for public schools can be part of changing School Norway quite drastically. How, then, to prevent some major changes in the offer and to ensure that the public is able to do so, for example: dimensioning the line offer, when students can apply freely to schools, public as private, across the county boundaries, which is the system Right-wing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2191	There were a lot of questions. Let me just say first that you want to start something called a commercial college in Norway, but you're not going to be allowed to make dividends. By definition, commercial schools will not be allowed, as it should not be allowed to make money in schooling in Norway — nor with a new law on free schooling. What's on the government platform is that you have to have free school choices across state borders. I think it makes sense if you implement it wisely. It's very strange, in many places, that a student who might live closer to a school in another state should not have the opportunity to apply to the nearest school, or that schools that develop special offers, rates in real science, science or anything else should not have the opportunity to attract students from other states. So it's an honest thing that the Workers' Party is against free choice of school anyway. It's okay now – but it's not this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2206	‘Norway has one of the most gender-based labour markets in Europe. This is largely due to gender-based educational choices. What does the Council of State think about it, and what action does he see as a remedy for this problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2213	In Norway, provision has been made for equal opportunities for all who wish to choose education. It means equal opportunities, regardless of gender and other background variables. It is very crucial that we manage to make the best use of resources. Nevertheless, we know that we have a strong gender-based labour market in Norway. This is an important political challenge. At the same time, it may also be that there are no simple political solutions to it, simply because a 15-year-old or a 16-year-old who chooses education does not because politicians say a certain thing – they do it because they want to. We know that there are considerable differences in the proportion of women and men in different disciplines and disciplines. Statistics show that in recent years women have increasingly sought traditional human-dominated education, such as: medicine and economics and administration, and to some extent also natural and technological education. Unfortunately, there is no parallel tendency among men to seek women-dominated education. There are some very direct policy instruments that can be used. Quotation is popular among many, additional points as well. Unfortunately, the effectiveness of these measures is weak over time, and the effectiveness of these measures is limited if there is no strong competition for study places. I believe that there is some caution with such instruments, because they are relatively radical instruments with little effect. At the same time, I believe that we should continue to have recruitment campaigns for primary school teacher, GNIST, initiated by the previous government and kindergarten teacher – GLED is the project there. They have paid extra attention to recruiting men for these programmes, which are highly women-dominated. Similarly, the National Centre for Real-School Recruitment has tried and focused on recruiting women for real-school, technology and engineering training.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2226	Thanks for the answer. I agree with the Council of State that politicians should not make educational choices for students and students. That's the other regime that we're not going to compare to, that operates. However, I believe that we must be able to have political instruments. In some subjects, gender selection is so strong that almost all students are of the same sex. It affects working life, the formation of wages and working conditions. It may even happen that part of the issue of non-response in Norway is about it, because we know that wrong choices affect non-response. Then it may be that the wrong choice is simply due to the expectations the student experiences – that it's about it, and not what that boy or girl really knows that they want to work with. I wonder what kind of instruments the Council of State might think of using. Could, for example: an equal opportunities grant is relevant for assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2237	When it comes to equality scholarships, I don't know the idea. I may need to read more about this before I give a clear answer. This is a difficult issue and, to a large extent, it is probably about cultural features that become structural features. That's probably also the reason for some of the more radical instruments, such as gender points or sex quotas, that I'm not saying we're going to remove or abolish. What I'm saying is that we have to be a little careful about believing too much in that kind of action, just because it turns out they don't have any good effect in the long term. Since there are cultural features, I think we have to work to simply change the image of what different professions are -- the image of the nursing profession being a woman's drug, the image of being a primary school teacher being a woman's drug. Some of it may be about increasing the professionalism of these professions. Otherwise – if I can get another 10 seconds – I would say that it is important for the government to show clear real-life role models to get, for example. girls more interested.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2246	Thank you for a good answer. I agree that it is a lot about attitudes, and not least about role models is very important. Equality scholarships are about giving a scholarship to those students who choose non-traditional education, so that they have financial incentives. With regard to additional points, I agree that it should be used with caution, especially because it only takes the studies where there is competition for places. However, there are some important studies, such as: Psychology, where it is very unfortunate if only female psychologists are trained – we should perhaps get more male, and veterinary training has successfully introduced that kind of supplemental score. That is why I am satisfied with the answer – if it is true that the Council of State wants to use additional points when it can be appropriate, and may consider this with an equal opportunities grant, as proposed by the NOU from 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2259	I promise nothing now. With regard to additional points, I simply say that we do not notify any change to what is today's legislation. So there's some principal considerations here. Any use of e.g. additional allowances or allowances make it necessary to take into account the person who is in a bad state due to his gender. As far as equality grants are concerned, I cannot promise that I will come back to Stortinget with a case – as you often say – but I will at least look at the idea, because I do not know it so well that I can say on the standing foot whether it sounds reasonable, or something that is not reasonable. But in general, I'm more of a follower of carrot than of a whip.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2268	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-18.ana.ud2341e2281	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
