ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e88	The representative of Marianne Aasen, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the welfare leave of the representative Kåre Simensen on 7 and 8 May from the Group of the Progressive Party on Health leave of the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen on 7 May and until further notice These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first deputy representative of the Nordland County, Kari Storstrand, there is an application for a waiver from the Stortinget from 14 May to 16 May under the authority of the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen, for welfare reasons. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Finnmark County: Willy Pedersen For the Nordic counties: Kari Storstrand and Allan Johansen
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e131	Willy Pedersen and Kari Storstrand are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e137	The President will propose the election of the President-in-Office of the European Parliament today. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting. The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e144	It is a pleasure to be able to make representations from representatives Per Olaf Lundtägen, Marit Nybakk, Per-Kristian Foss, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold, Trine Skei Grande and myself on the amendment of § 4 of the Law of 3 February 1995 No. 7 on the control of intelligence, surveillance and security services [[transparency]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e149	The representative, Mr Reiten, wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e152	On behalf of the representative Hans Olav Syversen and myself, I am delighted to present representative proposals for over-fulfilling EU legislation that weakens the competitiveness of industry and the activities of NPISHs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e157	Then the representative, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e161	On behalf of the representatives Nikolai Astrup, Borghild Tenden and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative on measures to reduce national greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e166	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e180	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e187	The propositions we have received will give all female workers in Norway a statutory right to free of breast-feeding with pay. Fortunately, the vast majority of women already have it today – all in the public sector and many through private sector agreements. But there are still a lot of people who don't have this right. Several of them are in service professions and are among the weakest in the labour market. By introducing a legal provision, everyone – both women themselves and employers – knows that it should not be a question of negotiation, but of course a right to combine work and breast-feeding without jeopardising the personal economy. There has been a broad consensus among those who have stated in the case that more should be guaranteed the right to pay under breast-feeding. It is also worth noting that the Norwegian law in force does not comply with the requirement of Article 10 of the ILO Convention on maternal protection, which states that breast feeding breaks are to be calculated as working time and then paid. By providing for one hour's paid working time in the case of breast-feeding, we comply with this. The proposal for a legislative decision is a follow-up to the equal pay report, which was dealt with in the Storting two years ago. There, the majority agreed to legislate an obligation on the part of the employer to cover wages and salaries without breast-feeding. In the message, it was stated that we women get a weaker wage trend when we have children. It's probably because there's still women who take primary responsibility for the smallest children. When distributing parental leave between parents, breast-feeding is undoubtedly one of the factors involved. The unemployed salary may give this consideration less weight. By giving women the right to an hour of breast-feeding every day until the child is one year old, we make it easier to combine work and breast-feeding. So we give mothers an incentive to go back to work earlier. In combination with good leave arrangements and father quotas – which we come back to on a case later today – we make some important choices in order to have more equal parenthood, which can help us to achieve a better wage development for young children too. It is important that there is still a high degree of flexibility in taking out breast-free. It will vary greatly what is most appropriate for each woman — whether one chooses shorter days off at each end of the working day, whether one goes home during the day to breast-feed, whether one gets a baby to work and breast-feed for one or more breaks during the day, or whether one has a paid break to pump during the day. I chose the last one because of the distance from home. Then it was quite possible to give my daughter breast milk in a bottle, and I could maintain breast-feeding for a very much longer time by doing so. It is important to have mechanisms to ensure that as much as possible is effective in maintaining breast-feeding, so that we contribute to meeting the health policy objective of increasing breast-feeding — in the interests of the very least. The right hand side and the front side show, among other things: to a hearing opinion by Mr Grieke, which is concerned that the proposal can help create a new barrier to increased female participation. I would like to point out that we cannot fail to implement good equality arrangements because we are afraid of discrimination. Discrimination due to breast-feeding is covered by the protection of the Equality Act against discrimination against pregnancy. It is then important to have a high level of protection against discrimination for pregnant women — and, of course, also for those on leave — and to address the cases that may occur. It is too easy to say that you should not have good arrangements because you are anxious to break a law of discrimination. By having schemes that as much as possible equalise mothers and fathers, employers are more likely to expect both young women and young men to be absent as a result of care for young children. Most employers will probably find it a good idea to get Mother back to work quickly after birth, and breast-feeding can contribute to it. In SV, we are proud that in recent years we have systematically helped to make it easier for both women and men to support themselves while at the same time having a family life. Today, we are dealing with two of these issues – an extension of the leave period and thereby a longer peace rate, and here, without paying, which makes it easier for mother to combine early childhood and work. I recommend the Stortinget to make decisions on changes to the Working Environment Act in line with the recommendations of the majority of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e211	The rapporteur, Mr Rannveig Kvifte Andresen, has presented in an excellent way the views of the government parties on this new progress which now makes it even easier for women to combine paid work with having young children. What has been descriptive of the Red-Green Government for eight years is that we have taken steps to make it possible for children to have more time with their parents – both their mother and father – and that there should be even greater opportunities for small children's families to be both active and have young children. We can proudly establish that we are the best country in the world to facilitate this. The proposal to ensure that all women, regardless of whether they work in the public sector or in service industries, in service industries, have the opportunity to return to work and continue breast-feeding is a new step forward that is important for all women. So it has been said from some teams that this is a system that is best for the most resource-intensive women – those with the best jobs, those who serve the best and who live in cities. I think the representative, Kvifte Andresen, in a glittering way described the flexibility of this system. You can take it out in the form of shorter working hours or that the child comes to the job of mother, where she is breast-feeding. Here, there's a lot of flexibility attached to the pay-free thing. In addition, we will be able to take even more care of health policy interests, which are very important – that Norway should be the world’s best mother country, that we are on the ammo in the world. We can do that despite Norwegian women returning to work and working. We'll make sure the kids get their mother's milk for the first year of their life. Then I find out that once we have taken the important steps to ensure women's professional activity and children's rights to be with their parents, that the Right Party and the Advance Party are in favour. They disagree that women who work in the service industries – the women who perhaps most need to get this right – have an opportunity to get paid without breast-feeding. It is the women with the lowest wages and the worst protection in working life that they do not want to have the right of all other women who have an active life in their first year of life. I think it is premature once again to record that the two parties that are so flexible in terms of parental leave – at least they express it – do not want to facilitate either flexibility towards mother or the child’s participation in what is most important for the child in the first year of life, namely to be with their parents and to safeguard the health policy interests that are here, so that the child’s first year of life can be suckled as much as possible. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party supports the government's proposal in an hour of paid breast-free for all women. I think it is sad that the Right and the Advance Party are voting against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e222	I have to say that it is quite touching to hear the representative Gunn Karin Gjul talk about how important it is for mothers to have their babies, at least until they are one year old. So given a matter that we're going to deal with a little later today on parental leave, this government is making it harder for mother to be at home and nurse her children. There was also a chronicle in the evening post on Saturday that showed that the government's parental leave could be an obstacle to breast-feeding. But that's not what we're discussing right in this case. Amming is important, we – all the parties – agree on that. I am very pleased that Norway is so high on the world ranking as to breast-feed its children as much as possible and as far as possible. Now it is that with my two children I was recommended that the first child be breast-fed for six months, and with the second child – six years later – the recommendation was one year. So it happens that they learned from time to time are fighting. But it was now a depression. The case we are dealing with today is a follow-up on equality for equal pay, where the government announced that they were considering the introduction of an obligation for the employer to cover salary during the first year of the child's life for all private businesses, and where the Progress Party in that case clearly stated that there was no support. We do not do that in this case either, because the Progress Party believes that the vast majority of employees today are covered by collective agreements, and they are entitled to pay without breast-feeding in their agreements. 95 pst. all private sector employees are covered by the collective bargaining agreement. Therefore, the Progress Party does not support such a legal requirement. We are satisfied with the arrangement that we have today, and believe it is good enough. We want to maintain a voluntary scheme where we negotiate with the employer about the possibility of breast-feeding in the places they do not have a collective agreement. Then there is also a question mark that the Progress Party refers to a couple of hearing bodies. There are important hearing bodies, and I also seem to notice that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman was clearly out there when this case came, saying that they were afraid that it would work against his purpose – that perhaps some employers would hesitate to hire women because they were aware of the duty that came then and that it could work against his purpose. What has been important for the Progress Party is to have a voluntary agreement. We also record that with today's proposals, to which the government puts forward, we impose a very large additional cost on these companies, which can also be crucial. That is why the Progress Party does not support the legislative proposal as it stands. We want to have the arrangement that we have today, with most people having an agreement. For the 5 psts who do not have it, we want to maintain the voluntary scheme – that we negotiate with the employer the possibility of breast-feeding. The Progress Party would thus like to vote against the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e239	Breast-feeding is important both for the documented health promotion effects it has on the child, the documented effect on the health of the child by reducing the risk of infection in the short term and by promoting neurological development in the long term, while reducing risk factors for cardiovascular disease. That's why breastfeeding is good. It is also important for the relationship between mother and child. The Health Directorate’s 2007 nationwide study showed that women who were full-time at the age of six months, as recommended by the Health Directorate and the World Health Organisation, are generally breast-feeding eight to twelve times a day. As the national centre of competence for breast-feeding pointed out in its opinion on consultation, it would be very burdensome for the woman to maintain such breast-feeding practice if she did not have the opportunity to withdraw a minimum of eight months’ leave after birth. The competence service has also clearly pointed out that there is little doubt that it will be very difficult for most mothers to implement recommended breast-feeding practices without 100 pst. leave. They further write: ‘A third of the parental leave will clearly prevent women from breast-feeding in line with the recommendations of the health authorities. [[...]] So the purpose of paid maternity leave is that mother should have time to nurse the child. Although health advice points out that a more flexible parental leave scheme is necessary to enable the health-promoting effects of breast-feeding, the Right notes that in the case of breast-feeding, the Government also formulates a policy with the expressed aim of increasing gender equality in families. In the hearing, it appeared that the government's proposal could, in fact, also become an additional barrier to increased female participation. Contrary to government intentions, many hearing bodies fear that this proposal will help to make female workers less attractive, because it may be more expensive for employers to hire women than men, and more are concerned that the outcome of government policies will actually contribute to a setback for women in the labour market. However, although most employees are already entitled to paid maternity leave, the government’s policy is not at all such as to allow them to breast-feed with today’s detailed parental leave scheme. The right recently received an enquiry from a police service woman in the operational position here in Oslo. This politician was expecting his third child. As she says, she wants to nurse her child as long as possible, and in line with the health authorities' recommendation. But as she tells us, when the janitor calls here in Oslo and gets a message of housewreck, burglary, or what's worse, then her janitor at the janitor's station will report back that it will take a while before the janitor can move out, because she has to breast-feed first? What this politician asks Right is why she cannot take out a larger part of the parental leave so that she has a real opportunity to be at home and nurse her child. With the government's parental leave division, she does not have the opportunity to be in full employment and breast-feeding, because everyday life in the workplace is not like the one you sit at the top of departments and design. She says she doesn't have the opportunity to take out the leave she wants to be at home and nurse her child. She won't be able to satisfy the government's mathematical proposals for equality. As this mother says, isn't the child's concern the reason we have a parental leave scheme, and isn't that why I as a mother should have the opportunity to be at home and nurse my child? As the politician says, good intentions from the government are not very helpful when it is impossible for mothers of young children to put into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e254	We in the Centre Party are pleased that today we are dealing with a legislative change that will give all working mothers with children under one year of age the right to breast-feeding. It is true that most people have such a right today through collective agreements and individual employment agreements. But there's still a part that doesn't have it, and they'll now get this right. Some do not want mothers with children under one year of age to go to work again. There are some people who have a very old-fashioned view of this, and who have also not wanted to welcome 14 weeks of paper. These seem to be quite right that women have the primary responsibility at home. They don't see the positive in that dads get the opportunity to spend a few weeks alone at home with the baby – and through it get the opportunity to get to know their kid in a completely different way from those who work most of the day. But fortunately, these haven't won out. We need the labour force. I expect employers too to be happy that their employees will return to work, and I want to make sure that this can happen. The need for breast-free relates to the extension of parental leave for fathers. When almost all fathers take out cardboard today towards a few percent a few years ago, it means that several mothers go out to work while the kids are young, and then the need for breast-feeding becomes more than before. The very matter of extending the paperwork will be brought back to us later today. This system is simple and should be easy to manage. All mothers with children under one year of age who work more than seven hours a day are covered by the scheme. It is important that we continue to focus on facilitating the breast-feeding of women in the first year of life of the child, especially for the health of the child, but also for the health of the mother. Only every six women today follow the country’s recommendation on full-time breast-feeding for six months. Research shows that women who stop breast-feeding during the first six months have a higher risk of anxiety and depression after birth. Therefore, breast-feeding is important, and that is what we must try to facilitate, while at the same time facilitating increased professional participation and more equality at home. The Right Party and the Advance Party believe this becomes a barrier to getting women to work. I totally disagree with that. The biggest barrier for women was when they were alone in taking out all parental leave – the time it was called maternity leave. It was an obstacle for women to get a job. In competition with men for the same position, there was a handicap, and it was enough that some employers preferred male jobseekers rather than young women. Now that it has become quite common for young men to also take leave, we have removed the most important barrier for women in working life. The pay-free is important for the individual concerned, but it is not a big deal for the business community. And that's important for the little ones to have the best possible. We also heard the representative of Hofstad Helleland who problemed that the politician could not do his job because she was going to have a breast-free period. But we also heard in a previous article how one could solve this by using the time to pump. This can be done by giving breast milk to a child even if it is not present. This is possible if you only want to make it possible for the employer to do so. That is why we in the Central Party wish to welcome this amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e284	The Christian People's Party supports the proposed amendment by the government. I will not spend much time repeating that argument and all the elements that have been used before by our allies in this matter. Nor do I have so much of my own experience – unlike some of the other speakers – on the topic we are discussing here. The government's proposal is that mothers who are breast-feeding children under one year of age and need to be free from breast-feeding work are entitled to pay from the employer during breast-feeding – up to one hour on working days with agreed working hours of seven or more hours. This proposal is one piece of the puzzle that we're still building: a family policy where it's not just going to work, but where it's going to be a good idea to combine participation in the world of work with being a parent. This is also a small but important piece in the puzzle game to ensure that women can participate in the work life in the same way as men. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it is not a good argument that most people today have arranged this through collective agreements. Just because it is an important premise for some women to be able to participate in the labour market, this should be a right – that you have to be able to take pay off in order to breast-feed. As the Ministry says, this could result in less emphasis being placed on breast-feeding when allocating parental leave. Now I think the breast-feeding care will be given a lot of weight in many homes when you distribute the parental leave. Nor is it a goal for Mom and Dad to be the same as parents in the first year. You'll never be, and that's what's the starting point for dealing with a case like this – that there are different moms and dads here. But mother and father being equivalent parents is an important goal. First of all, this is an important piece in the puzzle game to provide a family policy to combine work and parenthood – and to allow women to participate in the workplace in the same way as men.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e297	I believe this is an important day for the government. For me as the Swedish State Council, it is important that we work systematically and continuously to make it as easy as possible for both women and men to combine it to be good, close parents with being active – because it provides freedom of choice, independence and security. It is also important for children to have parents who can be present both for them and who, at the same time, have safety on the labour market, which provides them with financial security, which is important for children. The new provision of the Working Environment Act, which we now have to vote on, will ensure that all women are entitled to pay from the employer during breast-feeding during the first year of life of the child. The right to freedom from breast-feeding has been enjoyed by working women in Norway since 1956, when the rights were enshrined in the Labour Protection Act. The right to freedom has not been followed up with a corresponding statutory right to pay. This is probably the case in most countries around us. However, the social partners have to a large extent entered into wage and salary agreements under breast-free conditions. That's just about. 8 500 employees of mothers who do not have a contractual right to pay during breast-feeding. I am proud that our government has put forward proposals to amend the Working Environment Act which gives this right to all female workers. I think it's a slim comfort for them to hear the representative Horne from the Progress Party say that she thinks the situation today is good enough, because most people have this right. But these women don't have this right, and we're changing that right now. I think it gives greater freedom, greater security, and it also provides opportunities for more equal pay, which is also an important consideration behind this. It is important to be aware that among women who have not been paid breast-free by collective agreements, we usually find women with little education and in low-paid professions. This is also, to a large extent, a class question. The hotel and restaurant industries, service industries and goods trade are examples of industries where many do not have the right to paid breast-feeding today. We know that these women are actually breast-feeding less than women with higher education and higher pay. Many of the women we now reach with this proposal on paid maternity leave are precisely the women who need it the most, but so it is these women – and their children – who are at least cared for by the right-wing opposition, the Progress Party and the Right, and I think that is a paradox. I thought quite long that the representative Linda Cathrine Hofstad Helleland from Right had intended to conclude with the opposite of what is in the vote, namely that the Right is going to be in favour of the proposal, for it was a flaming post for breast feeding, but, no. In fact, I am somewhat uncertain whether the representative made the right statements from the pulpit, because in this case they are therefore voting against what she argued for all the way, namely that it is good for children and for mothers to be able to continue breast-feeding. To make sure that it is possible to be both a parent, in this case a mother, and to be a worker is very important, not least for the children, as I have argued. Free of breast-feeding allows mothers to leave for work in their first year of life and continue breast-feeding without significant loss of income. It is therefore important for freedom, important for security. Breast-feeding is important for the children, and consideration for the children may be the main reason why everyone should be paid without breast-feeding. At the same time, the system opens up for fathers to take a greater part of the parental leave, which is also important to our government. Absence from work related to childbirth and care is the reason for as much as 40 pst. the average hourly wage difference between women and men in the private sector. We know that poorer career development is often associated with having children, and especially long parental leave. Therefore, it is also important to facilitate a smoother distribution of parental leave between mothers and fathers. The wage-free is an important part of such an organisation. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the amendment to the law that makes breast-feeding a real opportunity for all working mothers, that the majority in the UK care about the children of mothers who have low education and are not organized, and that they care about these 8,500 women who are now given a new right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e310	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e314	This is not a debate for or against breast feeding. What's going on today is that 95 pst. Of all women already have that right, and that's very good. What the Council of State does not say in its statement is the negative consequences this may have for some private companies. It turns out it's going to be more expensive to hire women than men. There may be a reason why some companies will not hire these women, which is important to get into work. It imposes an extra cost on businesses, and the Progress Party has been busy listening to those hearing bodies that clearly say that they fear that for these women there can actually be worse than is the voluntary system today. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State not fear that it may be worse for these women, that imposing such a scheme on private enterprises might be discriminatory?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e321	No, I'm not afraid. So it's going to be a typical absence because of breast-feeding. One week’s absence, twice in a professional career if you have the same employer, so it’s not a long absence we’re talking about here. This is not about large expenses either. If you come back after having been away with 80 pst., you have taken full time and are back after approx. Ten and a half months, it costs an employer in the hotel and restaurant industry about. NOK 4000. It's not a very big expense. I also want to turn it around and say that today, precisely because women often take very long leave, many employers may think of it as a disadvantage, while we now make it possible to both go back to work earlier if you want it, and if it suits the family, and at the same time strengthens the ability of women to combine having children with being an employee with their own, independent income.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e328	If the Council of State is in doubt about that, I will assure the Council of State that the Right is very much too breast-feeding. There's no doubt about it. Employers now go out and say that this will weaken the position of women in the labour market. Because if a young woman and a young man are looking for a job, and the company has to pay for paid maternity leave, one would easily think that it would be cheaper for the company to hire the young man, because you know that the young man should not have to take out paid breast-free, but that might be the woman. It is the case that the hearing bodies have objected that this could weaken the position of women in the labour market, and that is not what the Council of State wants either. I know that there has been a discussion in the government about the public would pay for this instead of sending the bill to the companies. Does the Council of State think it would have been easier for women's situation on the labour market if this bill had been paid by the public authorities, or does the Council of State think that it would have no effect on the position of women in the labour market that businesses would pay for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e337	As I said in my previous answer, I believe this does not matter to the average employer. It's little sums, it's talkin' about. In principle, such arguments can be used in all cases where the objective or objective is to strengthen women's position on the labour market, i.e. to smooth out barriers that women face because they are women and because women have children and breasts, and that does not mean men. However, we have not had this as a starting point when we have strengthened the position of women in Norway, and by doing so, Norway has become the country of equality that many see us as. That is why we have also been committed to strengthening the place of pregnant women in the labour market and ensuring that the protection of discrimination is good. In principle, it could also have been criticised and said that increased protection against discrimination makes women less attractive in the labour market, but no one has argued with it. Yes, we could have been based on a people's security solution, but it would have created a lot of bureaucracy, and it's not for the Right either, just like the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e344	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e349	I thought it was a very good thing that Stortinget should deal with today; to give the law the right to pay without breast-feeding when one has a child up to one year. It's an important gender equality issue, it's also an important child-care issue, and it's an important health issue. This leads to a follow-up to the ILO Convention on the Protection of the Mothers. We have social health differences in Norway, and many of them are based on differences in diet. We often talk about dieting in the wake. The newspaper covers are often full of such substances, but breast-feeding is about securing our infants the most correct diet and the best health possible later in life. Today, we have national professional guidelines for infant nutrition. They are from 2001, and they are under evaluation, but they are the ones in debt, and these are based on the recommendations of the World Health Organisation. The advice is that infants should receive mother’s milk as their only nourishment during the first six months of life. One should continue breast-feeding throughout the first year of life and would like to continue in the second year of life. Some children may need solid food before the age of six months, but the introduction should be done at the earliest at the age of four months, and it was established in these guidelines that there is no advantage in providing solid food before the age of six months, as a general rule. In many other countries, women in Norway are good at breast-feeding, and we can get even better. My point is that this doesn't come about by itself, it depends on how we fix it – we have to want it to be like this. That's why what we're adopting today is so very important. I cannot understand that the Right Party and the Advance Party vote for women to risk falling into pay if they want to breast-feed. It's a bad health policy, and it's a very bad equality policy, and it's a barrier for women to get into the world of work, I don't believe in anything -- it's just a strengthening. We have submitted a public health report, which is now under consideration in my committee. There is also a great boost in the health center’s performance. This will also contribute to breast-feeding in women. Reference is made to the establishment of an authorisation scheme entitled ‘Ammedic health centre’. We also get mother/child-friendly maternity wards. In the past, there has been a gap between early printing and local health services that have not been able to follow up. This is also going to be a reinforcement, so overall, this is a very good bet on increased breast feeding in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e367	This case once again makes a very clear distinction between the right-hand side and the centre-left side of Norwegian policy in terms of gender equality and what contributes to equality. Also in this room, people from the right often point out that Norway is the world’s best ‘mother country’, that Norway has the best parental leave schemes in the world. Many of the success criteria are highlighted which enable many families to combine work and care today. But it must be boring for the right side to know that they have had to be pulled after the hair in all the games that have made sure that Norway is where we are today – so also in this case. I believe that in a few years' time what we are adopting today in Stortinget is a matter of course. And once again, the right-hand side is struggling and standing in the back row of that train that's about a better future society for our families. I also take the word to indicate that this is a human struggle. We who are fathers want our women to have rights in their working life, and that you do not have to pay for breast-feeding. It is often tempting to refer to personal considerations and personal examples, and it is nice that Linda C. Hofstad Helleland mentions it when she is sometimes contacted by individuals. It might have been better for this woman if she had been advised – from the Right – on how flexible the arrangements actually are, and on how good opportunities exist in the working life of those who want to combine work and care, instead of being used in the Right game, which is really about weakening women's rights in working life. This would not help women in Norway to have shorter parental leave, as suggested by the Right, or to be able to impose more overtime, as suggested by the Right in the past, or that it should be, for example, must be opened up to several temporary posts. This will, of course, be a direct attack on family safety and freedom and the ability to combine work and care. But here the cats come out of the bag, because in what Linda C. Hofstad Helleland says, it's really that the Right's proposal to cut paperwork is that women should take more of the parental leave bit, and that men should be out working. That is what they really think they want. This leaves us with the classic distinction and that the right-hand side's so-called freedom of choice is the choice between work or care, while our freedom of choice is the ability to combine work and care. Therefore, we need a work life that protects the family, and pay under breast-feeding is a new step in that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e386	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e400	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e414	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e428	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e437	After all, the timing of this matter has already begun. It is not easy to make a dossier on what the Committee agrees on in this matter that we have here in front of us, but one thing that we fully agree on is that we have the world's best parental leave scheme. We have an arrangement that today is 47 weeks for those who take out 100 pst. It's a good system, and there's a lot of people using it. But it is not the government parties – with the centre parties – that have the exclusive right to a good family policy. The bourgeois parties have also supported the system that we have today with a very good parental leave scheme, let me just make it quite clear, and that is probably what we agree on. So we have the differences, which come out very well in this case, in this topic that we've dealt with quite a number of times in the last four years. It's been a real repetition. And it's like previous speakers in the breast-feeding case said so clearly, that this is where the differences in the parties come up. What is important for the Progress Party in this matter is to maintain a good parental leave, but to have flexibility and freedom of choice for the family. The Progress Party believes that we are not politicians who know best what the individual family needs. And when we talk about freedom of choice, it's a little strange to hear that for the representative Stokkan-Grande, it's a certain freedom of choice that families choose exactly what the government has adopted and put in place some quotas and rules. I have to say that it shows little faith in the family, it shows little faith in mom and dad, especially in dad, that they can't manage to do this distribution by themselves, without us politicians getting involved. Then we read the daily newspaper on Sunday, where the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande talks about it being a 'daddy-ran' that happens on the right side, that is, by fathers losing the two weeks if the Advance Party and the Right decide. First of all, it's not a rake, and it's not a cut in the parental leave until it's adopted today, because today it's 47 weeks, and no one has said to cut the current solution. But what the Progress Party has said is that we do not want to expand the arrangement with the two weeks that are now reserved to father. We do not want a more rigid system, we want a flexible system. We have to stop regulating the whole family, because the families themselves know how to organize everyday life. The Advance Party also wants the family to benefit itself by allowing mother to take over the weeks that father cannot take out, or that father can take over the weeks of motherhood. We also want an autonomous exit right, and I wish that the government instead of extending this arrangement reserved for father by two weeks could focus more on an autonomous exit right to father. We know that there are quite a number of things that the government should rather give priority to instead of extending the system by two weeks. We have quite a lot of work ahead of us on the family policy situation. We have it with respect to the ongoing nursery receptions, and we also have, as I said, it with the autonomous right of withdrawal. The Progress Party wants to spend the money in a slightly different way, and at this stage the Progress Party does not want to go into an increase in parental leave by two weeks to father, but to come back and see what we want to spend that money for in the budget. But why not stand together and fight for a good parental leave with flexibility? Arild Stokkan-Grande was in Dagbladet saying that Norway has the best fathers in the world. Yes, we have the world's best fathers, but we must have faith in the fathers. We must have faith that fathers are able to stand up to both mothers and employers. Why not then take a fight against the employer if the employer is the problem of parental leave? I must say that I have faith in today's Norwegian man. I believe that the Norwegian man will have better time with his family, with his children, and then we have to give him the right by having a flexibility that the family can adapt to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e456	We in the Center Party are very pleased that the parental leave increases by two weeks, and that these weeks are reserved for father. Paperpaper, which was introduced in 1993 and subsequently increased to 12 weeks — and from July 2013 to 14 weeks — has been a success. From the fact that a few people used the scheme initially, it is now approx. 90 pst. of all freshly baked fathers taking out cardboard. It is also very gratifying that the length of the permafrost they take has followed the evolution of the period of leave. For too long, parental leave was synonymous with mammary perm. The changes that have occurred in recent years underline that parental leave belongs to both parents, and it is not for parents’ sake that it is important but for young people. The Progress Party and the Right do not support this extension, on the grounds of children and family. It's completely incomprehensible to me. It is precisely for the sake of the children and the family that it is important to increase the time parents are at home with the kids, and especially to increase the father's leave. Sunday night I sat and watched a program at the NRK. It was about why such a high proportion of working mothers become ill — the more children, the more sick leave increases. This is clearly a problem. It is difficult to be both active, follow up children in kindergarten, school and leisure activities, be at home with sick children when required and make sure that the house and home are in order – and whenever anyone should lie down, follow up on whether there have been job e-mails that cannot wait until the next day. It's tough enough if one is two to share, but even today, in one of the world's most equal societies, the homework in the home is not particularly evenly distributed between mother and father. It's worrying. The situation of many mothers, with primary responsibility for children and homes in addition to full employment, is affecting women's health, and that's not good. It's not for the best of the children and the family if someone like your mother hangs in the strap in such a way that you get sick by it. It is therefore extremely important for measures to create more equality at home at an early stage. That's why the 14 weeks of paperwork are so important, because it can be a part of breaking a pattern that is otherwise hard to get out of. If your mother is home a year with your baby while your father is working, you often go into a pattern where your mother gets up at night and has the primary responsibility for everything at home. It's very easy that this continues even when the leave period is over. But with a father who is at home and has this role for 14 weeks – in fact over three months – before both parties, as most often, go to work again, hope and believe in the Center Party that this situation will be different. This scheme will help create a greater degree of equality in the thousands of homes, for the benefit of children and families. It is not exactly as the Right Party and the Progressive Party say that young people are becoming an instrument of gender equality policy. The point is that the paperwork is important, in many ways – not least because the children get to know their father in a completely different way than one has had the opportunity to do in previous times – and that Dad learns to know his children in the same way. There are also cultural barriers to taking out leave for fathers. Fortunately, this is about to change after the paperwork was legalised. If this right had been entirely ‘voluntary’ – as it is said – it would probably still have been strong leadership, or at least unwritten wishes, from many employers that men should take out as little cardboard as possible. If you want to create permanent changes, it's actually so that you have to go on with some rule changes. Even though a principle would want it unnecessary, we know that it is necessary to do it in order to reverse a culture. That is why we in the Center Party believe that the paper should be legalized, and again: we are pleased with the increase in the parental leave reserved for father who comes from 1 July. We hope and believe that this scheme will contribute to a better everyday life for the children, for the mother and for the father – for the whole family.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e486	The rapporteur, Mr Horne, said that the Progress Party and the Right had such great faith in the fathers that there was no need for a father's quota. That's what NHO leader Kristin Forest Lund now characterizes as naive, and in the newspaper last week she said the following about the party Right: ‘It’s very naive of the Right to think that fathers will still take out long leave when they don’t have an allowance. In Denmark, for example, fathers stopped taking leave when the father quota was removed. If men have the opportunity to take out two weeks' leave, they do. If they have the opportunity to take out four months, they do it." That's what the NHO director says, and that's what the fact is. Before 1993, when we also had a great permit scheme in Norway, almost no fathers at all took out parental leave. When we introduced four weeks of paper issue in 1993, almost all fathers took out the four weeks immediately. We know that with every increase in the spring quota, the size of the spring quota outlet follows the size of the spring quota. It tells us that we're still living in a society where it's demanding for men to take leave if they don't have a legal right attached to it. Therefore, the consequence of both the Right and the Advance Party's policies will not be that fathers in any case will take leave. The consequence is that fathers lose a right they've been fighting for many years to get, and that has resulted in that we actually have the world's best fathers. This birth rate doesn't just result in the rights of fathers, it actually results in kids getting to know both parents in the first year of life. That's in itself a good sail. Nor is it harmful for women to achieve greater equality in the workplace. It is not harmful that we actually achieve three things at the same time as a spring quota. The Right Party and the Advance Party are trying to make it a negative thing that we also contribute to equality in the workplace, that it helps children get more time with their father and that fathers actually get a right. Then it's like we already have the best parental leave scheme in the world today. What the red-green government is doing now is expanding the world's best parental leave scheme from 57 weeks to 59 weeks. This extension is not included in the Right and Advance Party. What we can see is that every week with which the term of leave has been extended has been introduced under the red-green government or a government made up of the Workers' Party – with the exception of one week. So when the representative Solvency Horne – as the representative of Hofstad Helleland will probably do later today – stands and beats his chest and says that we are so proud of the permissive regime we have achieved, it must be said that these parties have been dragged after the hair every single time. They've never been a driver because today we have the best permit arrangement in the world. I just have to say that I find it disappointing that these two parties are not in favour of adopting the two new weeks, which will in fact be a further improvement in the rights of fathers in connection with parental leave. We had a discussion about breast-feeding earlier today, which I'll say something about. It sounds like mothers are filling the baby until it's a year old. The National Health Councils recommend that mothers breast-feed until the child is six months old. What we know is that with the flexible leave system that the red-green government imposes, mothers can be home with their child for 42 weeks. It's much more than half a year. It helps achieve many things at the same time. It helps women to support their child until it is six months old. It helps fathers to participate in the child’s childhood growth in the first year, and it also helps mother to be active and combine it with a good family life and having young children.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e504	Norway already has a very rough parental leave scheme. That's right very happy. Right is happy that there are many fathers who take out a lot of paper magazine and are at home with their children. That's how we think it's still going to be, even if you don't necessarily have a ratio. We are very pleased that many mothers are taking parental leave. That's how we think it's going to be, without having to have a mother's own quota. We believe that it should be up to the family to decide for themselves how to organise parental leave, because it is the parents who know best what is best for the individual child, and what is best for the family. We politicians are not the ones to decide. There are limits to politics. This is just such a matter – the family itself must be allowed to decide what is best for its child. For the Right, it's very important to have equivalent parents. It's important for us with equality. Equality for the Right is about giving fathers and mothers equal opportunities and equal rights. That's why the Right is a little skeptical about expanding the feather quota for another two weeks – because there are so many fathers who have no rights in today's society. There are about 6,000 fathers standing completely without rights. There are 6,000 fathers, with their own earnings, who have paid taxes for many years, who have worked full-time for many years, but who stand completely without the right to take out parental leave because mother has not earned the right to parental leave. When mother has not earned the right to parental leave, there is no father's allowance. So while you choose to expand the feather quota further – from 12 to 14 weeks – for the lucky fathers, there are many thousands of fathers who don't have the right to be home one day with their child. I think that's wrong. I might have expected the government to use the latest possibilities it has to make changes related to giving all fathers equal rights and opportunities. We also see that there is a very little seamless transition to kindergarten. This means that many mothers have to take unpaid leave or leave or leave their child to a day-old mother, because you cannot take out the entire leave. Some time ago, a father contacted me here at Stortinget. His name is Lars. Lars has been a father for the first time. He runs a single-man company where he treats people with bad backs. The son of Lars was born after 1 September last fall. He thus does not have the right to a nursery place. Lars's wife has to get back to work after seven months. After the red-green quota system, she won't be allowed to take out any more of her mother's quota. Lars would very much like to take out more than twelve weeks' leave with his son, but, as he says, then in practice I will go bankrupt, when I can't treat my patients in the three months. Lars is looking for Nav to transfer his leave weeks to his wife. The answer is no. Even if the son doesn't have a kindergarten, and the family doesn't get the cabal to go up because they haven't been able to work out the initiation after the red-green nursery reception, Nav isn't understanding. Nav suggests that Lars's wife can take vacations or leave without pay. But for Lars and his wife, who are in the start-up phase, with high mortgages, high student loans and high car loans, vacation and leave without pay are not always an alternative. This is the consequence of red-green detailed family policy, where all those who don't fit into the red-green box are left to themselves, and where the child's best consideration is set aside, because mathematical equality is the most important of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e521	We are now going to decide to extend the benefit period for parental leave by two weeks. It's a proposal that's basically promoted to expand the father's quota from 12 to 14 weeks. We have every reason to be satisfied with the leave system in Norway – it is extremely generous – and to ensure that through earmarked allowances, we give children the right to spend much of their first time at home with both mother and father. It is not long since it was only expected that father would be home for a short time when the child was completely newborn, primarily to help mother. When I had maternity leave myself, I started working again after five months. The granddaughter had no leave at all. For my daughter, on the other hand, it was a matter of course with long leave and that father would also spend much of this time with his daughter. It is good for me as a mother now to see how it is quite natural for them to share their home time, which they must now have, in the absence of kindergarten. It's no big news that we're now increasing the leave period by two weeks. It has already been adopted in the budget. That means you get 14 weeks to father and 14 weeks' leave time to mother. So the remaining 18 or 28 weeks you can divide, depending on the extent of the withdrawal. Whether we want to have our own spring quota is an ever-repeating debate we have here in the Chamber. I have already heard the Right and the Advance Party argue against this. I would like to say again that it would have been great if it had been so that it was quite natural and of course that mother and father shared the parental leave more or less like each other, so that the children had equal opportunity to get close contact and connection with both father and mother. Had this been a reality, we could have had a free distribution of the leave period, but reality is not like that. It was only at the introduction of the parental quota that father began taking out parental leave. As the spring quota has increased, father has taken more time, but not necessarily full time. 49 pst. by those who took out the spring quota in 2011, took out 10 or more weeks of the 12-week quota. Only 7.3 pst. took out more than his father's quota. So still it's mom who definitely takes the most out of leave time. This is, of course, due to expectations from father, expectations from mother and not least expectations from employer and society. The employer has a expectation that it is mother who should be at home with the smallest. But Dad's quotas gradually reverse the expectations – that Dad too should be at home. The employer expects young fathers and young mothers to be at home with their children, but unfortunately we see some examples of employers being willing to pay, so that father should not avail himself of his father’s quota. With father as an bystander and natural caregiver from the beginning, it is likely that he will also continue to be a natural caregiver as the children grow up to. Hopefully, it helps us to get a more equal distribution between father and mother in homework and to be at home with sick children in kindergarten and school later. We've seen that only when fathers have a right to claim, they take out the leave. The representative Horne has a naïve belief that, despite the experience so far, father will take out custody without a legal right. I will not repeat the arguments of the representative, Gjul, but refer to all the arguments raised in her contributions. When the Right Party and the Advance Party problematize the inflexibility of parental pen withdrawals, only the withdrawals of the father are made difficult. Why should it be so much harder for father to take out leave than for mother? When it is allowed to be so difficult and still repeats that it is difficult for a father, it becomes a self - fulfilling prophecy, and it remains more difficult for a father. It is fully possible to transfer the allowance to the partner in special situations, and not least: it is possible to take the allowance graduated, i.e. as a part-time withdrawal, until the child is three years old. Any removal of the parental quota will contribute to less family freedom, as it will in turn lead to a pressure to expect mother to be at home with the smallest. Instead, with an extension of the parental quota, we achieve that the children get more time alone with Dad. Through political will, we facilitate more equal parenthood. With a generous parental leave, with father's allowances, and now also after each salary under breast-feeding and full child-care coverage, we give mothers the opportunity to participate in the work. That is what is the real freedom. And we give the children the opportunity to have nourished and present fathers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e542	Like case no. 1 on the agenda today is about organising the combination of participation in working life and parenthood. The right to breast-feeding with pay and a good parental leave with flexibility are an important part of it. A father's quota does not reduce the family's freedom of choice, as the right-hand side claims. In a society where many employers don't understand how fathers spend time on papcy, the birth rate is just a trump card for many men — and it strengthens the freedom of choice. So far, all right. But the fact that the father ratio is good for the family doesn't necessarily mean that the effect is greater the longer the ratio. Of course not. Had it been this way that the longer the parental quota, the better the contact between father and child, and the better this became for the family as a whole, the parental leave should be shared equally — for example. 28/ 28 pst. or 50 pst. Whether to automatically But it hasn't the red-green suggested so far, although I sometimes hear that someone thinks loudly in that direction in the red-green camp. The point is that there's a balance here. If we go too far, the spring quota won't be a trump card, but it'll be a black entry. Then the spring quota becomes a forced strain for the family, which means that you have to set yourself up in a very special way, which is not determined around the kitchen table, but around the King's table. This is precisely because employers and society still do not fully accept the importance of fathers’ presence and papacy, that a little political governance can strengthen freedom of choice, but too much political governance weakens freedom of choice. The Christian People's Party wants an extension of the parental leave, because we see that a lot of people are struggling with the time squeeze and that it is difficult to make everyday life go up. The Christian People's Party is in favour of a model with 68 weeks of parental leave, ten weeks being reserved for each of the parents. The Christian People’s Party therefore supports the extension of the parental leave, but not the extension of the mother’s quota and the father’s quota, respectively. I take up the proposal in the position that the Christian People's Party is behind. Then it's said that the fathers take out more leave the more we increase the feather quota, is evidence that this is good policy. It gets a little naive when it's promoted that way from the left-hand side. The reason why fathers take more leave is that if you don't follow the law, the family loses the leave weeks. Then there is a very square picture of Norwegian parents – Norwegian fathers – and Norwegian families here in the hall today. Ensuring a father's quota brings positive experiences for many men, where both mother and father change their primary responsibility in the first year, but there is no evidence that the effect accumulates, that the longer the birth rate, the more positive the later in life. We don't know anything about that. Nor is it the case that in all families men have to be almost forced to learn care. In many families, Mom works shifts, maybe both jobs shifts, and you switch to caring for whatever your father's quota or not. The right side weakens the freedom of choice, the left side weakens the freedom of choice – the solution lies in the centre.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e557	The representative of Øyvind Hope has drawn up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e560	Then we are there again: a new round of a case that creates high temperatures throughout our country – and well, because this is a very important issue that affects most people in Norway. What surprises me is that we repeatedly end up in a discussion about a freedom of choice that does not take into account reality, a freedom of choice that is independent of power structures, traditions, gender roles and economics. I've never heard of such freedom of choice – it's a desktop freedom. It's just theory and has no root in reality. That's how we meet with expectations. Expectations are related to gender roles, they are linked to traditions, they are linked to culture, and sometimes they are linked to religion as well, and they are linked to economics, power and positions. What I am sure of is that I am very happy that we in Norway – because we have had an active gender equality policy driven by politically committed people both outside and inside political bodies – have gained greater freedom to define our gender, our culture and how we want to live our lives, and expectations and pressures from outside have gained less leeway. It's just a good thing for our society. It's good for women, it's good for men and it's good for children. I've said it before, and I like to say it again: I remember what it was like – or that is, I don't remember it, but I've been told what it was like – the time I was born. My father was one who was present at birth. It was quite alarming that time. He was interviewed by Women and Clothing, or was it the evening post – they continue to argue about it, but at least it was alarming, because it was not common for men to be present at birth. Nor was it common for men to ride a baby carriage. So it began to become progressively more common. Gradually, because women were for it, and because men fought for it, because they saw that it was valuable to be present for their children, they were pressured to get a father's quota – introduced in 1993 with the then child and family minister Grete Berget. Then men began to take the week that they then got, and they wanted more. When we, the red-green government, took over in 2005, we had fathers of five weeks. It wasn't that much. With this decision that we make today, men get 14 weeks. We are taking new steps to bring children and fathers together, to make it easier for fathers to resist pressure from conservative employers or employers who, of course, also have economic motives for their wishes, and to prevent fathers from keeping away from that contact because of mothers who, for various reasons, want the entire leave period sea – there may be good and less good reasons for doing so. Women also gain a stronger position in the labour market by breaking the conservative expectations that make employers, when they see female and male workers in front of them, have different ideas in their head. When they see a female worker, they say, "She's probably going to have a child, she's going to be gone and there's going to be a spoil and a staple." They don't have the same mind in their head when they see a male worker -- that's the way it is. With these changes that we've gradually implemented, we're able to break it. To present it as a peep valley, as it is often done from the right-hand side – I just can't understand it. I fully agree that we do not have a perfect system today. There are aspects of the permit arrangements that are unfair and that are perceived as bloodyly unfair to individuals. There are also aspects of our kindergarten rules that we want to do something about. But I am also very proud of the changes we have made in kindergarten, because I also remember – I remember – what it was like before, when we took over the government power, and especially before SV took the initiative in the kindergarten conciliation. Then it was almost impossible to get kindergarten places very many places in this country. Today there is a right. Then we have to strengthen this right and make sure it applies to all children, but then we also have to have good staff, because as Minister for Children, I am concerned that the one-year-olds in kindergarten should have safe adults who are stable and present for them. We're not going to get a lot of new one-year-olds in, by having, for example, a bunch of new one-year-olds. two entries per year, without having ensured that standard. But it is also the right-hand side – so there are great differences in Norwegian policies, for those who thought otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e577	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e581	I just have to take the opportunity to say that I am happy that the government has already seen that the private kindergartens are struggling and increasing the percentage to 96 pst. in the revised budget, but what they should have done was go fully as the nursery agreement said, with full equal treatment. But that was not the line to the Council of State. The Council of State is aware several times that there are now new steps to Dad's rights and is proud that Father has obtained such good rights under this government. We know that Dad is struggling with a breakup. This government has taken very much into account father in a happy life. The importance of the father's presence in his first year of life is very much appreciated. But we also know that in the event of a break in life, it is Mother's rights that come in, and Father stands without rights. The Council of State has been involved in the issue of exit rights, and my question to the Council of State is: What measures will the government take to improve the rights of the father, both in terms of exit rights and in the event of a breach of life?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e588	When it comes to lifebreaks, the most important thing we can do is to make sure that we have fathers present from the very beginning. Then at least you must not start with what the Progress Party wants, namely to prevent just that and drive us back in time because there are fewer fathers present from the very beginning. Cash support is another example of how to not organize society if you want your fathers to have a greater chance after a break in life vis-à-vis a mother who has been very much at home with the children. So this is the question that the Progress Party has raised in the setting in this case: it is about the social welfare period automatically moving to that of the parents who have the daily care, and it is usually the mother in these cases where they leave each other before the child is three years old. I'm going to come back with an assessment of what we're going to do with it, but I think you might be e.g. may bring it in by means of compulsory mediation at the family protection office.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e593	I listen to the statements of the Council of State and understand that she has a very great commitment to the views of the Right and the Advance Party, but I'm looking a little bit to understand the Council of State and Government's own thinking in this area. When I hear the statements of the Council of State, I have to ask first: Is it such that it is the goal of the Council of State that mother and father should take out 50 pst. each of the permits? My second question is: is it that the first year of life for children is better than the division of parental leave between parents, or is it primarily in the interests of parents' participation in working life that we are served by sharing parental leave as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e600	The last question I think covered quite appropriately in my post. I think that is a good thing for both women and men in the labour market. It gives greater freedom to be a different priority worker, it gives greater joy at home and it is important for children to have both mothers and fathers present. It is also important for children to have mothers who can serve for their lives and have an independent position in the labour market. So there's a lot of reasons why this is good. It is not desirable either from the SVs or from the government that we should divide the leave period into two. I think it's important to take into account that there are differences. It is also that a birth and pregnancy can be tough, and it may be a wish for some mothers to have a longer recovery period, for example. I don't think we should be too rigid in our approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e607	The last one was a useful clarification. But my next question is then linked to the robustness of the feather quota politically, and to the legitimacy of the people. The Christian People's Party and the SV agree that it is important to fight to keep the father's quota. But there is also no doubt that if one increases the quota too much, it is seen as detailed management by the parents, and my question to the Council of State is then: Isn't the Council of State afraid, as you go even further into detailing how families should set up the first year of life for the child, that you create more irritation and contribute to weakening the legitimacy and the emergence of the birth rate among the people most?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e612	Let me first say that I distance myself from the concept of detail control. It's about 14 weeks. With that proposal we have even given two weeks more – the Right Party and the Advance Party are unfortunately against the two weeks on top. I don't think it can be detail management. There is a very great flexibility in the system today, with very many weeks to free disposal between parents. However, there are important points the representative brings in. We're going to be careful to go too fast. I think it's important to ensure flexibility in this system, but talking about detail management is definitely unreasonable. I think it's a pity that the Christian People's Party goes as far back as ten weeks reserved for father. I think there are also many fathers who will respond. It's a risk that the Christian People's Party is running, with such a suggestion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e621	Replicate cord shift complete. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e626	The Family and Culture Committee sometimes meets with international guests. The representative, Solvency Horne, from the Progress Party, and the signatures often share these international meetings. I have a perm that says equality, which is now getting so tired that I have to get a new one, because everybody wants to talk about when they get here, is, how did they do this? How have they managed to create such an equal society? How do they do it with the parental leave scheme? It's a very successful system. The introduction of spring allowances has led to more equality in the labour market. Norwegian fathers have a better chance than ever of being together with their kids and bonding tighter ties to them at an early point in life. I totally agree with VG's leadership yesterday, where one said that when Erna Solberg from the Right falls over the parental leave system, she "bombs roughly". I'm also in agreement with VG's leader who believes that federal quotas are good welfare policies and give more freedom of choice and not less, as the Right Party and the Progress Party claim. There is also a reason to listen to the world of work, to both the NHO and the LO. It's a lot -- you ask me -- which is relatively undecided on the civilian side leading the election to the fall. It is a little uncertain how economic policy should be governed. It's also pretty uncertain which climate policy we're going to have. But one thing that's absolutely certain is that with the Right and the Progress Party, fathers' right to parental leave disappears. It's a bad solution and an already tested and old idea, which we see in particular. Denmark. So I would just like to say that I'm reacting a little to the human vision that the Right Party and the Progress Party are talking about. For the Labour Party, equality is about equality between men and women – men and women. I think it's broken when one thinks that this is something fathers should just fix themselves. Imagine if we had told those women who have claimed their rights over the years! The Labour Party and the Government want to facilitate that fathers can be more likely to be with their kids. Finally, I think that there is every reason to expect a greater level of precision in this debate. The representative of Hofstad Helleland believes that if mother has not lit dishes, father does not get home one day with the child. That's wrong. Father has the ability to take up to 38 weeks with 100 pst. pay or 48 weeks with 80 pst. wages and salaries. This can only be accessed by nav.no and check. Then we'll see about the fall. It will be a policy choice – without doubt – both for family policy and for gender equality policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e645	It's a direction choice with regard to child policy, which is what I burn the most for. That's why I'm so incredibly fond of cardboard. I see what it's doing. I see it in my family. I have four grandchildren, and at least the grandchild has cardboard. I see the big changes that happen in the relationship between the two that are together all day. We know, we're mothers and we've been with children, how much that means that the very first year you can be with your children and establish the security of that relationship very early. I'm very concerned about equal parenting. I'm very concerned that kids are going to have as much right to their father as to their mother – to be as safe with their father as with their mother. If we're going to get it done, we're going to have to have paperwork. If we're going to do that, we have to take into account that the structures of society are still not as natural for father as for mother to take parental leave, and that business doesn't take it as a matter of course that dad should have cardboard. On the contrary, there are many structures that tell us that your job is probably more important than this, your job is more important than your mother's. There are many ways to put a bad conscience on women — for example: that they are no longer at home with the children than they are. That's why we need these changes. I am very pleased that the leader of the NHO has gone so clearly and supported this from the point of view of enterprise policy and equality policy, and sees that some arrangements need to be put in place if society is to change. That's what we've done. That's why it's really strange that the games that are now against expansion and the paperwork are the ones that use the lines here to ask for equal parenthood and if it's not time to do something about it. Well, that's what we're doing, that's exactly what we're doing. What we're doing now is we're giving dad and kids the opportunity to get the safe relationship that makes fathers safer and can be more obvious caregivers even in life-threatening situations. So it's very strange to hear this debate today. So, as the Council of State says, there's a need to look at some of the techniques around parental leave, which can be very complicated -- that you get a process that's easier to understand, and where it's less easy to make mistakes, that the system has to include everyone, and that we get more babysitting in place. This is what makes flexibility for some families not good enough today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e656	Why not stand up and fight for a flexible parental leave," said the representative Horne. That's exactly what we're doing, as opposed to the Right and the Advance Party. We triple the parental leave and give fathers flexibility to take two weeks longer leave. We give women flexibility to work and compete equally in the labour market, while giving them flexibility to breast-feed their child. This case shows how the ideology of the Progress Party and the Right restricts the freedom of people. The comments make it clear: ‘These members believe that a society with less government governance and more freedom for individuals is important in itself.’ They go on to say, ‘A free distribution is about freeing parents to determine for themselves the distribution of leave weeks.’ Here you might as well add 'after the income of father', because that's what this is all about. This is about having a system – as opposed to the Right and the Advance Party – where, in the first year, we release parents from the economic and conservative systems, which force them to choose unevenly. The Council of State says it brilliantly from this pulpit: this is about fighting the conservative systems, which means that women are locked into an unfair labour market, a labour market that does not distribute wages and income evenly. The only way to counteract this is to have a state that engages, a state that through law goes in and says that we're going to clean this up. We do that by law, and we do that by having welfare systems that ensure that you actually have flexibility and a real freedom of choice. That's what this case is about. I can't see in any of the comments from the minority on the Right and the Advance Party that they're saying we're going to have real freedom of choice. They don't make any suggestions on how to solve this. They say they're against it and they're done with it. This is what the market is supposed to do – or, as they used to say, you can stand there with your hand, and you can even negotiate your own working conditions with the employer. We're against that. We need collective bargaining. We need negotiations and arrangements to ensure that we do not stand alone against the employer, against the system and against the power to achieve a minimum of equality in this country. I believe that here again there is a proposal that shows that the red-green government ensures that people get a real freedom of choice, a flexibility that I demand in the Right. It is this policy that gives freedom of choice. It is this Right Party and the Advance Party should vote once and for all, because it is this which ensures the freedom of the individual to choose his own life, his own order and his own everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e677	The ideology of the Progress Party gives freedom of choice to the family, and that's exactly what this is all about. It is not about whether you are against parental leave or parental leave, but about whether you want to introduce some allowances for the allocation of those weeks or not. That's where the difference lies. I have to say, I was surprised at the representative Gunn Karin Gjul, who talked about it as if the bourgeois parties had had to be dragged after the hair to get such a parental leave we have. Has the representative forgotten that in the last eight years there has been a red-green majority, which has made proposals for the Storting, and the Progress Party has supported all the proposals that have been made on the extension of parental leave, with the exception of the two weeks now? It's almost wrong if we support the government, and it's wrong if we don't support it. The progress party is against the quota itself. We're against regulation. We believe that the parents and the family themselves are able to distribute this, and that's what this is all about: people's ability to adapt their everyday lives to their needs. The Council of State was concerned that this was about economics. Yeah, of course it's about economics, because there's a lot of families who don't have the opportunity to take out these weeks. As the representative of Hofstad Helleland had in mind, there are several examples of private entrepreneurs who are unable to take out these weeks. It is actually the children who lose contact with their parents when neither mother nor father can transfer their weeks to each other, and that is what the Advancement Party is against. The representative Karin Andersen spoke about equal parenthood. The Progress Party fully agrees. We have to get equal parenthood, but it also has to apply after a breakup. When the council says she sees it is important to have the presence of fathers the first year, yes, then the Progress Party fully agrees. But we also see a lot of cases in the judicial system where fathers are on their rights, have had good contact with their children and want to continue to have that contact after a break in life. The law must then be set up after that. The representative, Lene Vågslid, was in on fathers' earnings. Annually, there are about 6 500 self-earning fathers who cannot take out the parental killers because their mother has not earned the right to parental leave and also does not go to work after full-time education after birth. That is the reality, and then the Progress Party would have wished that the money that is being spent today had been spent on giving the fathers who do not have the right of withdrawal, the right of withdrawal. I think we would have seen that several fathers would have been at home with their children if we had invested in autonomous exit rights instead of an increase of two weeks in the parental leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e691	You should listen carefully when the representative Solveig Horne says that this is a fight fathers can bring with the employer themselves. One should also listen carefully when the representative of Hofstad Helleland says that there are limits to politics. This actually illustrates the historical red thread in all the struggles that have been about the rights of workers and the responsibility of society to protect the family, where the right side has always fought against, has always thought that everyone can do the best for themselves, and where the left side – with the centre of Norwegian policy – has had to pull the right side after itself. Now the right-hand side is trying to praise this picture by saying that the situation we have today, with the world's best parental leave, the world's best mother country, that we have the world's best fathers, is something that has come up against a mountain, almost like a coincidence or characterized by political consensus. It's totally wrong. This has been the subject of battle after battles up throughout all years, and the right side has been the one that has slowed down. They are also today, not only in this matter, but also in the view of Norwegian working life in general. We have clear examples of this from the fact that the Right has voted against solidarity, regional protection and transparency. In 2005, the right suggested that it could be possible to impose 13 hours of work without contacting the Labour Inspectorate, and we know that the Right's policy for more temporary jobs and opportunities for more overtime will lead to greater pressure on the family and less opportunities for future planning. This is now also made clear in their proposal to cut down on fathers' opportunities to be at home with their children. It is important to remember that in Europe it is very clear that the political analysis of the right-hand side is totally flawed. Norway has been responsible for our policies of high birth rates, high female participation and high productivity. If we look at southern Europe, the picture is completely different. Young people in southern Europe are reluctant to have children because they have poor chances of combining work and care and because they have unfavourable working hours. This shows that right-wing policies harm the family. This picture can also very well change in Norway. Multiplicity for the Right and Advance Party may be enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e700	It's sometimes an discoverer that you have a very different reality picture. The position describes from the Right and the Advance Party that parental leave today ‘is not to be an instrument in the gender equality struggle, but a welfare asset belonging to the families of children’. It sounds like like it's supposed to be a non-profit, equal world somewhere out there, where everything is joy and vulture, and where men and women share equally on absolutely everything. It's not like that in my world. Throughout history, the Workers' Party, the movement of workers and women in these movements have worked out one great struggle after another. It's about children's health, it's about children's and mothers' homes, it's about women's health, and it's about family health. What we've seen this spring is very interesting. The right has had a national meeting where they have had three important equality issues for debate, and they go in the opposite direction in all three cases – that is, one for which they did not get a majority in their own party. This concerns the abortion law, the cash support and the parental leave. In the South, we are at least equal in Norway. The right-hand proposal would have put gender equality work back in the South for decades. We see that we're some of those who at least take out fetal leave, but we see that it's increasing. Believe me, without any concrete means, that increase would have stopped. We see that the Right Party and the Advance Party are moving towards the trends and the culture that prevails in our reality today. The business community and the LO are satisfied with the tools. Last year, during the previous court settlement, Arne Bakke, in the Joint League, proposed that fathers be allowed to be paid parental leave to be at home with their children when they were born. The right-hand side wouldn't have it like that. They don't want it like that, they want you to choose freely. It's the exact same whole equality report that Hege Skeie is full of: nothing happens by itself. One has to have concrete tools to create change. It's a little strange, I mean, when the Right is so concerned that people are going to be at work. The right has attacked the Working Party in several rounds because we are trailers of passive performances. Is there anything more passive than increasing the cash support and making sure that women return to the kitchen bench, yes, I do not know. I have read examples of employers offering fathers NOK 50 000 to be at work instead of taking out fetal leave. That's what we're fighting. We want fathers to be more able to have a good relationship with their children and to give them that chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e711	Now the debate is coming to an end. I thought it was very good to see that the Progress Party and the Right are against the right that father has today for parental leave. I take Solvency Horne seriously when she says she agrees that it is important to have an equal parent. Then I have some questions for the Progress Party. It might be a cliché and a very useful sentence, but it's now very small that just shows up on its own. There are, of course, some results in a society that comes from choice of ways and policies. So Solvency Horne says she's busy with equality after a break in life. Then I want to ask the representative not, just as the Council of State said, that it must be related to what actions and gender equality policies are leading before the breakup of life. The progress party often says that there is a consensus in this, but it doesn't necessarily help to agree that one should build a house when one doesn't have hammers, nails, materials or anything, but only agrees that the house is going up. So I would like to invite the Progress Party and the Right to be more specific about what kind of action they think we need to take politically in order to get a more equal parenthood. Because we all have examples in the world that it doesn't come of itself. This debate is very classic and typical and shows really very important distinctions between the Right Party and the Progress Party and the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. I hope this isn't the last time we debate this, even if we say that now and then we've done it so many times. This debate is very important, and the elections to the autumn are a policy option when it comes to raising the status of fathers as carers and still leave them with the important right to be home with their young, or simply to privatize and liquidate the whole equality policy and leave it up to each and every one to fight their fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e720	You can be for equal parenthood, but against an allowance, and that's what this case is about. In the proposal that is now from the government, the family itself is like a unit and the children who become the losers. Because when the government is not prepared to have a flexible system that allows one party to take over the weeks of the other party, the children are losing out on it. If the child does not have kindergarten space, the child loses space on it. That's what's been the most important argument against a feather quota. There is no secret that the Progress Party is against all quotas. We are opposed to quotas both in gender and in politics, because we believe it is more discriminatory. There's the differences, that's the way it is, and that's how it's going to be. Then the representative Lene Vågslid had a question for the Progress Party when it was about equal parenthood and in the event of a breakup. Now it is well that the representative Stokkan-Grande once was a member of a human panel, where it was also found that it was important to ensure the rights of fathers after a break in life. The party of progress is the only party that has been clear and clear and has also proposed that it should be automatic in sharing care in the event of a breakup of life. The progressing party believes that it could have prevented quite a number of conflicts if it was a law that said that the rights of father and mother were equal in the event of a breakup of life. It is a tool for the Progress Party to have, with regard to the rights of fathers in the event of a break in life, automatic sharing of care.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e729	As Minister of Children, I must say that I think it has been mildly said specifically, very unfortunate and completely wrong to go in the direction that the representative of the Progress Party has now outlined. You don't want to facilitate equal parenthood in your first year of life, which is important to the extent to which you follow the child and become acquainted with the child. Then you also have to resort to increased cash support, at least you have to continue the cash support, and I expect that you will then go back to giving it even up to the age of two – up to three years. We know that there are almost only women who receive it, and then one also reinforces a gender-based parenthood where it is the women who are primarily caregivers, while men focus more on jobs. But when you get into a breakup, there's equality that applies, regardless of what's best for the child, and regardless of who the child knows and is safe from. No, then you have to divide evenly. It is simply not a matter of access, and at least it is not a matter of childish competence to do it that way. I want to ask you to go through your argument and decide which bone you really want to stand on. I am absolutely sure that it is important, both from a gender perspective and from a child's perspective, to facilitate an equal parenthood. Then one cannot avoid securing the balance of the parental leave – to ensure that fathers have the opportunity to be present – and then one must also ask how the cash support works in this system, whether it contributes to cementing and consolidating an inequality between mothers and fathers that makes the children not as familiar with their fathers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e734	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e748	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to three lines with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e757	Let me start my post by noting that there is a broad consensus in this setting. A total accumulation minus the Progress Party is behind the attitude and view on how to understand Norwegian Culture Councils and the various instruction authorities. We recall the establishment and development of the Culture Council to respect the so-called arm's length distance principle and to ensure that opportunities and spaces for artistic work are created unaffected by political authorities and other interests. The legislation has been somewhat unclear at this point, and therefore there is a need to clarify the Council's professional autonomy in the form of law. The legislative proposal is based on the Culture Council, as it is today, without proposing far-reaching changes. The Culture Council shall continue to be a governmental executive body with the whole country as a whole, divided into two entities: a college of Councils and an administration. The purpose of the new legislation is to clarify the technical independence of the Council and to clarify the division of responsibilities between the Council and the political level. The establishment of the autonomy of the College of Councils in allocation cases is done by limiting the powers of instruction of the political and general authorities. This means that the exercise of artistic and cultural discretion in allocating funds in the individual allocation case is left to the Council. The majority retains its authorization authority, even if the authorising authority is limited in the decision on individual cases. It follows from the Constitution § 75 d that the Stortinget grants funds for government expenditure. The budget adopts the annual allocation of the Norwegian Cultural Fund and other provisions made available by the Council of Culture and is free to include in the State budget also those not included in the draft budget of the Government. The size allows funds as framework appropriations, but both the Storting and the Ministry will be able to lead at the overall level. The necessary political governance has been ensured by legislative authority, autho­risation authority and command authority at the overall level. So for the composition of the Council: the number of members of the Council has been determined on the grounds that the Council should not be too large, while at the same time covering artistic and cultural competences in key areas. In addition, geographical dissemination and other representativeness such as gender, age and cultural diversity are taken into account. The appointment of the Board of Governors shall be rolling, so that half of the members and alternates are appointed every two years. There should be possibilities for re-nomination, but it should be limited to one new four-year period. This will safeguard all the above-mentioned considerations and, at the same time, prevent a particular artistic and cultural viewpoint from taking place. Then there's a great deal of awareness in the attitude about the consideration of geographic distribution. Geographical dissemination shall be an overall consideration of the activities of the Council of Culture and shall therefore also be one of the criteria for the allocation of grants. There may be different causes of bias. One point we point out from the Committee is that the Culture Council is responsible for ensuring that all applicants concerned across the country receive good application information and guidance that can ensure that this is the case. We also see that there are great variations in the number of applications coming from the different states. Therefore, the majority, consisting of the Workers’ Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People’s Party, ask the Government to consider various measures that can help the Culture Council to play a more active role in ensuring better geographical distribution, and also whether the Culture Council is to provide development funds to contribute to areas of poor application through cooperation with regional authorities and information work against individual applicants. The majority also believe that the Cultural Council should see more clearly that the view of culture as well as the conditions that must be in place to succeed in different offers may vary from state to state. Variations in Norwegian cultural history around the country are examples of this. The majority therefore believe that the activities of the Culture Council should reflect the diversity of artistic and cultural expressions. The majority refer to the complaint mechanism, that it is possible to appeal against decisions, but also that a justification should be provided for any refusal, and that maximum transparency should be ensured around the assessments of the Culture Council. With this we ensure that the professional autonomy of the Culture Council is made clear, while ensuring the overall authority of the Storting. In addition, we contribute to greater transparency, better information and better geographical distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e780	It may not come as a surprise that the Progress Party does not support this matter. It's because the Progress Party wants a completely different model from today's model in the Council of Culture. The Government itself states that, over the years, there has been a significant delegation of tasks from the Ministry and that new tasks have been assigned to it, while the professional independence of the Council of Culture and the authority to instruct the Council have not been sufficiently clarified in the applicable legislation. These are the views that the Progress Party has been particularly concerned with regarding the Council of Culture, and we are basically positive that we are getting those changes in place from the point of view of having a model with a Council of Culture. However, I feel the need to make the points of view of the Advance Party visible in the matter. It is true that the Progress Party wants a different device and therefore we also promoted a proposal for a representative on the restructuring of the Cultural Council which was being discussed last year. It is a model that stimulates innovation, new art and culture projects as a result of a turn from government pay and guarantee income towards seed mentality and start-up incentives. In recent years, the Cultural Council has gained increased power and influence over Norwegian cultural life, and while responsibility has increased, the number of Council members has decreased. As members are appointed by the Ministry of Culture, there can be the impression of a closeness between politics and culture that is negative in terms of the need for a free and unhindered cultural life. The consequences of the change in recent years are that an increasing proportion of the country’s funds are managed by a handful of people who also have very close links with some parts of Norwegian cultural life. The Progress Party believes that there is reason to ask questions about the democratic aspect of the development of the Cultural Council. This impression is reinforced by the lack of transparency of the approvals and refusals granted by the Council. The Progress Party therefore believes that it would be in the interest of culture to take action to ensure that there is less power, both resource and definition, to the Council of Culture and the Ministry of Culture. One of the main problems with today's funding model is that too much power is assigned to a small group of people appointed by the management of the department. This means that culture is put in a context that does not necessarily benefit either the individual artist or the cultural life as a whole. The Progress Party considers that the tasks which do not have direct national interests should, as far as possible, be assigned to the municipalities. This will ensure that public cultural resources are distributed more widely and better, in terms of both geography, different genres of art and different actors. If artificial resources are decentralized, the effect of individual municipal governments on their own cultural talents will be greater. Such a process of democracy will bring culture closer to the people. In addition, it will stimulate local business to facilitate public–private cooperation, which will benefit cultural life as a whole. It will therefore be in the interest of culture to change the financing structure in a way that provides for decentralisation, seed mentality and incentives that stimulate private participation. The Progress Party believes that one must see that the policy under the current government is clearly moving towards increased power concentration around central agencies in Oslo. The most important thing here is the development of the Norwegian Cultural Council, which is still taking on new tasks, while at the same time reducing the number of members of the Council through regulatory changes and providing these considerably expanded functions. The party of progress has on many occasions pointed out the principle of concern in this regard. The Progress Party also believes that the state's allocation policy through the Norwegian Cultural Council should be subject to critical review, that a new policy course is necessary in order to bring about a spread of power and greater diversity. A dynamic cultural life is achieved through a broad range of political action, where the changes in the Norwegian Cultural Council can be one of them. An alternative cultural policy must be aimed at promoting Norwegian cultural life by disseminating decisions geographically and organisationally. In addition, tax incentives and targeted efforts to mobilise private actors and private funds should contribute to providing cultural life with more sources of funding and more support. A broad review of the national channels for the allocation of funds to cultural life is necessary with a view to clearer clean-up of tasks and the dissemination of functions. One must also consider the importance of not contributing to the red tape and inefficient use of funds. In this context, I would like to promote the proposals of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e821	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e824	This is, of course, a matter which is quite limited to providing for the responsibilities and reporting conditions that have long been in force in the Norwegian Cultural Council. The right does not see this matter as an invitation to address a wide-ranging debate on the composition of the Culture Council or an evaluation of the Culture Council as such. We'd rather come back to that in later cases where it might be the subject. We agree with the changes proposed, and we also agree with the considerations made in relation to the signals that should be given to the Council of Culture in terms of geography, taking into account local conditions and that kind of consideration. I guess these are pretty obvious things that I trust the members of the Culture Council will also be able to do for themselves. Otherwise, the Right has been concerned with a new political course that is about spreading power in another way, unlike what we have seen in this period of government, as we have experienced a rather systematic collection and power around central institutions, preferably in Oslo. The Culture Council is one example of this, in which, through a new appointment scheme, we were given a firmer structure with members who have a professional relationship, thereby making themselves more applicable to the proceedings themselves than they did before, and where the Culture Council has also been given new tasks. On the right, one should rather be looking for alternative possibilities to create counterpowers to the power structure of the Council of Culture. We are pleased to note the mentoring system that is now proposed as part of the scope of the Culture Council. We think that is a great measure, but perhaps it is just an example of a measure that did not necessarily have to be placed in the Council of Culture, but which could preferably have been added to other bodies. We in the Right could imagine, in addition, that we should build up other bodies systematically, in order to create this diversity that we think is necessary. In that context, I think there is also a need not only to signal breadth in terms of geography and considerations that the Culture Council is going to take into account. We also believe that real diversity should include a diversity of sources of funding, and not least a diversity of recruitment of decision-makers. The members of the Culture Council today are mostly people with an artistic background – active artists – and are often also appointed by the artists’ organisations. We believe that there is a broad range of competences in this field, which relate to critics, producers, curators – i.e. to a larger impact field within the field of artistic work, which it will also be important to bring in. However, this is in itself a very concrete, narrow-minded case, which relates to the provision of responsibilities and the arm's length-distance principle, which in itself has been practised for a long time already, and which the Right fully agrees with. So that's how we end up with the proposition, as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e839	The centre party believes it is important that we now get a law on Norwegian Culture Council, as the old legislation – as has been said – is not entirely adapted to today's activities. In this context, it is important to further clarify the Council's professional independence and clarify the division of responsibilities between the Culture Council and the political level. The Culture Council was established and developed in its time – as has also been said – to observe the so-called arm's length distance principle, and to ensure that artistic work could be carried out without being governed by political and other interests. It's not about major changes in this bill regarding how the Cultural Council operates today, and that's because today's Cultural Council mainly works very well. We in the Centre Party are pleased that the necessary political governance has been ensured through legislation, allocation and command at the overall level of the new law. For the Central Party, it is of course important that the Cultural Council has the whole country as its scope, and that we have a good dissemination of the activities, both geographically and between singers. In recent years we have had a significant cultural investment in the regions – both Kristiansand, Stavanger and other regional centres have built beautiful and very expensive cultural buildings. It is good that culture also flourishes outside the capital region. We appreciate that. But it is not enough for the Centre Party to bet in the regional centres. We want cultural activities across the country. And it shouldn't be difficult, when we see what cultural forces pop up beyond the whole country. It's absolutely amazing to witness to all culturalists who appear almost everywhere. We see this through talent competitions like ‘Idol’, ‘Norwegian Talents’, ‘Melodi Grand Prix Junior’ and many others — even though it may be a small part of the culture. There's no way how many talents show up. It's hard, very happy that the systematic investment in cultural schools in the last couple of decades really seems this way. I know the father of one of the members of a well-known Norwegian band. He says that the son would never get where he is without the cultural school, or the music school, as it was at the time, because in their family they are not particularly musical. They are not musicians, and have not been able to inspire and guide the kids to a musical career. That's why what's happening around the country is absolutely amazing – and notice where the young talents come from. They come from the countryside as they do from the cities. It seems that the cultural schools are at least as good out in the countryside as in the city – so the culture of grassroots flourishes all over the country. We want the Culture Council to contribute to its full flowering in more places than today. We therefore want more measures that contribute to even better geographical dissemination and believe that the Council of Culture should have means of development in order to help increase the amount of applications in areas where there are currently few applications. We also believe that the focus should be on local cultural history and traditions in folk music in particular, but also folk dance and other singers. It is important to capture different local cultural variations, thereby preserving, documenting and developing such cultural heritage to the delight of our generation, and not least the generations that come after us. Today, new and exciting cultural expressions are also being developed in the field of tension between old traditions, new forms of culture and impulses from other countries, to which the Cultural Council should definitely also focus. This law is important, as I said at the outset, in order to clarify and clarify the division of responsibilities between the Council and the granting authorities. As I also said, it is important for us in the Central Party to ensure that the resources of the Council of Culture are used throughout the country, and that our cultural heritage – including the local traditions – should be preserved, but also raised to new and modern cultural expressions in the future. We believe that this is well taken care of by the new law on Norwegian Cultural Councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e858	The Christian People's Party is pleased that today we have a law on Norwegian Cultural Councils, and that the legislation we have had for almost 40 years and gradually further developed is now being updated in a law. It also clarifies the basic organisational legislation on the Council of Culture and clarifies, not least, the professional autonomy of the College of Council. We have also contributed through the budgets we have dealt with during this period to clarify the division of labour between political authorities, the ministry and the Council of Culture. Having said that, I also think it's important at this crossroads to establish that the intersection and the boundary between artistic assessments, judgement and politics, is not always crystal clear. I think we should also have it with us when we put this law in place. The discussion of how we distribute money, allocation authority and power between groupings in society, between level of governance and regions of cultural policy, is not over – it must and must continue, because it is important for a living cultural policy and a living democracy. Nevertheless, it is important that we have a good code at the bottom, which clarifies a clear division of responsibilities, and which clarifies the Council's professional autonomy in the form of law. Because of its independence, the Council will have the highest overall responsibility for the allocation of cultural funds as well as the allocation of other State grants to the Council. The Christian People's Party sees it as an advantage and a strength. Then there are several interesting issues here, both from the representative Thommess from the Right and from the case-rapporteur, which I think is important that we follow up to further develop the Norwegian Cultural Council and the interaction between the Norwegian Cultural Council, the Ministry, political authorities and Norwegian cultural life. That process is going on, the discussions are going to continue, but today we are doing an important job of putting in place a cornerstone of an important interplay which, hopefully, will contribute to the continued strengthening of Norwegian cultural life through an active cultural policy over the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e871	Artistic expressions strengthen our ability to see new contexts and to shape visions and new forms of understanding. Art must be free to serve these purposes – free in the sense that the exercise of art is independent of the political ideas of the authorities, of clever moral standards, of religious beliefs or of other special interests. The institutional framework must also be designed in such a way as to create the right conditions for such freedom. When we now present a proposal for a law on Norwegian Cultural Councils, it has therefore been particularly important for us to clarify and clarify the academic autonomy of the Council College. The principle of arm's length is central to cultural policy, and it is important that this is clearly formulated in the Supreme Code of the Council of Culture. I'm pleased with the broad plural that supports this now here at Stortinget. The aim of the legislative proposal is to update and clarify the basic organisational legislation of the Council of Culture and to clarify and clarify the academic autonomy of the College of Council. The legislative proposal is based on today's situation. The Norwegian Cultural Council shall continue to be a governmental administrative body with the whole country as a whole. It's divided into two units: a college of councils and an administration. The administration is subject to the authority's authority to instruct in its health. Tasks that are added to the administration will therefore remain under the authority of the authorities. When the Council College was established in 1965, it was precisely to keep the arm's length distance principle. In other words, both intention and practice have been very independent from the very beginning of the Council College, but it has not been clearly formulated in a legislative framework. Now we suggest that it be legalized. The arm's length distance principle requires decisions to be taken by a body with the necessary professional competence. Political authorities shall not govern the content of art and culture, but political authorities shall facilitate the development of art and culture through overriding objectives and priorities, infrastructure and financial support. By delimiting the authority of instruction over the Council, we guarantee professional independence and freedom. Paragraph 5, which limits the powers of instruction of the Council, is therefore central to the legislative proposal. General instructions on legal understanding, legal practices and proceedings may, of course, still be given. The limitation in the powers of instruction will apply to appeals submitted to the College of Councils. It will primarily refer to allocations from the Culture Fund. The execution of artistic and cultural discretion in the distribution of funds is left to the Council. The legislative proposal does not specify any other proposal than that of the Culture Fund, which is to be delegated to the Council College. What should be added to the College of Councils and thus be an exception to the authority of instruction may be determined on an ongoing basis by political authorities. For the sake of order, we are now legislating what is established practice. It has not been in the form of law before, but it does not mean that one has relied on this division of labour in previous ways. The proposed minor adjustments include: Council members can only be renamed once. This will be both the consideration of continuity and the need for renewal. We also confirm in the legal text § 2 that the Cultural Council has the whole country as a working area, and also write in the preliminary work – and clarify several times – that it is an objective to bring cultural life forward in all parts of the country. In the debate, I have noted the views of the Right on the function of the Council of Culture. I'm glad they're agreeing to this law, but they also have some considerations about how they might think this was arranged. It would have been useful to rightfully reflect a little more obligingly about how one perceives that one will move out a part of what is currently assigned to the Cultural Council, to regional institutions or regional authorities, where the running institutions will necessarily have to be closer to those who ask for help, and that one then risks putting the principle of arm's length distance at risk. At least it would have been interesting to right what the dilemma the representative Thommes sees in such manoeuvres. Then it is interesting to note that culture is a civil issue, where the Progress Party is entirely on the side of the other bourgeois parties – or the non-socialist parties – think. I think it's useful for cultural life too to notice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e903	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e907	I took note of the preliminary considerations of the Councils of Cultural States on the importance of the freedom of art. We share that view, of course. But this freedom we have at least in other contexts had a slightly different view of the framework for. After all, the government has run a line of overall leadership in terms of integration, equality, international solidarity. My questions to the Council of State are: How does she view this in the future in relation to the Norwegian Cultural Council? Will that change, the clarification, we are now making of the arm's length distance principle, do something about that kind of leadership, or does she think that the ministry will continue to provide such guidance – and in that case how?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e914	What I think we are doing today is we are legislating what has been the established practice between political authorities and the Council of Culture. I think it's important that we legislate. The principle of arm's length distance is also nice to say in this hall. I imagine that the practice will continue as he is established. It means that it's natural that a political leader gives some leadership, but it also means that we stay far away from the treatment of the individual case, as we've done before, and the way we're going to continue in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e919	I would like to clarify what'some superiors' mean. What does the Council of State think about that? Is that – what should I say – in parallel with how we see it in the allocation letters of the major institutions? Is that the kind of leadership she thinks she's going to continue? In that case, it is not surprising, but good to note. That you don't want to get involved in the specific proceedings is now, but when you talk about the freedom of art, it means in the world of the Council of State a freedom under at least some framework and some guidelines.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e924	I am well aware that in practice, the representative is Thommessen and I have some information about the freedom of art. There is no difference in reality between his understanding and my understanding of this. We have also confirmed this in previous debates. It has been pointed out that under the rule of right -wing governments as well, cultural ministers have given leadership in their letters of resignation. One example, which we discussed earlier, was a letter of introduction that went to Sogn and Fjordane Theatre about what kind of view you should have. There's one of several examples that our understanding here is consistent, that it must be given some superior political leadership, but that one still stays away from the most detailed leadership. The fact that there are political authorities that are ambitious on behalf of cultural life also means that one must be able to raise cultural life in this way by being ambitious, for example. through letters of introduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e929	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e934	I'm not going to stretch this unnecessarily far, but I got a concrete challenge, which told me that the Council of State clearly believes that when I talk about the spread of power, as I did in the post I had first, it's about the regionalisation of decision making. She probably did from a proposal that was discussed in the book Civita published before Christmas. There was the theme of regionalisation. So now it's not like that book represents the Right Cultural Policy. I think more of it as an input to good debates. We're concerned with regional investment, but that's out in the regions, not a regionalisation of funds. I think it's a bad idea to break up the different posts in the Cultural Council and add them out to the regions. I think that's a bad idea, among other things. From the perspective that the Council of State drew up, i.e. who are decision-makers and who are close to applicants, but also from the point of view that there are limited resources on the individual items that make it possible to divide them in such a way, the scope of action within each item will be reduced. I think that would be negative in relation to the flexibility that the Council wants. So the Council of State also found that there is a distance between the Advancement Party and the Right in the case of the Council of Culture, and that is it. But I think it's interesting to notice that the Progress Party very far on the way is agreeing on the Right's starting point when it comes to power structures and the exercise of power. I have also noticed that the Progress Party has moved a good deal from one-sided just to want to shut down the Cultural Council and remove it, to now actually propose other structures around this. So yes, the distance is great in the practical, but in the thinking it might not be so great anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e946	I thank the representative Thommess for so happy to accept the challenge that I gave him in my post. It may be – and I have to say that I am a little heavy on it – but I understand that the article was essentially about what the representative Thommessen was not going to do, and he took a distance from what is in the pamphlet of Civita in this area. He also pointed out that there is a certain coincidence between the Right Mining and the Progress Party I believe, but I challenge the representative Thommess to reflect on the commitment to what these values that he uses about the spread of power involve in practice. It would be useful for the right-wing representative Thommes to reflect on it. I understand that he has considered his position on these things. It would have been useful to get them up on the table.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e953	The President may have to draw attention to the fact that the time for reflection under the rules of the Storting is limited to 1 minute. Then the representative will have Thommess take it as a challenge. Here you go!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e956	Then I would like to refer to my article in the Contemporary, possibly from the current issue – perhaps from the previous issue. There you'll be able to get a 20-30-page reflection on what this is all about. We have as our starting point – and this is quite concrete – that we want to build up other bodies independently of the Council of Culture that will be able to represent other decision-makers. Then we're talking about Arts & Business and Norwegian public development, which is what kind of agencies think we can do more tasks on behalf of the public than today. I have elaborated on this in the article to which I refer on this occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e961	I have read the contemporary article to the representative Thommess with great interest. With all due respect, I have rarely seen so many transactions in value distributed on so many pages with so little concreteization. But out of respect for Storting's further debate, Thommessen and I can continue that debate elsewhere, for example. in the Common Era.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e966	Thank the President for that. The scheduled speaking time does not allow for more articles. The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e980	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e989	This matter too could be suitable for debate in the past, so I can already invite and challenge the author of the motion for a resolution to that effect. Proposal maker Jan Arild Ellingsen, of the Progress Party, has proposed to ban visible religious or political symbols as part of the Defence uniforms. In the proposal, he refers to Norway's Christian-Humanist heritage. There is also a concept in a similar debate used by the Minister of Culture, who just left the Chamber, in connection with the use of religious symbols in the police, and that the main task of the defence is to protect the sovereignty of the country. Thus, the proposer believes that the defence should represent value neutrality and not religion, politics or ideology, and that this neutrality should be threatened or even eliminated if visible religious or political symbols should be accepted in the Defence uniforms. In that context, it is worth pointing out, I think, that the current practice of the defence has been allowing the use of religious symbols for decades, and that it is enshrined in the Defence Uniform Regulations. As far as I am aware, this has not represented any problem in the defence, on the contrary, my experience with the Defense is that they are very concerned about reflecting the diversity of the population of Norway and providing for a good recruitment of Norwegians with a migrant or minority background. The Norwegian defence is based on the duty of protection. This means that it is particularly important that the defence provides both space for the diversity of the Norwegian population and that there should be no doubt that ethnic religious and cultural backgrounds should have nothing to say about one's participation in the defence of the country, One may have many different opinions in the debate on uniform police regulations, and it is difficult to get out of it when we are going to discuss this proposal. But the very fact that the defence is our external defence – and as the Defense itself says, it is a defense for everything we are – is limited to how much I believe that the rather marginal debate on, for example, is. The use of hijab in the police has something to say for this debate. It is true that parts of the Defense have limited police authorities, such as the Coast Guard, the GSV and the Garden, but the main picture is that the police monopoly of power towards their own people means that the debate on religious symbols in the police is not particularly transferable to a debate on uniform rules in the Defence – especially given that the Defence itself seems to balance these different considerations in a good and unproblematic way. I believe that it is a strength for the Defence, which is the strongest and most extreme instrument of Norwegian democracy, that the organisation can maintain and reflect the diversity of religions and identities found in the Norwegian people. I am absolutely convinced that it strengthens cohesion both in Norway and in the Defence – it does not weaken it. That is my main objection to this proposal. It seems to be based on an assumption that the defense in some way appears to be less Norwegian or less united if it is visible on the garment or the headgear of the individual soldier, that he or she is Jewish or Muslim. I don't believe in that. When Muslim Mohammed Abdullaoue cuts goals for Norway – in a completely different discipline than the Defense – it is with the same Norwegian flag on the chest as Christian players. That the Nordics from different backgrounds and religious communities are ready to sacrifice life and health for the country's security is just something we should be proud of. It's a force, and it's something the Defense itself thinks is a strength. That is why I and the majority of the committee believe that the proposal is an answer to a problem that is not real, and it is also the majority's position that document 8:37 S is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1006	This matter is about our ability to think rationally and rationally. Are we going to be value neutral and relate to what it means to represent the community and the state of Norway, or are we going to bow to the fear of hurting someone because they have a religious or political conviction? The background to the proposal to prohibit visible religious or political symbols as part of Defence uniforms is about the principle of equality. The principle of equality is the principle that equal cases should be treated equally to the extent that there are no relevant grounds for discrimination. When you step into the defense, you're by definition equal. You have to do a service and do it on equal terms and under equal terms. But today's uniform regulations, which allow some to wear visible religious or political symbols as part of the uniform, make this image of equality fade. Everyone sitting in this room knows that if someone with sympathy we're not followers of, it'd become ramask-rich, would have asserted his right to bear visible political symbols. What is today considered to be non-disputable religious symbols in the future can be completely different from today's symbols. Today's non-disputable religious symbols were not indisputable just a few decades ago. In other words, it might be worth thinking about what signals we're sending out by deviating the neutrality of the power that represents the nation of Norway. The defence is an arena to demonstrate its connection with the nation of Norway with its uniformation. Then it is crucial for society's perception of the uniform that it expresses political and religious neutrality. Or do you think that it should be opened up to clearly flagging one's opposition to socialism and its affiliation to civil policy, depending on which government governs the country? Of course we can't have it like this. The proposal under consideration here today should be supported, because this is not a wish to exclude anyone. It's not about it, but it's about showing the community that's in it to wear a uniform, the value neutrality it's supposed to be wearing a uniform, and the basic national connection it's supposed to be wearing a uniform. When you wear a military uniform, you do not represent your political or religious beliefs. They represent the state of Norway, not Islam, not Judaism, not socialism or capitalism. It is amazing to see the contradiction in the debate line to those who oppose this proposal when they argue on the basis of individual rights, while at the same time highlighting the community and its importance in all other contexts. When you're part of the defense, you're just part of a community, and then it's very strange that you have to sacrifice this very community in fear of being intolerant. It's an argument that doesn't hold. We know that there has been a similar debate on the use of hijab for the police uniform. Then it is worth pointing out to the Council of State Tajik, who has determined that hijab does not become part of the police uniform in the foreseeable future. If this is taken into account, it is obvious that this must also apply to the uniforms of the defence, and other uniforms for that matter. Police uniform regulations do not allow for visible religious symbols or garments. That's the way it has to be in Defense. I would like to refer to what is stated in the Defence Uniform Regulations, § 2.3: ‘The defence uniforms shall be worn and treated with respect. The uniform has a long tradition, it provides protection both nationally and internationally in war and peace, and it gives authority. A military uniform gives the wearer an official status, and through the uniform it represents its defence branch in our defense and in some situations also our country outwards. The wearing of uniform therefore entails an obligation as regards the appearance of the uniform as well as the personal attitude and behaviour of the wearer.’» Furthermore, Section 2.15 on uniform uniform suits states: ‘As a general rule, uniform suits shall be sought for all with the same or equivalent working conditions at the department/station/ship. In the case of formal statements, the suit shall be uniform’. In view of this, and the fact that the uniform of the defense, in the same way as the uniforms of the police, is an expression of representing the power apparatus of the authorities, it is natural that a ban should be introduced in line with this proposal. All citizens should know that the defence is neutral and provides protection for the values enshrined in national and international conventions and rights. Either the defence's power and presence take place in Norway or abroad, Norwegian soldiers shall be perceived as unhidden representatives of the Norwegian State. That is why it is natural to follow the proposals of the Progress Party on this matter, and we are very pleased that the Right does just that. I'm addressing the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1036	The representative Tom Staahle has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1039	The right is pleased that the Progress Party is pleased that we support the proposal, and therefore there should perhaps be no need for any further debate on the matter in the Community as the body that will continue to debate the issue of disagreement. But we therefore support the proposal of the Progress Party and believe that the issue has clear common features with similar discussions about the use of symbols in the police and judicial system. The strange thing is maybe that here the majority concludes quite differently in a case that has very clear parallels. So the uniform with the Norwegian flag on the chest is supposed to symbolize political, religious and ideological neutrality. Everyone agrees that recruiting people from different religions and communities is positive, but this has nothing to do with the concept of authorisation and the use of political symbols on a uniform. The comparison with playing on the Norwegian football team or taking part in a sharp fight may not be entirely relevant in this context, but we might get back to that. This is not about Norway being a multicultural society. It is not about excluding anyone from the duty of protection, and the proposal does not conflict with any of these principles. On the other hand, the majority are in conflict with and construct differences in practice with regard to current police and judicial practices. It would have been neat to have the same principle for all parts of the State apparatus exercising authority on behalf of the State. The guiding principle is that in uniform represents a state, not faith, not political direction, nor a particular ideology. Some of the underlying issues in the debate are that some people may feel discriminated against. Yes, in that case all religious directions apply. So everyone has to be treated the same. Finally, the reference in the letter of reply from the Council of State to the Feltprest Corps, which in the international law of war is defined as non-controversial: this is a rather sought and not relevant comparison. The Field Priest Corps has historically been an exception clearly defined in custom, and is defined in the international law of war. That is why we support the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1052	Finally, I would like to say that he can be happy if the debates continue in the past and he is not referred to the past. At least it has to be a lot worse. I am sure that if we searched the web – I have not done so, but if we did so – after the terms «religious headgear» or «religious symbols», I am quite sure that we had got a lot of hits. This is a matter that engages violently. Therefore, I would like to begin by referring to a debate in Akershu County yesterday on the use of lucky headgear in the secondary schools in Akershus. There has been one thing where there has been a lot of commitment – many have participated in that debate over a long time. Yesterday’s debate also showed that these issues do not necessarily follow common party blocks. In Akershu County, it was concluded that all the parties voted in favour of a ban on lucky headgear in classrooms and in a teaching situation — i.e. the decision was taken by 42 votes to 1 with the rapporteur from the Right voting against such a ban. There is respect for such a vote, sail if I disagree with the county rapporteur. Then it was also adopted in the district of Akershus a ban on lucky headgear in the school area, not just in the classroom. It was a more difficult debate, where the county divided. Those who voted in favour of such a general ban in the whole area of the school were the Right – minus the County rapporteur – the Progress Party, the Centre Party and the SV, while those who voted against such a ban were the Workers' Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. This is an example of the difficulty of these cases, and there are often arguments and arguments against them. On the one hand, we might say normatively that it's problematic with headgear and symbols. On the other hand, we want a school and a community for everyone. So over to the Defense and Religious Symbols: The Right and Advance Party say in the vote that the debate on symbols in the Defense has a common feature with similar discussions about the use of such symbols in the police and the judiciary, and we have heard both Tom Staahle and Ivar Kristiansen talk about the police today. Yes, I'm going to admit that there are certainly similarities, but the differences are larger. Because the police can, as the only one, use power over civilians. In addition, no one has to work in the police, it's voluntary to apply to the police. I fully agree with those who say that we should not have religious symbols or allow special headgear in the police. But with the defense, it's different, because the defense is based on the duty of protection. And now more parties want to expand the protection obligation. There have been debates at the national meeting in many parties, and I have never applauded a decision taken at the National Meeting of the Right, but I did that on Sunday – very well. Right and many other batches have decided that they are now subject to a duty of protection for all. So when we have a duty to protect – and we need to extend it even – we cannot exclude people. Defence and protection must reflect Norway and the diversity we have culturally, ethnically and religiously. We must have a uniform regulation that takes more account. We must take care of the duty of protection, recruitment and diversity. But at the same time, of course, it must be compatible with the activities of the defence and compatible with the service of the individual, and it must be safe. There is clearly a difference between a welfare assistant and a storm soldier in the armored battalion, whether it is at all possible to wear an alternative headgear. This has defended good rules for. This is where the Defendant finds solutions. It works well the way it is today. We should not make a problem out of something that is not a problem. That is why we are not going to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1071	Norway has a duty to protect all men — so far. The legitimacy of the defence benefits from this duty of protection. The obligation to protect is an important tool for the recruitment of the defence. And when there is a general duty to protect, it should be such that no one should be excluded from this service as a result of their belief or religious practice. This is a wish we have from the political side. There is also something the defense itself places on. The defence considers it important for several reasons to reflect the diversity of people of Norwegian society with different cultural, ethnic and religious backgrounds. In short, the Defense believes that differences in religious affiliation are a strength for the Defence Organisation. At the same time, it is a basic rule that Norwegian soldiers, as well as other countries’ military forces, carry a uniform in the service that conforms to a defined uniform regulation. This is an incorporated international principle. This is important for example: in order to be able to identify clearly those who are part of the country's armed forces and to be empowered, if necessary, to use armed force on its behalf to carry out its mission. The role of defence vis-à-vis external enemies, as seen, has significant similarities with the role of the police vis-à-vis their own citizens. At the same time, there is a clear difference between the tasks and the recruitment system. The proposal of the Progress Party is to ban visible religious or political symbols as part of the Defence uniforms. I understand the intention behind the proposal. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we agree with the importance that the defence should be presented impartially and exclusively as a representative of the Norwegian State by means of a unique uniform regulation. The uniform shall not express different political, religious or ethnic interests. At the same time, we believe that the uniform regulation – in accordance with international and Norwegian law – should seek to safeguard the rights and integrity of individuals within the framework set by the military service. That is why we believe from the Christian People's Party that the defence must still have the opportunity to design the uniform regulations so that it allows access to minor modifications of the suit. It is a prerequisite that these minor modifications must be compatible with the nature of the service and the safety and health of personnel. The current rules of defence therefore mean that the right of soldiers to wear certain headgear may be withdrawn for security reasons, such as: when wearing personal safety equipment as a protective mask and under special weather conditions. The current rules thus seek to take account of the integrity of the individual, within the limits of the nature of the service and the safety and health of personnel. The practical experience of the Defence Agency with its current regulations indicates that it is working well and without any particular practical problems. I haven't heard that there has been a very strong desire from the Defense to change these rules. I guess it's here as in other areas: what works well doesn't have to be changed. In the Christian People's Party, we believe that the development of the uniform rules of defence still needs to be able to balance more considerations. Therefore, we will not support an absolute prohibition decision as promoted in Document 8:37 S. The uniform rules of today's defence should be maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1094	Defence has worked for many years on issues related to diversity, inclusion and religious symbols. I am concerned that all defence personnel should have equal opportunities to exercise faith and outlook on life. I am therefore pleased that the majority of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee supports the defence chief's clarifications in the Defence Uniform Rules. Religious symbols in Defense are nothing new. It's been allowed and practiced for decades, as it's been said here. The first Norwegian soldier to use the turban served as early as 1989. In practice, Hijab has been in use since the mid-2000s. And the field priests carry the cross on the right side of their uniform jacket. On 1 July 2012, the Defence Manager gave details of how the symbols can be used in order to obtain a level playing field. This does not imply any changes in principle. The assumption is that the symbols are used in such a way as to be compatible with the content of the service, operational considerations and safety provisions, as the majority of the Committee also stresses in its decision. Niqab, jar and any other garments hiding the face or uniform are not allowed. Defence is a central social actor and should reflect the diversity of the population. This is important to maintain the high legitimacy and support for defence, while also reflecting the culture and values of the population. The field prose has expressed, in an opinion of the Human Rights and Life-Sight Selection, that the defence should reflect the diversity of the population and be religious and life-view inclusive. Defence and police have different practices in the conveying of religious symbols. Among other things, it is related to: together with the defence recruiting the majority of its personnel through the protection obligation. The duty of protection must cover all men, regardless of religion, ethnicity or sexual orientation. We also practice voluntary service for women. Recently, a number of batches have adopted gender-neutral protection obligations. The government does not want to exclude anyone — neither women nor men — from serving in Defense because they use so-called non-disputable religious symbols. Recruiting widely and ensuring that defence represents all walks of life, regardless of life and ethnicity, is essential. I note that the Progress Party, in its remark in the vote, believes that religious symbols on the uniform may weaken the consideration of value neutrality. To that I would say that the term ‘value-neutral’ does not have to be understood as ‘no values’. The 2012 value base of the defence sector becomes visible. Here it is stated: ‘In some areas, a new and diverse Norway implies an expanded picture of values. At the same time, we are historically and valuablely based on Christian and humanistic ideals.» Mangfold is not just about justice, legitimacy and equivalency. At least as important is the fact that diversity, regardless of cultural and religious ties, contributes to strengthening the operational capacity of the defence. After extensive conversion, Norway today has a modern defence that can claim to be among the best in the world. The Government’s Notice of Competence in the Defence Sector, Competence for a New Time, shall be addressed by the Stortinget in June. The message emphasises the importance of diversity in defence. Many tasks have to be carried out. We need to use the potential of the entire population when recruiting defence personnel. It is important that the Chief of Defense has clarified how religious symbols can be used in the Defence. This ensures equal practice in all parts of the Defense. The defence is a cornerstone of our democracy, with broad popular anchoring, and will thus reflect on our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1126	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1130	I have read the Defence's uniform regulations, and in 2.24 Use of uniform in political demonstrations, etc., it says the following: ‘Commands and Citizens may take part in legal political demonstrations when they are not addressed to the Defence. In so doing, civil attraction shall be used. Similarly, in the case of public distribution of political texts, banknotes, etc.’.» Does the Council of State see that what I have just quoted stands in contrast to the fact that political or religious symbols can be worn on the uniform as they stand today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1140	This case is about religious symbols. This is about what kind of defense we want, and what kind of representation we're going to have in terms of the population. I have to be allowed to refer to parts of what Snorre Serigstad Valen said: This matter that has been raised is actually an answer to a problem that does not exist. The defence has allowed the use of religious symbols since 1989, but it has not been free. This was clarified in the regulation of the head of defence in 2012, and in this respect it is the regulation that I absolutely support. I think it is actually important, not least for what has been mentioned by several, namely that the defence is based on the duty of protection, that is. that in principle it really includes everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1145	Yes, one can try to make this a debate on duty or not, but the Council of State may answer the following: She may agree that both police and defence are one of Norway's most important instruments in given situations. Now that we have had a debate about the use of such symbols related to the police uniform, where today's government – represented by the Council of State Hadia Tajik – has said that it is not going to be relevant, I have to ask if there is a great deal of disagreement in the government, as the Minister of Defence thinks it is okay to have this on the Defence uniforms.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1150	I myself felt that there was a difference between the police and the defense. There's a difference between the police and the defense. It is not at all the case that all residents of the country are called to police service, but all residents are, in principle, called upon to serve a duty of protection – they are all subject to the duty of protection. That's actually why we've had this practice since 1989 in Defense, with different state councils running the Ministry of Defence. In fact, there has never been a problem in the defense. On the contrary, even the Feltprest Corps, which I see as very important, are concerned that one should be able to have different religions and different life-view practices in the Defence, and that it is actually quite important, because it also reflects the society we have. Because it covers everyone, it is actually important that we continue the practice that has been in place since 1989.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1155	Yes, we have a general duty of protection, but the reality is that there is only a fraction of youth schools of compulsory age coming out into operational service, and you go through admission tests there, just like at the Police College. This is largely about representing the state of Norway by wearing a uniform with the Norwegian flag on it. There's one of the challenges here: shouldn't it be the same principles that underlie wearing a green uniform as a blue uniform? Both uniforms represent and show Norway’s instrumentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1160	It's not the flag we're discussing here. These are religious symbols permitted by the Defence Regulations. I want to underline that. This has been a practice in principle since 1989. I see that the Progress Party has a completely different view on this issue in terms of defence. In fact, I believe that the practice we have had is important to continue. I would also like to stress that, although not everyone today is called to the first duty, all men are currently covered by the duty of protection. That's what's fundamental to me in order to be able to continue the practice we've had since 1989.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1167	In fact, the government and the majority of the population choose to deal with the same issues differently. To refer to the duty of protection is at best just an excuse, because then one would be to believe that it was not possible to recruit non-ethnic Northmen to the police, because that which is not allowed to bear political or religious symbols. The proposal is motivated – I believe – primarily by wanting to prevent future conflicts within the institution. Is it not true that the ambiguity of setting a limit on minor so-called modifications, for which the Council of State actually argues today, is now left to the individual consul or man? Are not the problems and the management of a conflict that may arise now being carried on?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1174	I really want to just repeat that there's a difference between the police and the defense, and I think it's a little strange that the representative of Kristiansen doesn't see it. At the same time, we have had a practice in Defence since 1989, and it has never been a problem with or a discussion about. This has been the case under different state governments. State Council Fjærvoll had in his time a separate programme to represent society in a better and broader way by bringing more with different life views into the Defence. So there has been no problem. The problem would arise if we were now to end this practice in Defense. We believe that this would have been completely wrong – also with regard to the values of the defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1179	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1182	There's a bit of an exciting debate about this, because there's one case with several sides that requires balances that I perceive the Right and the Advance Party are not willing to join. It's a very slippery security. The representative Staahle said that the community in Defense is being sacrificed. To be honest, I can't understand that. We don't sacrifice any community in the Defense by having a sensible uniform regulation. There is no one in the defense who believes that this is a problem at all. It is not that the uniforms of the defense bear the mark of slipping. When I meet representatives of the Defense, or when I see them on the street, on the train, or elsewhere, these aren't marked by chaos or uncertainty about what they actually represent. I think it is surprising that neither the representative of Kristiansen nor the representative of Staahle sees the difference between the police and the defence in terms of uniform regulations. The defense is the whole defence of Norway. In the case of the police, who have the power to exercise power against their own inhabitants, there must be no doubt that power comes from the state and the community alone. It's a rational argument. That is an argument that can be followed, and that is an argument that can be understood. You don't have to agree with that either, but it's an understandable logic that underlies it. But it is, as the Minister of Defense says, so that the police, first of all, do not have a duty to protect, and the defence does not have the primary purpose of being the monopoly of power of the state in Norway. We actually have a federal ban on it. And in the few exceptions we have where the defense is given limited police authority, this has never been a issue. Our defence is an external defence, and that is democracy's defence. With regard to the defence as the institution of Norwegian democracy, I find it difficult to see that it is a problem that the defence itself finds arrangements that protect both the individual's rights and the defence's need for clear and neutral uniformation. There can be no problem if you trust the Defense as an institution governed by democracy. This is an important debate, I agree. There is also a fundamental debate, but it is not a debate where I see no reason to conclude as absolutely as the Right and the Advance Party do. I suspect that if very many soldiers in the Norwegian defense were to cross their necks, and nothing but that, this proposal would not have been promoted, because it would not have been seen as a problem. This proposal may, on the contrary, contribute to more tension, and we are using a great deal of effort to problem something that no one other than the author of the proposal and the representatives of the Right in the European Parliament have seen as a problem up until now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1191	The representative Staahle started his speech by asking the question of whether we should hurt someone because of religion. That's not what this is all about. If you go in and read the defense website, you can find a lot of information about what the defense stands for, and what are the defence's core values. One of the first things you can read is: ‘Defence. For all we have. And all we are." That's exactly what also shows that the defense must reflect the society we have in Norway. We have a society where people believe in different gods. You have people in Norway who don't believe in a god. The core values of defence are respect, responsibility and courage, and that is what you work with, among other things. by tolerating and facilitating the possibility for people who have a personal conviction and want to bear a religious symbol in addition to the uniform to do so, when it is practicable to facilitate active service in the Defence. I want to quote from the blog to Ulf Leirstein, Staahle's colleague. It says: ‘I believe that it must now be reacted. We cannot allow this type of symbol in the Norwegian Defence Force. We're going to have soldiers who are going to be faithful to the King and Norway. Do not believe in religious leaders or political ideals. In the worst case, this could have serious consequences. Where is the loyalty of the soldiers who bear this kind of religious or political symbols.» I would like to ask the representative Staahle from the Progress Party a question: Does the Progress Party believe that it is the god or religious symbol you wear in the event that shows whether you have loyalty to the King or Norway in the service of the Defense? Is it compatible, in the view of the Progress Party, to use a hijab while being faithful to the King and Norway? I hope that the representative Staahle will distance himself from his party colleague, because I really hope that what Ulf Leirstein writes on his blog is representative of what the Progress Party believes in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1209	I just want to correct the representative Gustavsen with regard to what I said initially in my first post. It was that I asked questions about whether we should bow to the fear of hurting someone because they have a religious or political conviction. I think we need to be able to think a little bit wider than that. To the last question, I just want to say that our intention with and our background to promote this proposal is that we believe uniforms, whether it's in the police or the defense, which is one of the main instruments of the state, should be focused and have one symbol, and that's the Norwegian flag. That's what you fight for and you have to fight with when you're in the Norwegian defense. I find it strange that, according to today's regulations, uniforms cannot be worn by, for example, legitimate political demonstrations. It is then explicitly stated in today's regulations that you have to go in civil. But at the same time, you can go about daily in the ministry with political or religious symbols. So they say there's no problem today. Let me then just show that right up the street here lies the Castle. There we have the Garden, which is on a 24-hour shift, and which also has limited police authority today. I have not registered – and I have been to the Garden myself and served my duty of protection there – that there has been a guard in front of the Castle with, for example, hijab. I wonder how those who had taken the trip up there, and there are many who do every day, who look at the watch parade and at the soldiers and take pictures, would react if you saw a guard with this. Because there's something Garden is proud of, it's just its uniform, with this beautiful hat with a shower. There is something all the gardeners like to go with and are proud to wear. I must say that I have followed this debate with some interest, and I do not think the arguments presented by representatives of the socialist parties are good enough. I note that there is clearly disagreement between the Council of State sitting here in the Chamber and her colleague Tadjik regarding the use of these types of symbols on uniforms that fall under the Norwegian State's instrument. I think that's a shame. But I see that we're not going to get as much further in this debate as it is now, so I choose to end there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1222	I am quite surprised at the way this debate has turned out. What is the problem presented by the Right and Advance Party? And for a fierce sloping safety that exists in the Right and Advance Party. I think these questions are difficult. These are arguments for the proposal of the Progress Party, but there are several arguments against this. There are arguments to allow other headgear in the police, but there are several arguments against it. And so there is no disagreement between the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Defence. It's a strange representation. There is full agreement that there should be different rules in the Defense and the Police. What may be surprising is that several of those who have spoken clearly do not see the difference between police and defence. There are quite a few regimes in the world where it is difficult to see differences in police and defence, but in Norway we have a law where it is clearly defined what the police tasks are, and what are the defence's tasks. That's why we can also make different rules for the police and the defense. To me, it's so hard to understand, it's totally incomprehensible. Then we also have to clarify, because it sounds like, when we've heard the Right Party and the Advance Party in this debate, that it's kind of free to use everything you want of symbols and headgear in defense: it's not that. It's actually pretty strictly regulated. It shall be compatible with the content of the service, it shall be capable of being combined with operational considerations and it shall operate in a safe manner. The head of defense has even made me aware of guidelines for this in order to have a level playing field throughout the defence. It's not free to use symbols and headgear as you like. As for the example that Staahle mentioned from the Garden, I would believe that if it is incompatible with using the Garden's uniform, you will not be allowed to use such a garment. So I'm surprised, because the Progress Party in Norway has become so that if there's something we don't like in society, we forbid it. It's become a very prohibition party – it's just to adopt a ban on what we don't like. It's certainly been partyubileum now – it hasn't – and I think maybe the party founder had been a little surprised by the great threat to the ban line that is now in the Progress Party. We must bring this debate down to the ground. This is no problem. I've been on the Foreign and Defence Committee for almost four years now and I've met countless representatives of soldiers and personnel organisations, and I've been visiting a number of Defense Departments. I have never heard that this has been a problem, it has never been raised in any meeting. This works very well today. Let's not, on the Stortinget side, make problems with something that doesn't have any problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1235	The representative Sverre Myrli actually summed up very well what this debate is actually about, and what it shouldn't be about. But let me make a few comments: this is not about political symbols, because political symbols are not allowed per day. These must be religious symbols. As I also said before, it's the way the head of defense is concerned that we're going to have a diversity in defense. In fact, he believes that diversity strengthens operational ability. It is also strongly underlined in the communication of competences submitted to the Stortinget to be addressed in June. That's why this is absolutely fundamental. The Uniform Regulation respects the rights of the individual, but also the role-consciousness that one has to have. That's why I want to clarify one thing: It was asked about the Guard of His Majesty's King. The separate provisions apply to the Uniform Regulation – which was also addressed by the representative Myrli. I would once again stress that the defense is not at all neutral in value, and it does not want to be. I have two documents that are quite small and easy to read and that clearly describe the value of the defence. It is important for the defence to identify with what is the core value – transparency, visibility, respect, responsibility and courage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1244	The representative Tom Staahle has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1247	I draw the attention of the Council of State to the fact that there is a proposal for a representative here saying that religious and political symbols should be banned. That is what is contained in the proposal to be discussed here today. Then I have to say that I'm a little surprised by the representative Myrli who makes himself tall and dark and blows up to the big heights of his post. It is that our society is changing, and as the representative of Myrli was involved, there have been over time debates on this topic in different contexts. It's not unnatural that you also take the debate when it's tied up with the Defense. I record that there are some of his party colleagues in Akershus – whom he himself was in for – who have understood some of this by voting for the ban line on the use of these types of symbols in Norwegian schools. I am absolutely sure that this debate will not end with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1256	Thank you for the debate. In his last post, the representative of Staahle summarizes that he has not understood the point with what we are saying. There is a gap between banning lucky clothes in educational situations at school – based on a completely different logic and a completely different rational – and banning religious clothing in defense. That's where the Progress Party revealed what they're working on. For they are against religious garments – in any case. That's why they don't see the difference on a strict line with regard to religious clothing in the police, which has monopoly of power in Norway, in the defence, which has a duty to protect and reflect the diversity of society and in educational situations, where teachers need good interaction with the students. There are no common denominators in these matters other than the fear of religious symbols of the Progress Party – as long as they are not Christians. I'm sorry I'm saying that, but it's not going to be more obvious than the representative Staahle himself is doing it right now. It's very bad, because this is an important and fundamental debate. I think, for example: even it is very difficult to decide on the use of religious symbols in the police. These are good arguments for and against. The Christian People's Party contributed a very good comment when dealing with the matter here, which concerns something quite different, namely the use of religious symbols in a service that everyone in principle has to carry out. That debate can be good and valuable, but not if the starting point is a monotonous focus on the fact that religious symbols themselves are a problem, because they are not. There may be a problem in a given context — in educational situations, in the practice of the State monopoly on violence — but not in itself. In a way, it is good that the Progress Party is as clear as the representative Staahle was here at the end – and as the representative Leirstein is on his blog. But it does not serve the debate, and it does not serve our common purpose, namely to take Norway further as a multicultural and inclusive society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1267	I am quite sure that the Progress Party is well able to defend itself. But I record that the party spokesperson has used up his speaking time. I am convinced that it is not today's socialist parties who have a monopoly on what is truth, correctness and how equal things should be treated, and have the objective answer to this. But I think we'll all be discussing this matter with a little more respect than using this rule technique that I'm recording that the case rapporteur and some other representatives are now turning to speakers for. The case rapporteur allows himself to say that no one else understands the point in the matter. But it was actually he who started by comparing playing with the national theme of the Norwegian football team with having a Norwegian soldier uniform on him. I believe that in a case like this, where both the Advance Party and the Right draw the comparison with the practice of justice and the police, one should avoid using this kind of ruling technique. This is a low point in the political debate. I record – after listening to other matters during the morning – that the long election campaign is well under way. Any relevant argument that can serve the case and be an indirect attack on a political opponent is then allowed. That's not what this case is about. I think you'll stand by to show greater respect for a matter and in the mention of a political opponent, and also in the approach to a matter that can obviously have more angles of inference than the majority of today's parties make up spokesmen and spokesmen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1278	I know that the representative Kristiansen from the Right owns a higher level than this. I have by no means equated playing football with serving in Defense. Kristiansen only needs a brief dip in Stortinget's protocols to establish that what he said instead, of course, is completely wrong. But it is the representatives of the majority of the Committee and the Minister of Defence who have presented a number of fundamental assessments and factually based arguments as to why there is no parallel between school, police and defence. This is a complicated debate. It has not been the will of either the Progress Party or the representative of Kristiansen from the Right to respond to these arguments. It's not low. It's not rule techniques. It is simply humiliating to what is a complex field of action, where we in the majority do not feel the same need to conclude as bombastic and completely without a basis in the defence empire as the minority in the Committee does.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1283	I actually agree that these are interesting debates and important debates, because there are important issues here. It's really about whether we're going to abolish a practice that's been in the Defense for 24 years, by allowing religious symbols within very strict frameworks, which have been established a year ago by the Defense Manager. But the reason I thought it was important to take the word again was that political symbols were asked. The representative Staahle was concerned that he himself had read the uniform regulations of the defense. Political symbols are not allowed. These are religious symbols, which are also very defined, as they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1290	I took the word because Ivar Kristiansen revealed through his post that he might be an expert on ruling techniques. When Ivar Kristiansen talks about other people using ruling techniques, his entire article was an example that he himself is at least in a good position to use them – by accusing us of using them, and describing it in the way he does. I want to say that the defense has practiced this system of combining religious symbols with the uniform since 1989. So there was a case, because the head of defense put it into a regulation to ensure consistent practice everywhere in the defense and in all departments of the defense. At first this became a matter. I have a question for Ivar Kristiansen: if this has been such a big problem for the Defense to practice since 1989, why hasn't the Right suggested this in the Stortinget earlier? What makes this so important now? I have also followed closely what has happened at the Højre national meeting in connection with several good programme debates that have been there, among others. on gender-neutral protection – congratulations! I have also seen with interest that the Right still wants a protective defence, and that you do not want to go in for a fully-fledged model. I think that's good, because I belong to a party that's for a protective defense. But the question is what the Right in the case is going to do if there comes a very motivated, well-suited sikh who wants to graduate with a turban – which we have had examples of – or, for that matter, if there comes a woman who is well motivated and very well-suited, and the Defense wants to recruit for first-time service, but who then has a hijab, who is so important for her identity and faith. The question is, what kind of system will the Right establish to prevent them from entering the Defence? Maybe it's just in a society like ours, with a defense like ours, that we have to facilitate, even better than today, that a woman with a Muslim background can also serve in Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1303	It was a clearly wounded Ivar Kristiansen who found that today's socialist majority would reject the proposal of the Progress Party. I don't think the Christian People's Party feels quite comfortable being called the Socialist majority. When we come to voting later today, I am quite sure that the Left too, which is not represented in the committee, will vote against the proposal. So it's the Right and Advance Party against the Smoke. I would also like to say that we are not on the part of the government parties who have made any proposals. So there are others who want to whip in touch with water, who have started this debate. Then I get to Ivar Kristiansen almost regret that the representatives of the position are engaged in questions and argue against the proposals that one opposes. Finally, Staahle revealed that the Advance Party does not want to understand this. The discussion in Akershus County was about lucky clothes in the classroom. Of course, this is something quite different from what we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1313	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1329	Professor Fagerberg of the University of Oslo said that we are European champions at cost level and only moderate in innovation at the Council of State Conference last autumn. Yes, he actually asked the question whether we were a lag in innovation, since we are only cutting at the most mediocre international, and should have opportunities to do it better. The report of the SSB, to which this interpellation refers, shows that there is a decline in product and process-oriented innovation. It complements this image, and that's what's behind this interpellation, which is not only about industrial research, but also about our innovativeness and competitiveness. In the Communication on the Perspectives, the government clearly states that continued high economic growth requires capacity for innovation, conversion and efficient resource use, and that the development of labour and productivity is crucial for future living standards. No one disagrees. But there is little doubt that nutrient research is central to achieving some of these objectives. Building up innovation and competitiveness takes time. It is a laborious work, not least in which research and development are entirely central, both through public instruments for various types of industrial research and in the direct work of individual innovation and development companies. Research, development, innovation and increased competitiveness are therefore emerging from a steady work every single day, not through shipper-tax mentality and fire extinguishment by single events. Evaluation clearly shows that actions such as the TaxFUNN and user-driven innovation programmes have a greater potential for value creation and better quality than other actions. It is the direct link between industry and research that makes, among other things, TaxFUNN returns twice for each invested krone in the form of increased R & D efforts in enterprises, and similarly for user-driven research projects. In the light of that knowledge, I am surprised that the research report that is now being discussed in the Stortinget does not address this problem by setting up a plan for more research in the business community or getting more research-driven innovation. It's two sides of the same thing. In this respect, there is little or no innovation in business-oriented measures. The only long-term response to our challenges of innovation and competitiveness is the work done in close cooperation with industry. A few events over the past few weeks and days illustrate the importance of business-oriented research and innovation. The Norwegian forest industry is in crisis — no new crisis, but some of the results are now visible as profitability problems in the processing industry. The danger is imminent because in this area, too, we need to return to just becoming a raw material supplier to simple products and to other nations. The forest industry is just an industry where this type of innovation, which this interpellation is all about, is particularly topical. But these days, the forest industry is becoming more a symbol that we haven't given our house sufficient authority in the field of industrial research as a basis for innovation. It also shows the government's rescue package for the forest industry, where it has now been realised that research needs to be done – and proposes resources for this. Part of the forest industry is quite lukewarm to the very parts of the package. Of course, research and development are slow processes that cannot remedy acute situations. Therefore, in a forestry context — for those concerned — these appropriations are almost symbolic, and then a symbol of something that should have been prioritised at an earlier stage. Even more illustrative when we get to – not the rescue package, but let me call it – the support package for the Norwegian mainland industry that was presented last Sunday. Again, the government is clearly now looking at the need for research, development and innovation to improve competitiveness. Yes, they have seen the writing on the wall so clearly that there has been nothing else to do but brush a little of the dust of Right's long-standing proposal to rehabilitate the damage the red-green government did on, among other things. Tax FUNN scheme. TaxFUNN is the ultimate industrial research: unbureaucratic, manageable by small and large enterprises, directly impact taxes and produce demonstrable good results, i.e. a tax incentive that works quickly. It is excellent that the government now sees that the type of stimulus is effective. Then it is a pity to note that this proposal is limited to only partially rehabilitating the cuts that the government itself made in 2007, by cutting 150 million. kr of this scheme. Now you're repairing with 100 million. kr. Thus, the cut has cost 1 billion for non-bureaucratic direct research and development. kr over these years. There are significant amounts that could have had a significant impact on innovation and competitiveness, and show how important it is to keep up with a business-oriented research – whether it is tax incentives or not. I would also like to congratulate the Minister for Industry on having participated in proposing start-up letters that will favour investment and development in new processes. This is also important to provide capital for new innovation and to afford research in enterprises. This is also true on the tax side, although depreciation is not a cyclical or cyclical instrument. It should be in line with wear and fire, but it has not been. Therefore, these arrangements should be permanent. The reduction of corporation tax can be seen in exactly the same context. It allows businesses to keep more of their profits to invest in improved competitiveness, precisely by spending money on business-oriented research, which is too low in this country. Similarly, taxes on wealth also work. The owners who have to take dividends from the companies not only bottle them for profits, but they bottle them for cash. That is what is at the heart of spending money to invest in improved competitiveness. It does not help with profitability and accounting profit if the money cannot be used for anything – because the owner has had to take out the money to pay the tax. Since the government – and hopefully also the Minister of Industry, I believe that he is participating in – is now looking with light and light among the past ever-repeated proposals for improvements in nutrition research, I would like to mention the scheme User-driven Innovation Arena. There is just such a quick-acting antidote to poor results in industrial research that should have been used more. The government has still granted a little – we have had bigger increases – but there should be no competition for that. The main thing here is that there are pottery projects for several hundred million dollars that would give a significant impact on research – towards nutrient-oriented research. It's impossible to talk about this without getting into the very central instrument of research, and that's the use of the oil money, i.e. the 4 pst rule according to the rule of action. It has not been used as originally thought. It should be a third party to research, a third party to transport and a third party to growth-promoting tax relief. Research has suffered from this, at the same time all know the well-known rest cutting. There has also been at the expense of nutrition research. Now you see that it should have been done. Now you are in a situation where we have the two-track economy – like a millstone around your neck. Efforts are being made to get rid of it, but the long-term work of building up innovation and building up competitiveness takes time. The fastest way is to trigger the company's own forces in the form of their capital – I've been talking about this – but also in the form of the human capital that exists in the companies. What is the value creation is all the people who work around every day in all of Norway's businesses. That is why I would like to strike a blow for a small measure that we have repeated many times, namely employee ownership. I don't think anything is so motivating for increasing innovation and competitiveness as giving people opportunities. It is also a tax incentive, but there is a government of better thought. It will increase efforts and increase motivation, and I think it will produce significant results – if you also dare to go that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1359	The interpellant addresses an important theme, namely the need for Norwegian business to be innovative and knowledgeable. Why is that important? Well, because our value creation depends on the development and profitability of the business community and on the rise of companies in international competition. This competition is increasingly based on knowledge and competence. Not least in a country that has the ambition to have a high standard of living, facilitating research and innovation in the business world is an important task in political work. Research in industry is financed both by industry itself and by the public. Under our government, total public funding for research and development has increased by 6,7 billion. kr, corresponding to a real growth of 32 pst. for the period 2005 to 2013. It is much higher than the general growth in the state budget and shows that research has been a priority in the use of, among others, the increased transfers from the oil fund for which the action rule allows. The estimate of the Ministry of Knowledge for the budget for 2013 is under 26 billion. kr – also a real growth compared to the previous year. Included TaxFUNN is the public R & D investment estimated at 27.5 billion. kr. Public R & D appropriations in 2013 amount to 0,92 pst. of the GDP estimate, i.e. equal to less than the 1 pst target for the public sector, so that it will achieve the total of 3 pst. It was proposed at the base of 2.4 billion. kr for industrial research and development in the Ministry of Industry and Trade budget for 2013. Of this, 1.4 billion was. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the Agency in accordance with Article 21(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of In particular, the government strengthens the commitment to industrial research in biotechnology and nanotechnologies by 10 million, respectively. NOK 20 million. kr for the follow-up to R & D strategies submitted in these areas. The revised national budget announced that the future tax FUNN will also increase by 100 million. kr. The main single instrument for supporting research in industry is precisely SkattenFUNN. Here, companies receive R & D through the tax system, an aid of an estimated 1.5 billion. kr in 2012. There are 3600 active projects each year under this scheme. Innovation Norway advises the companies, the Research Council pre-approves of the research content of the applications, and the Tax Directorate approves the costs of the equation. The user-driven innovation are the largest grant scheme in the Norwegian Research Council. This is an open competitive venue where projects compete on quality without thematic bonds. The allocation of the 2013 State Budget Programme is now in excess of 360 million. kr. There are also a number of other grant schemes in the Research Council that are relevant to different sectors of business, including: Energy21, DEMO 2000, ICT VIEW, FUEL in the field of biotechnology, and CLIMIT and Climate21 in the field of climate. The public research and development contract scheme is managed by Innovation Norway. The scheme involves the granting of a government grant when there is a committed and targeted cooperation between two or more business partners, IFU, or between business and public actors, OFU. The scheme is to be allocated 285 million. kr in 2013. Government parties are continuously working to improve the conditions under which businesses operate in Norway. Norwegian industry is doing well, and even though perhaps the Right Looking for research, theory or statistics to show that things are going bad, and substantiating a black painting of Norwegian business and economics, the reality is that there is strong growth in companies. In fact, since the red-green government took over in 2005, 130 new jobs have been created net every day, every single week, including Saturday and Sunday, for almost eight years. This is a growth that is many times as high as that in the period 2001–2005 when one, slightly depending on the statistics used, had a place between 11,000 and 23,000 jobs in four years. We actually have a stronger growth in our reign, every quarter, than it was under the Right in four years. So we're going to like to get good advice on nutrition development, but I think we're going to pick them up somewhere else than with those who ran from 2001 to 2005. We need to continuously improve the framework for industrial activities. We do that with the tax measures that were notified in the revised national budget. We do it by continuing to invest in research and innovation. We do this through a new and better regulation, including: for the protection of patents. We're also doing it through capital injections to business. We have decided to establish up to six new nationwide seed funds. We have strengthened the nationwide establishment grant scheme in Innovation Norway, and we have increased equity in SIVA and Investinor so that they can have a larger investment framework. We have also done a considerable amount of work on the simplification side. We have set an ambitious target of reducing business administrative costs by 10 billion. kr. We have carried out larger simplification projects than any government before us and have now reduced the cost of business by nearly 3 billion. kr. We have managed very well through the international financial turmoil. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, and we have good and solid growth, while the countries around us are struggling. In Right-Handed Sweden, unemployment is rising again and is now approaching 8.5 p.m., while youth unemployment is approaching 25 p.m. But even though we are basically doing well, Norwegian business is not unaffected. Therefore, it is important to have specific measures against the industries that are struggling, in particular towards innovation, migration, innovation and product development. That is what we did in the spring of 2010 with a yard package just focused on eco-friendly solutions for innovation and development, and we are now doing through a wood and forest package, which helps an important and traditional industry in Norway through a transition period, so that new markets can be met with new products and new competitiveness. Although things are going well today, it's not given that things are going well in the future. That is why we must continue to have a responsible economic policy and keep up the use of money. I see that the Right Leader also says in the media that it may not be so dangerous with that rule of action anyway, and we know that the large cooperation party on the outer right has an even more relaxed relationship with the rule of action. It would be the worst thing that could happen to competing companies if the use of money was running smoothly and if interest rates and exchange rates made it even more difficult for Norwegian companies to be competitive. Instead, we must continue to invest in knowledge, ensure that the good developments in Norwegian school continue, and ensure that we have a continued offensive commitment to research and innovation. It is important that we are innovative, it is important that we are productive, and it shows Norwegian business that you are every day. In the period from 2005 to now, research carried out by industry itself has also increased. During the last government, from 2001 to 2005, the research actually went down in business, so it's -- as so many times before -- that the zeal, commitment and direction of the opposition parties are much better when they're in opposition than when they're in government, and then it's very nice to have them in opposition. We're going to work together on good suggestions, we're going to get inspiration where we get it, but let's again stress that Norwegian business is on the right track, that we're doing a lot right and that we're doing a lot better than some of our surrounding competing nations. We will continue to do that, including: through a strong commitment to research, innovation, development and innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1380	I thank you for your answer. It is a pity that the Minister of Economic Affairs always goes backwards as soon as someone at all tries to imagine that some of the situations we have, for example. has in mainland Norway, in the two-track economy, something to do with the fact that we should have ordered our house in a different way when it comes to, for example. research, development and innovation. It's a fact. It's not enough to make the exact statistics that are bad. I was prepared for the answer to be an artillery bombardment of numbers and statistics on everything that goes well. We don't disagree with that at all. What is the matter, and which was illustrated so well in this support package on Sunday, is that the government also understands that there are problems in the mainland industry, and that we should spend the money differently. It is quite significant when the Minister of Industry himself, as the most important in the field of industrial research, is the TaxFUNN scheme of between 3000 and 4000 projects each year. That statistics has been known all along. Why in the world hasn't the Minister of Industry realized that maybe it wasn't so clever – as an example – to remove this billion in the years from 2007? I had actually thought that this would be a constructive debate on the basis of what came on Sunday, but the council said once again that the opposition was black-painting. No, we're not. We continue to tell the government about the good measures we have, and sometimes we succeed, in fact, sometimes brushing dust from our proposals and reserving them here in the Storting, and then they become a lot more edible. What the Minister of Industry does not have in mind is how to put the companies themselves, with their own capital, both financial and human capital, in a position to do the research, the innovation and the increase in competitiveness that are involved in using their own profits. He did not touch that at all. But the government thinks the same way; they've lowered the corporate tax. Why do they do that? Well, they say it's to strengthen the mainland industry. Yeah, I'd love to. It's because you can keep more of your own to invest in what makes a more capable, more innovative, in the future. It forgets the government to talk about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1389	We don't roll out the artillery at all. If we had, it would have sounded completely different. Then it would have been another kind of discussion. On the contrary, we think it is very positive that the interpellant addresses such a topic. It is a common goal, I think, although the Right Party leader sometimes makes it different, that we want the most innovative, productive and competitive Norwegian business. I don't think any parties in this room disagree with that goal. It's just the strategy and the path that we have a different view of. We've had a lot of discussions over the last five years about how to deal with the financial crisis. Already in the autumn of 2008 we announced that we had to start giving a little more gas. Then the Right fiscal spokesman, Jan-Tore Sanner, warned against giving gas. We did it anyway, because we saw the crisis coming. Then we brought a big crisis package in February – much of it to activity, but also to change and innovation. Then we came «too late», and then it was «too little». In retrospect, it has been shown that both what we did in 2008, spring 2009 and subsequent government budgets have been very adapted to the needs of business to keep the wheels going, to change and to meet the crisis in a good way. And we're in the privileged situation that we actually have close to full capacity utilisation in the Norwegian economy, and we have to make sure that we don't get any pressure that makes the competitive part of business in particular get weaker. We contribute through the package that was notified in the revised budget. Some of it has been discussed several times, but e.g. the reduction of corporation tax has not been proposed by the opposition, at least not by the party Right, in the alternative state budgets. So these are the actions we're doing, and there's a direction we're warning, because we've put down a sample that's going to look at how we can move forward on that road, which our neighboring country has also done. Then we have to provide a broader tax base and close gaps so that we maintain the income of school, care for the elderly and health. You can't put all of these taxes on the others. Then the budget doesn't go together, and then we don't get to meet important needs in society. Research and development must be pursued further, and we must ensure that industry researches more. This will be facilitated both by strengthening the FUNN, by facilitating it through public research funds, but we will also facilitate it through specific business strategies in cluster areas where we are strong. We're about to come across a business report where we're going to go through this, looking at the two-way division of the Norwegian economy – between a very large number of companies, both in the oil sector and elsewhere, that are going well, and the niches and industries that are struggling because of the international crisis. Innovation will also be very central.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1400	Interpellant sees the spotlight on innovation in business, and, as the Minister says, innovation is important, we are probably all agreed on as being here in this Chamber today. Business research is funded both by industry itself and by the public, and I refer to the Minister's posts and the formidable increase that has come from the public. The total public funding of R & D is in real terms 6.7 billion. kr, corresponding to a real growth of 32.1 pst. for the period 2005 to 2013. So there's no doubt that the public has delivered. However, it is not possible – not once for the red-green government – to decide that business should contribute more. Yesterday I was in Kalvåg, and there I saw among other things. on a fishing industry. They could proudly tell about innovation, among other things: in the case of an innovation in the pre-salting and re-handling of herring. They have enjoyed and benefited from the TaxFUNN scheme and were, of course, full of praises for this scheme and were pleased with the increase of 100 billion. kr entered in the revised budget. TaxFUNN is also the largest single agent we have in support of research in industry. In addition, it is unbureaucratic, as the fleet representative referred to, and it is easy to administer. Innovation Norway advises the companies, the Research Council pre-approves of the research content in the applications, and the Tax Directorate approves the costs of the equation. Simple and simple – but remember that this is a legal system. In other words, it also triggers projects that in any case had seen the light of day, and not just the marginal projects, the ones we are actually looking for. TaxFUNN has some 3,600 active projects a year, and supported the company's R & D through the tax system of an estimated 1,5 billion. kr in 2012. This is a lot of money, and there are a lot of companies! So a little bit about Norway's position on the Innovation Union Scoreboard 2013 – which I assume is one of the investigations that the fleet representative referred to. Norway has 17th place — as last year — among EU/EFTA countries. We have been ranked relatively low on this survey for many years, and this year's report gives the same impression – Norway is about in the middle of the tree. Innovation Union Scoreboard consists of 25 indicators broken down into different areas that are important for innovation. I have to admit that when it comes to the composite indicator, it's a little hard to say what atrocities are actually there, because there are several weaknesses in it, and there are several unresolved questions around it. We also know that, in any case, there are a lot of research and other factors that influence and promote the creation of value in a country, such as the labour market's field of activity, laws and institutions, a well-run and well-regulated financial market, etc. Many of these are discussed; it was discussed here in the hall last week, under the perspective message. I would also like to point out that this Innovation Union Scoreboard is very back-coding. This year’s survey is for example: the first to capture the results of the financial turmoil. So, yes, there's a lot of research. A new Nordic survey of crop holdings shows that Norway is the best source of results from Nordic countries. This study probably does not give a complete picture of the situation in Norwegian business, but it shows that how to describe the world depends on what sources we choose to use, and there are many statistical sources that indicate that Norway is doing very well. And you should be allowed to look at the unemployment rate as an indicator. Here Norway is in a category of itself, as an island in Europe, with the lowest unemployment rate. Finally, I would like to point out that the government has done a lot to improve the business environment, for example. by means of simplification. There have been many ministers who have said that they should take care of the simplification work, but no one – until today's Minister, Giske – has taken due note of this. The government has set an ambitious target of reducing business administrative costs by 10 billion. kr, and measures have been agreed and implemented for 3 billion. kr. This shows the action and the efficiency of its implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1421	I think we have to go back to what was the content of the interpolation. I have heard both the Council's response to the interpellation and now the representative Heggø, and I would like to remind you that the interpellant is discussing the topic of nutrient research. He does not address a topic related to research in general. In the answer, the Council of State used its usual statistics, related to how much research has been allocated. Of course, he uses numbers from 2005 until today. It sounds a lot more impressive than if he had taken to heart what has been included in the 2013 state budget. That's why I'm going to bring the Council of State to the state budget for 2013. In 2013, the government proposed a total increase in research of 1.4 billion. kr. But the nutrient-oriented part of research in the 2013 budget increased by 40 million. kr. It was divided into 20 million. NOK 10 million for the so-called NANO2021 project. kr to BioTek and nearly 10 mill. kr to the User-Controlled Innovation Arena, i.e. the BIA system. You can use statistics in many ways. In this context, Mark Twain has stated that there are three kinds of lies: it's a lie, it's a foreboding lie, and it's statistics. Obviously, statistics can be read in a lot of ways. It can be done the way you want it to be. The representative Hegø was also concerned: what kind of measurement statistics are we going to use when it comes to who we're going to compare with? I'm not very concerned about it. I'm more concerned about looking at what kind of results we get out of what we're actually doing. I fully agree with the Council when he says that a terrible lot is going well. Steps have been taken, as late as Sunday. But let's try to look at a little bit of different industries than what was now presented. Among other things, we have a fishing industry that really has problems. It's an industry that has a huge deficit in many ways. Nor does it have the large capital to implement the innovation programmes that are needed, including: to develop new file lines. There is a clear link between taxes and profits in an enterprise and what money can be allocated to. For the company that has this tax option, the tax FUNN is extremely important. Therefore, the government should come earlier, as the Progress Party has proposed with regard to the TaxFUNN, and look at the hourly rate and on it with regard to removing the roof. What many people refer to is that you stick on the roof, linked to the SkattenFUNN. It's a big problem. It is not so hard to understand that the companies that work with these challenges every day are also the ones that see what you need and how you can get on with it. And then it's about raising the capital that makes you get these possibilities. I think it is quite obvious that the package related to the forest industry is absolutely necessary. We've seen that lately. But the big question is, are the measures announced by the government there good enough to meet the challenges that lie there? The investor is transferred approx. 500 million. kr. Some measures are being taken in the field of innovation. But it's clear that where you really have the big challenges, you're dealing with the market-based one, just to get rid of the products we're able to produce. Therefore, it is very important that we enable these companies to make their own conversions. It is important to look not only at the TaxFUNN but also at other direct tax deductibles in terms of research, development and innovation. I was in the fishing industry instead, but this could apply to many different areas. The furniture industry has worn out tremendously. You had the so-called Innovation Furniture project, which went for some years, with 10 million. kr per year. Then all of a sudden you cut it down. Now you're down to a relatively low level, which makes you get relatively little out of it. I look forward to the measures, although the measures will not actually apply until next year's budget. In the case of corporation tax and that piece, it comes at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1442	I listened to the Minister of Industry's comments with great interest. I mean, I could say that you had pressed the repeat button. I say that because I have just reread a report from a big debate last January, when I had an interview with the Minister of Industry on the same topic. It was very recognizable what the Minister of Industry said today. The only thing that's new may be the hesitant contradictions that when the opposition criticises and points out weaknesses in government policy, we use black paint on Norway. He did not have it in January last year. It's really quite incomprehensible that the government has been so passive in this field, which is about research and development in business and innovation. It's a passivity that's been going on for eight years. It is only now that there are some measures to be taken. All rankings and comparisons between Norway and other countries show a completely distinct pattern. We invest too little in research. The main problem behind these figures is the lack of research in business. The problem is not only that we are in the middle of the tree, as was said earlier in the debate, in relation to all countries in the Western world – and Europe – but we are also clearly the worst in the Nordic countries. Once again, when comparing Norway with other countries, it may be beneficial to compare us with our nearest neighbouring country. At least they're in many ways the easiest to compare with. And then you can come up with what's different, but it's a completely unique pattern. In the right, we're not particularly satisfied with this jumbo place in the Nordic region. So it's not just business research. There are a number of other indicators, for example: cooperation between academia and business. Norway is also on the jumbo site, clearly behind Sweden, Denmark and Finland. These other Nordic countries, as I mentioned, are not just better than Norway, but they are actually among the best countries in the world. So there we obviously have something to learn. Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen expressed some frustration about a similar theme at a large conference last November. Then there were university rankings, where the pattern is the exact same. Sweden, Finland and Denmark are clearly ahead of Norway in terms of university results. The best Norwegian university now, the University of Oslo, is in ninth place in the Nordic region, turned off by the universities of the other countries. The Minister of Knowledge expressed frustration: there must be something they do better than us in these countries, and we need to look at that. There is probably also advice for the Minister of Industry. Because we have asked for these things in debate after debate, here in the Storting and in other forums, and have been met with exodus and evasive answers. The government has a goal of that 3 pst. of the GDP of Norway will be researched. I checked the record, and in January last year the Minister of Industry maintained that it was the government's goal. The government will not say anything about when that goal is to be achieved or how it is to be achieved. That's where we get the elusive answers. Why is that important? Well, because this is an international goal. Norway has also joined it. Again, countries like Sweden and Denmark are well above this. They actually have a 4 pst. goal, but Norway holds on to the 3 pst. goal. We're halfway to reach that goal. The challenge lies in business. Private research shall constitute 2 pst. GDP. It corresponds to a triple in relation to the level of the day. When you have such a big gap between the government's official objective and the realities today, you have to expect the government to have some idea of which way to go in order to achieve this goal and what measures the government is going to take. But we haven't. Then we received the research report, which has been mentioned earlier. It's for treatment in Stortinget. It is primarily a public sector research report. It does not respond to these major challenges, and we will come back to that in the examination of the research communication. It's a fact, to take another percentage, that 0.13 pst. GDP is currently being used in public budgets to stimulate business research. Clearly, it's too little.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1463	There has been a lot of talk about publicly funded research here today. What I want to talk about is the business's own funding of research. Something has happened in the future, but still the industry in Norway is using significantly less of its resources in research than the industry in our neighbouring countries does. In Norway, it's 44 pst. Of the total research effort funded by industry, in our neighbouring country, there are 60 pst. I often challenge business in terms of incentives and others, so that they take a greater responsibility for investing in research and not just in other factors that can drive industrial development. Clearly, we can have a dialogue on what public stimulus is needed to boost private funded research, but I also believe that we need to challenge business to a shift in stagnation when it comes to spending more of the intriguing funds on research, to build up innovation and ignition in the future. It has been a stop in the Norwegian industry to say that we have a business structure that does not make it natural for us to use as much of the turnover for research as our neighboring countries. That's not correct. The latest indicator report from NIFU and the Statistical Central Bureau states quite explicitly that although we are correcting for industrial structure, Norwegian industry spends less money on research than neighbouring countries. Nor is it the case that in a high-cost country like Norway, some industries, because they are in a particular industry, can use less research. The raw material-based industry itself needs to spend a lot of money researching if they are to survive in Norway, which is a country with pressure in the economy. So the question is, how are we going to get that change in attitude? One of the ways we can achieve that change of attitude is to work together with the community of competences, with universities and higher education institutions. In my region, I have seen that the regional research fund has triggered a fantastic partnership between business and university, because one that can solve the concrete research challenges one has in the region. The regional research fund, together with the regional industry and the university, can invest in the research that really meets the needs of the region. But if I don't think completely wrong, right across from the regional research funds, which may be one of the most important incentives to achieve that kind of cooperation. Another important incentive for such cooperation is the Norwegian Centres of Expertise and the funding mechanism we have had there. Now, fortunately, the Right has turned around, so they are involved in financing it, but the Progress Party is still against supporting the Norwegian Centres of Expertise and removing the funds. I want to talk a little bit about the two-track economy in the end. The two-track economy can be attacked in two ways: one is to strengthen land-based business, to strengthen research and innovation in land-based business. The second, which is the most important part, is to reduce the pressure in the oil economy. There is so much pressure in the Norwegian economy today because of the oil economy that one should use extreme amounts of incentives to compensate. If Right seriously believes that the two-track economy is a problem, they should tell us how they want to reduce the pressure in the oil economy and what tax reforms they want to do to reduce the pressure in the oil economy. Without pointing out how to reduce that side of the two-track economy, their criticism of the two-track economy is not serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1478	Competence and research are essential for Norway to assert itself in international competition. This is one of the most important areas for our long-term capacity for value creation and innovation. The government therefore has a strong focus on different instruments to strengthen the ability of research and education institutions, enterprises and public authorities to recruit and maintain competence at international level. It is important for us to encourage companies in different ways to further train the workforce and develop new skills. Nutritional research and commercialisation of research results must continue to be given priority. We need strong public commitment to research, but at the same time we need to go more with business in order to increase research efforts, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises do not have their own research departments, and we in the Centre are concerned that public efforts against industry for research purposes also have a focus on this target group. The red-green government has provided research. As the Council of State had in mind, we have actually increased the total public funding of R & D by 6.7 billion. kr, which corresponds to a real growth of the entire 32.1 pst. for the period 2005 to 2013. So every year with a red-green government, we've had a real growth of 3.5 pst. average. Tax FUNN has proved to be a good tool, and the Centre Party has been working throughout the period to continue and further develop this tax system, so that even more people have been able to make use of it. In 2012, the tax FUNN scheme provided support to the company's R & D through the tax system of an estimated 1.5 billion. kr. For us in the Centre Party, it is particularly important that even smaller businesses benefit from their research skills for innovation and skills development in the enterprise and community. Universities and colleges need to see the benefits of concluding fruitful cooperation with industry, and there needs to be good and strong research environments in all parts of the country, where cooperation with enterprises is stimulated. For this reason, it is also essential for industrial research that the university and higher education structures be maintained and not centralised as some have suggested. Interpellant is, among other things, concerned about the decline in product and/or process innovations in the service industries. The R & D costs in service industries were 53 pst. of total R & D expenditure by industry in 2011. Ten years ago, industry was the largest R & D player in Norwegian business. Now the industry's share is 38 pst. The other sectors, which include, inter alia: the extraction of oil and gas, aquaculture and power supply has, on the other hand, been relatively stable. The growth in the service sector’s share of Norwegian business R & D testifies to a significant shift over the last decade.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1493	I am surprised that SV uses a debate on business conditions for research as an opportunity to attack Norwegian business for bad attitudes. It's very surprising – or it's not really, but I think the business will be just as bad. As far as the two-track economy is concerned, we have not criticised it. It was the government that was concerned about the two-track economy on Sunday, and then they put forward a proposal for tax relief to remedy this. I now understand that the representative from SV had also seen that the oil and gas industry was severely tightened, but that he has not been able to do so. Maybe we'll be happy for that. The representative Hegø stood up here and talked about that there's a weakness in all the statistics. Obviously, all statistics do not highlight the excellence of red-greens. I'm just taking note of that. To what she says we can't decide that business is going to contribute more: yes, we can actually do that. We can adopt better framework conditions, so undoubtedly business will contribute more. That is also the argument of the government, for example. in the case of the TAX FUNN scheme. Finally, the Council of State, which repeats this which has been said sometimes in the last few days, namely that the Right has never suggested any relief in corporate tax: No, we haven't. We have prioritised the taxes on wealth because it also directly affects investment. There is no difference whether you invest the company's money or your own money. The councils know that. He can only look at the Cermaq case in Stortinget, where the owner goes in with 700 million. NOK, money that, of course, the company itself could use if you had had them. So to this that still comes back, that you've done so and so much more than you did in the Bondevik government from 2001–2005. Yes, much more: much larger numbers, much longer time and quite different economic cycles. Norway was on its way up from a recession. There is a great difference between it and having sat and ruled the country on a back of high economic activity for very many years. There is also a significant commitment to be aware of, and precisely this with research, development and innovation we will see the results of later, whether it has been done in a sufficiently good way. I would also like to thank those who have taken part in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1512	Let me also thank you for a good interpellation debate on an important topic. Once again, we're confirming that this is a goal all parts, but that we have different strategies to reach it. We will continue to use public tax credits for research, innovation, industry-specific measures and contributions to conversion capacity to ensure the migration solidarity that exists in the labour market, among others. through close tripartite cooperation and ensuring the success of Norwegian business. The point is, no matter what statistics you refer to -- I think Nesvik said that statistics can be used for almost anything -- you can't change the reality. Reality out in Business Norway tells us about 250,000 more jobs since 2005, the strongest growth in employment ever, and it is across an international crisis. It is a bit strange to hear the interpellant talk of us riding on a wave of boom since 2005, when the world has been through the worst economic downturn of 80 years, where Europe has now suffered a decline in GDP for several years, and where unemployment has increased only from last year to this year by two million people and reached a record 26 million out in the EU. Our neighbouring countries are also hit hard. That's not exactly the definition of a high economic activity. Here at home it's been good. Despite international economic conditions, we have managed, with Europe's lowest unemployment, with continuous growth, with increased employment and full capacity utilisation. We want that policy to continue, and to facilitate the competitiveness, productivity and profitability of Norwegian business. We do that by investing in knowledge, infrastructure, research and innovation. It is the policy that has helped up to now, and that is the policy we hope will continue for the next four years. Then we have to do what's right, not spend 15 billion. to eliminate taxes on wealth, half of which do not go to working capital, but also to do the tax measures that really help businesses, whether on depreciation schemes, at SkattenFUNN or at corporation tax. We want to move forward in this direction, while maintaining the important income potential we need for health, care for the elderly, school and, not least, research, innovation and infrastructure investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1523	The debate on substance is closed. So 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1537	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1551	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1565	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1580	No one has asked for the floor. Before we call voting, Trond Giske will convey 12 royal propositions. State Council Trond Giske exceeded 12 kg. propositions [[see Unit]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1592	Before we go to voting, the President will draw attention to the fact that there have been displacements on the Hordaland bench while we were going to put the meeting to voting. This is because the representative Per Rune Henriksen has once again taken up his seat in Stortinget – a former State Secretary who has now moved up to the Grandfather.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1633	The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1646	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party and the Right will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1660	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1787	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1797	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1805	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on popular security, the following changes are made: the third sentence of Section 14-9, fifth paragraph, is replaced by the following: Except for division, 10 weeks are also reserved for the danger [[Mother's quota]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1921	It is votered over I, § 14-9 first and second paragraphs. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1936	The third sentence of the fifth paragraph of Section 14-9 and the first sentence of the first paragraph of Section 14-12 shall then be deleted. Here the Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1950	It is then added over II. The Advance Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1964	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1978	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e1986	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1 and 2, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the termination of the Norwegian Cultural Council and its underlying entities in their present form, and a subsequent establishment of a new Council for a Living Cultural Life based on the intentions of Document 8:37 S [[2011-2012]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in the context of the State budget for 2014 to set up cultural funding in accordance with the principle that central actions are financed exclusively from the State budget, while the Norwegian Cultural Council/Council for a Living Cultural Life shall stimulate broad cultural participation through seed mentality, start-up incentives and the municipal sector.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e2079	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e2092	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e2106	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e2114	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward. That is proposal No. 1, from Tom Staahle on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to amend today’s uniform regulations in order to prevent the use of visible religious or political symbols as part of the Defence uniform.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e2127	The right has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e2140	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e2148	In the case of cases No. 8-11, is the second time dealing with legal issues. The President proposes that matters be dealt with together. - It is deemed to have been adopted. There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-05-07.ana.ud97e2399	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
