ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e24	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting, if necessary, will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16:00.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e38	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the debate will be divided into two sections, so that the budget chapters of the Ministry of Local Affairs and Modernisation, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Fisheries, and then the budget chapters of the Ministry of Justice and Civil Protection and the Ministry of Children, Equality and Inclusion, will be examined first. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee, the President will propose that part 1 of the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that speaking time in part 2 of the debate be limited to 1 hour and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Advance Party 15 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Left 5 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes and Environment Party Green 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that parts 1 and 2 of the debate give rise to a succession of up to five lines, with replies from the main speakers of each party group and up to six lines, with replies from the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e55	It is good to be allowed to start this important debate with a focus on the local economy and areas within the Municipal and Administrative Committee. Before I start using the large numbers, I would like to thank the Committee for its good work. This time it has been extra demanding, as we have received the last proposition later than usual. In addition, the Committee delivers more than usual, so that there are two factors that have made the Committee work faster than normal. But it's been great, the committee has done a good job, and it's been good cooperation. I would like to thank the members of the Committee for that, and I would also like to thank the Committee Secretary and others in the administration for their good help. When one is going to discuss municipal policy and economics, there are fast numbers – and large numbers. I'll try to talk at least about millions and as much as possible about people and show them the setting for details. It says all the numbers. In the introduction, I would like to say that it is also good to read both a government platform and an additional proposition that so clearly recognises the local self-government and that it is the municipalities that know best which priorities to do locally, and that the municipalities should be able to prioritise themselves. That's what I think is a good approximation. I also think it is very good that we can play local democracy well from this room, that we can make it possible for it to be rewarding to be local politicians through the decisions we make. So we're going to take care of one thing, and it's not creating unrealistic expectations in the municipalities. If we say from this pulpit and from Oslo that everything should be resolved in the municipalities, we create unrealistic expectations, and we make it difficult to be local politicians. I'm busy playing local democracy well, but not creating unrealistic expectations. We know that being a local politician can be challenging. KS presented yesterday a budget inquiry for the current year where a total of 60 pst. by the Norwegian municipalities, the presentation of the budget next year is becoming more demanding than it was in the previous year, and they point in particular to pensions and demography as challenges that make budgetary work more demanding. I also record from the same investigation that Norwegian advisers propose to increase the tax on ownership very quickly. In Norwegian municipalities this year, Norwegian councillors have proposed to increase ownership tax by 10 pst. I would like to remind you that there are other ways to drive more effectively than just increase taxes on property. I do not hope that Norwegian local government will follow Norwegian advisers to increase the property tax by 10 pst. Next year. When I read the budget statement that we are about to deal with today, there are two things that hit me: the only thing is that the Storting has been revitalized. It is now exciting to sit in a committee, and it is exciting to be on the Storting, because one can make changes. So it also strikes me that the new government delivers. I'm going to try to go through the different points -- given that the Storting is revitalized, we're going to see that the committee wants to raise some things. SIVA is an area where the Committee has proposed to increase, ranging from 87 to 92 million. kr in the setting. SIVA can then work with incubators and professional programs more easily. There is a project that helps founders. In my previous life as a spokesman, I followed SIVA closely and worked with SIVA through the incubator in Sunnhordland, Athens, and I see that facilitating business and incubator programs are things that work very well. What delights the Committee the most – or at least the majority in the Committee – I believe the Stortinget has put in place a solution for resource-requiring services. As a well-known Stoltenberg II government proposed to go away from the fact that the state would cover 80 pst. of the costs beyond the point of entry and reduce the compensation to 77,5 pst. There, the Storting of the Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Government Party have found a solution that will bring 214 million. kr has been brought back to the local government sector, so that overall the framework for the local government sector also increases after the Stortinge treatment. Thus, in relation to both the proposal from Stoltenberg II and the proposal from the Right-front party government, it is a budget after the Stortinge has seen its stamp on it, which is better for the municipal sector today. We also say in the setting that we are happy that the new government does not make the big dramatic changes in a few weeks. The local authority sector has a tradition of notifying early changes, so that municipalities have stable framework conditions, and this government has therefore proposed to pass on the facilities in place. But the committee, as the government, is clear that we should make changes in the future, and that one in the future should notify the changes that a person wants to see in good time. The Committee notes that, in the context of looking at future changes, one wishes to raise the issue of corporate tax. Being able to bring back values where they are created to the communities that create them is something that needs to be seen in the municipal proposition for 2015, which comes in May 2014. It is very important to have a link between where values are created and where they remain in the community. Tax morals are better if one company sees that the money is left in the community to school, kindergarten, sports facilities, etc. than if everything is going to go into the Ministry of Finance. So we are pleased to see the government's proposal in that area, and we also stress that it is important to bring back the corporate tax where the jobs are, and not just where the head offices are. In addition, in the budget agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have 16 million. for mental health in municipalities. There the committee has done a slightly different disposal than in the financial setting, where one would put it on the framework of the municipalities. We believe that the 16 million will be better off if there is an incentive scheme that can go to organizations. In the setting, the Committee has named an organisation, MOT, which is a good example of an organisation working in many municipalities and working to contribute to what is just the goal of strengthening mental health and strengthening the areas in the municipalities. We want to create a fallback arrangement where MOT will be able to search and search. The local government's economy is also mentioned in the attitude. Here the government might make the biggest simple thing about a take on the seriousness of the signals we get when we're out traveling. When we hit business, that's one thing they say to us, everyone, and that's that we have to bet on transportation. I have never yet travelled to a company that has not said that transportation and roads and those things are important. Nor have I ever gone to a place where they say that regional developments in county administration are very important. No one has ever said that. Now the government makes the change that they take and reduce slightly the earmarked resources for regional development and bring the money back to the roads and transport in the counties, just what the business community is asking for when we're visiting. Now I've said a little bit about what the committee has done out of its own priorities, where one goes further, or where one is clear in the setting. The government is also delivering. One is clear what one wants. In the proposition, there are two areas that have been raised as special areas in review. One is community reform. There's one saying that one should come back with carrots in the municipal proposition in relation to getting reformed. It's going to be an exciting job, where the committee will have a very important responsibility. In addition, one raises growth municipalities and the problem that the municipalities have, specifically in the additional proposition that came. Specifies one to watch the time at which the countdown should start. Today, a population census is made on 1 July of the previous year, so that the municipalities that are experiencing great growth will not be counted out in the income system for the inhabitants until perhaps up to one year after they have moved to the municipality. It is a major challenge for municipalities to provide services to citizens from one day to another. My first visit as committee leader in a municipality was to the municipality of Sandne in Rogaland. They have great challenges, along with many others. The so-called "growth municipality" that we have in the income system is only 61 million. kr for next year. Compares me with, for example, the small municipality bill, which is more than 900 million. kr, says that we have not recognised the municipalities of growth well enough. There's something we need to look closer to, and some government also tells them to look closer. It is nice to present a setting today that is good for Kommune-Noreg, and that is robust, where the Stortinge has also been able to prioritize and sip the prayer in some areas. So thank you so much!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e89	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e92	The representative Njåstad was about not to mention so many large numbers in his post, so I want to give him the opportunity to talk a little about large numbers. When Stortinget dealt with the municipal bill for 2014, the Progress Party went in order to strengthen the framework of the primary municipalities by 2.5 billion. kr. This promise drove the Party of Advances election fight across the whole country, but when the additional proposition was made, it disappeared in the blue. There was zero more in the free income of the primary municipalities. Then this fall we have become familiar with the 16.3 p.m. rule, where the Progress Party disclaims much of the responsibility for government policy. But what I'm asking is, can the representative Njåstad explain how 16.3 p.m. of 2.5 billion kr went to zero?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e101	It was an interesting calculation. I have to remind you that in this budget, there are essentially adjustments to the budget proposed by the Stoltenberg II Government. One cannot compare the parties' proposals in the municipal proposal with what one will deliver in the very first budget. And it's also not true that there's zero in growth for the municipalities. I said in my main post that next year the municipalities will experience more money than in the proposal of the Stoltenberg II administration, much because of resource-intensive users, where a 214 million in fresh funds will be added to the municipal scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e108	I think we're both concerned that municipalities need predictability and stable framework conditions. The representative, Njåstad, was in his post that one wanted to look at, among other things. the return of corporation tax. We also know that the Progress Party has been concerned with having less tax equalisation between rich and less rich municipalities. Many municipalities will lose on that conversion. Among other things, all the municipalities in Hedmark and Uppland will lose a lot on the conversion. I wonder, therefore, whether the representative of Njåstad can already say that these municipalities will experience cutbacks in 2015, and whether they should already prepare the reason that 2015 will be a year when they will have to cut off the service offer due to this conversion? Will the representative Njåstad notify it now, because the municipalities need predictability and stable framework conditions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e113	No, we are not notifying anything today in relation to what is going to happen in 2015. Now the 2014 budget is being discussed. In addition, the Committee would like to comment on what the government will look forward to in 2015, which will be presented in May 2014. It's a nice venue to notify the municipalities in good time about any changes or things that might happen. There is no time to notify. But then it's quite clear in the government platform that one wants communities to keep more of what's being created locally. Then it is the warning that one can give, that municipalities should facilitate the creation of values, facilitate business. Then it's not static which municipalities tend and lose on corporate tax. The municipalities that actively facilitate value creation and business will focus on corporate taxes in the future. It is perhaps the clearest thing we can do to ensure that the municipalities have to facilitate business. With this government's policy, it will lead to a larger income in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e122	The representative, Njåstad, was involved in a change in the municipal structure of his contribution and said that next year, in the municipal proposition, carrots would be added to the municipal pool. Can Njåstad confirm that there are only carrots and that there is no such thing as whipping? On previous occasions, the Progress Party has, among other things, the proposed removal of the small municipal subsidy. So I hope you can confirm that it's now about carrots, and that there's not going to be any heavy cuts in the economy of small municipalities, which makes it a coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e127	It's an economic, positive incentive, as it says in the supplementary proposition, as an announcement that one should figure out and look forward to the municipal proposition next year. When it comes to the soundness of this government's policies in relation to the community structure, one in the platform has said some things that are about to leave the values behind where they are created. But the wholeness of this must allow the government to come back to and propose for Stortinget in the municipal proposition for 2015 and perhaps also in later municipal propositions. It's important to get this done well and look at the health. Our main concern in relation to the municipal reform is that we try to get the municipalities on the team and let it become a reform that starts from below, and a reform that is primarily about tasks and not so much about drawing maps from Oslo or the department of detail. We're going to try to get a positive reform. That is what we want to invite the Stortinget to, and there have been several meetings already at the level of the parliamentary leader, so one wants to firmly anchor that process. It'll be a mistake today to be categorized about what the content is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e136	If Mr Greni wants a reply, she can have it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e140	Thank you, President. I got no answer as to what the Progress Party intended to do with the small municipal subsidy. Is it still the policy of the Progress Party that the small-scale grant should be abolished? Or can you confirm that we have abandoned that policy and that the small municipalities should be able to provide equivalent services with the large municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e147	We have not gone away from the policy that all municipalities should provide equivalent services and that all municipalities should be able to deliver good services to their inhabitants. Whether it's through a small community bill or through other schemes, we're going to come back to things. The small municipality bill is in the 2014 budget, which we are discussing today, and any changes will be announced in the future municipal proposals. The Progress Party is more dependent on other schemes than in one way or another to promote municipalities because they are small. Today's small community allowance is a bit special because if one is less than 3,200 inhabitants, you get about one. Five million. extra kr, or 10 mill. kr in North Norway, and if you have a limit, you get a zero. It's possible to look at other things, but we'll work together with our cooperation party in relation to the processes that are going to be. In this budget, small municipalities are firmly committed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e158	Yes, this was completely new tones from the Progress Party, which has previously swung around with both billions to the municipal sector and a lot of new rights that people should have. They are grounded as dew for the sun – both billions and rights. What's left, however, is a huge leap to the county councils of 430 million. to regional development, which was just to contribute to the new ideas and good solutions and economic development. In addition, the Progress Party also promises that they will pay for the redistribution of municipal income so that tax-weak municipalities will receive less money. The question is how to achieve this mix of smaller grants, where governments can cooperate with industry on development, and where even those municipalities with low incomes will improve on economic development with less income. Can the representative of Njåstad explain how this miracle is to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e165	I don't call it a miracle to create nutrition development. There's something that the nutritionists can do for themselves. The most important thing they expect from the public and from the municipality is not getting money from the county's nutrition department for regional development, the most important thing they ask us to do, is actually that we have a yes policy in the municipalities, that one facilitates land, and that one plays with business when they need to develop. This is what the industry is asking for, in addition to what I said in my main post, that they want better roads, better ferry services, more boat routes and better transportation. It delivers us from day one. We move some money from the county's regional division, which the county councillors in the budget also propose to reduce, and strengthen the transport budget, which will provide a basis for far more value creation than having a lot of money standing up for regional development. It's a trade that's the key to our development in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e172	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e175	Over the past few weeks before Christmas here on the Stortinget, we're going to make big and small choices that will affect the everyday life of the people around our country. There is a lot we agree on in this room, but there are also important things that separate the parts of the Stortinget, and that divide the hall into two. For the Workers' Party, freedom is for the individual, equal opportunities for all and for a strong community our leading stars in the road choices we're going to make. Therefore, we prioritise well-being for all rather than tax cuts to a few. Municipalities are responsible for some of our most important welfare services. Money is not everything, but you do not get away from the fact that the municipalities need money in order to give priority to kindergartens, schools and care for the elderly. The story after eight years with our government is that the transfers to the municipalities have increased, and that the municipalities have delivered: full kindergarten development, new school buildings and more sick homes. They have employed tens of thousands of new people, including thousands of new teachers. In addition, we can state that the economic situation in Norwegian municipalities is significantly better after eight years of red-green government. In May 2005, 116 municipalities, i.e. more than every fourth municipality, were in financial imbalance and were in the ROBEK register. Under the red-green government, the number of municipalities in ROBEK has remained historically low, between 40 and 50 municipalities. The Workers' Party will have a society for everyone, with equal opportunities for everyone. That's why it's so important for us to have a good welfare offer and a good school across the country, not just in the tax-rich municipalities. Therefore, it has also been important for us as we put in government to ensure a better balance of income between municipalities. Today we can say that the differences between municipalities are less now than they were eight years ago. If we do not balance tax revenue between municipalities, e.g.: between Bærum and Fredrikstad, the differences in the provision of services to the population will be very large. Because Berum has almost twice as high tax revenue per capita as Fredrikstad has. It goes without saying that without equalization, this difference in income would be very evident in kindergarten, in school and in care for the elderly. It is good for Norway that we have a redistribution of income between people and between municipalities. It is a very heavy contribution to Norway being the country in the world where the background of parents and where you are born means at least what you can become when you grow up. We want Norway to continue to be a society of small differences and great ambitions – ambitions on behalf of all children, ambitions on behalf of those who move here from other countries, ambitions for growth in all parts of the country and ambitions for all municipalities to be able to create a good school, a safe care for the elderly and modern solutions. The new government invests in the same growth in the free income of the primary municipalities as the previous government. Nevertheless, we can see that the bulk of the population chooses a different direction and weakens the welfare offer when they reverse and wind up several of the proposals made by the previous government. The government is sending an extra bill of 163 million. NOK to Norwegian parents who have children in kindergarten, when they increase the maximum price for parental payment compared to our proposal. In the election campaign, we heard that the Right promised a crew standard and better quality in kindergartens. On the right of the government, Norwegian municipalities are asked to cut the kindergarten offer by 344 million. NOK due to increased cash support. So we're going to have a reduced childcare allowance as a result of increased cash support. It is the freedom of choice that the Right Party and the Advance Party give to Norwegian young children's parents. They also put municipalities in a more difficult situation. The municipalities now have to take this offer down very quickly, as early as 1 January, although many of the future cash support children are still going to be in kindergarten when Christmas is over. In the election campaign, the Right also promised ongoing babysitting, while the Right in the Government removes our proposal to escalate against two babysitting in the municipality. The right created great expectations in many areas of the campaign. They've only been in government for a few weeks, but much of what they promised is already canceled. The progress party went further than most at most. In the debate on the municipal proposition for 2014, they not only promised more money to the municipalities, but the current government representative, now Secretary of State, Bård Hoksrud, also pointed to a aftermath on the county roads of 55 billion. kr. In the government, the Advance Party now provides 280 million. extra kr to the county roads. It will certainly produce the Progress Party as a big boost, but if we continue at this pace, the standard of Norwegian highways will be tip top about about. 200 years. Now this is not quite a healthy money either, because most of the county roads are being picked up by cutting regional development funds. It's money like, among other things, used for Innovation Norway, for travel life activities in the north and for conversion work. It is particularly unfortunate that these cuts come at a time of uncertainty about the Norwegian economy in the coming years, not least uncertainty for the export-oriented industry. In addition, when the government increases the use of oil money and cuts in the permitting legislation, many export-dependent communities are exposed to a vulnerable situation. I also notice that the government's rhetoric about stimulating growth where it is gives rise to results such as stopping the new health archive at Tynset, the Tromsø Center, and that when you want to streamline the Directorate of Economic Management, it is systematically cut at the smallest places, or even more precisely: except the largest cities. In the election campaign, the Labour Party pointed out that if the Right won the election, we would have a different distribution of funds between municipalities. We could, with a background in the Right, stand in the Storting in the last period, fearing that the Right would distribute the money in another way – that is, take money from the tax-deprived municipalities in order to give more to the tax-advanced municipalities. When the Right was confronted with this in the election campaign around the country, they did not spare the characteristics: this was bluff, horror propaganda and desperation on the part of the Workers' Party. Then came the election and the election result, and all of a sudden the right again became clear as to what they really mean. When we read both the government platform and the setting we handle today, there is little doubt that Norwegian municipalities still have reason to be concerned. The reason for less redistribution and greater differences is now being prepared, and this is to be addressed in the municipal proposition in 2015. Of course, we're going to follow that very closely. The first government budget is a budget for major differences between people and between different parts of the country. The attitude carries a bid that in the years that come more of the same will come from the government. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that the Workers' Party has been promoting with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e215	The representative Helga Pedersen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e220	I have a question for the representative Pedersen, because I listened with interest to the post concentrate on giving equal opportunities to everyone. It is important, and it is one of the pillars of local democracy and local government-Norway that we first need to help those who need resource-intensive services. To put it plainly, my question to the representative Pedersen is: how does this relate to, and how can it be explained that the Stoltenberg II government in its draft budget then just cuts 214 million. against those who need the most welfare society and who need the resource-intensive services?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e227	I thank you for the question. When our government submitted the budget for 2014, an adjustment was made to the Top Finance Facility for the particularly resource-intensive services. But it was based on the fact that those who use these services would receive the same offer. So there was no weakening of the offer. After all, I note that when the Right Party and the Advance Party presented their supplementary proposal, they supported the proposal of the Red-Green Government. Then I register that the civil parties have now returned this money to the municipal scheme. But at the same time, there are many other items, not least through the large babysitting system. So for the municipalities as a whole, there's less money available now than it was before. I also know that many – not least in the representative of the home country of Schous – have responded to the cuts made in the protection of children for lone minor asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e238	Justice is a concept that is not absolute in a way. And you can think about it from different positions. But what's a little interesting about the Workers' Party is that justice occurs at the tax rate on which the Workers' Party lands, at the tax base on which the Workers' Party is intended to be taxed, and at the point of entry for the Workers' Party's top tax. It would have been interesting to hear Helga Pedersen reflect, in the name of justice, around why you don't make the income systems of the municipalities completely symmetrical, that is. any municipality which has income above the average must redistribute all its income above the average. What justification will Helga Pedersen use for not doing so?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e245	Justice may not be an absolute concept, but it's a very important concept, and I'm very grateful for the invitation to discuss it. The basic approach of the Workers' Party to this issue is that both burdens and rights should be shared equally. That's why we think it's very unfair to do as the government does now, to grant 89 billion. kr in tax cut, there 40 pst. of the tax cuts, 4 pst. by the richest, while systematically cutting in the offer of families with children in this country, whether it is in the extra child-rescue supplement in the north or it is in the kindergarten offer in all the municipalities of this country. It's unfair. I feel that there is a broad approach in Norway to the principle of redistribution between those who have the most to those who have the least. I believe that this is an important principle both in terms of individuals and municipalities, because otherwise there would be crazy differences in the welfare offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e255	In this article, we heard, as we have heard for eight years, that the municipalities have a good framework and that the local economy has never been better. It was also said that since so many people are not on the ROBEK list, it is a robust municipal economy after eight years of red-green governance. That is why it is a little interesting to see the budgetary inquiry that KS presented yesterday, which is based on the Council's last draft budget with a red-green government budget at the bottom. There the councillors propose a large reduction of 1 pst. in net operating surplus – i.e. 1 pst. less frequent in the last year with red-green budget proposals. Then my question to the representative is: is it that rhetorical or is it the advisers there is something wrong with that that they suggest 1 pst. smaller operating result, when the rhetoric from the red-green is that the municipalities have it liberally? We also heard today that they are so liberal that they can still pay these resource-requiring services with the large cut of 2.5 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e264	We have many competent rapporteurs and advisers in Norway, and they have made use of the opportunities provided by the red-green government to expand their services. The welfare services provided by Norwegian municipalities today are both more comprehensive and in quality in many areas much better today than they were a few years ago. In addition, we can see that the economy in the municipalities is good. That is not to say that everything is good. I know that every municipality in this country needs to prioritise very carefully what you spend on the money for next year. This is why the Labour Party made choices precisely on prioritising municipal economy, school, health and elderly care rather than tax cuts. The Progress Party promised both sides – both tax cuts and well-being. But when we see that a choice had to be made through the budget for next year, the Progress Party chose 89 billion. kr in tax cuts and not the two additional billion of the municipalities promised before the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e271	The representative replied to Mr Schou's reply about resource-intensive users, where she assumed that the services would be followed up by the municipalities, regardless of the large cut of 214 million. kr. In the same reply she now says that the Workers' Party then went to the election that they should give more to the municipalities. This is going to be pretty hollow, because this is conscious – knowingly and willfully, you're cutting 214 million. kr, which was the reason why resource-intensive users should have the same services. So, what the representative then says is that it's conscious of the Workers' Party that they've done a cut of 214 million. NOK which the municipalities had to cover. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e278	No, that's not right. In the setup we had, it was at the same time because you were going to spend 800 million. more on particularly resource-intensive services until next year. We put on the table a liberal municipal economy that was very well received in the municipal sector, as I perceived it. But I hear that the positioning parties here are trying to present it as if they have more money for the municipalities than the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have in our arrangement. That's wrong. You're just adding 214 million. kr to compensate for the particularly resource-intensive, but at the same time you do a cut of more than 300 million. kr in kindergartens, which the municipalities have to deal with from 1 January. It also cuts a number of other municipal welfare services through its budget line. Then it is important to remember that money for municipalities is important, but it is a tool for providing good welfare services to the inhabitants. And there we see cuts in many areas from the right hand parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e287	After eight years of red-green government, we are increasingly indebted in the municipalities. In my municipality it was the first year a very good year, I remember. The local economy was fairly liberal, and we started building alone and taking some measures. However, this has led to a debt burden for municipalities today of approx. 200 B.C.E. kr, and it rises and rises. At the same time, new reforms have been introduced to tackle municipalities, and we see that municipalities are very vulnerable to interest rate increases. As the representative just said, there is no more money to spend – no matter what colour the government has. My question is, what medicine had the Workers' Party now intended to bring down the municipal debt? It is the one that is vulnerable and has an increasing percentage of the total operating budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e294	The representative Tuskedal is a very important topic that we have to follow very closely on from Stortinget's side. I want to point out three things that I think are very important in that context. Firstly, it is a requirement for the government to conduct a responsible economic policy. Therefore, it was both disappointing and surprising that the Right Party and the Advance Party on the first occasion increased the use of oil money, despite the fact that they said before the elections that less oil money should be used and that they should be used in a different way. Economic policy is defensive number one to ensure that municipalities don't get an interest bill they didn't expect. Our answer number two is a good community economy. Thirdly, I would like to say that we will follow very closely how the increase in the interest rate on the house bank is affecting the municipalities and investments in, among other things. nursing homes and homes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e307	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e310	This debate we have chosen to divide into two. I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation during a quick examination. The debate we have today is a debate that extends from the local economy, asylum policy and integration policy to the Husbank – just to mention something. I am very pleased that we have received a government that is in charge of a new course, that, unlike the pastors, we are able to give priority to the most important issues, and that we are already making changes in this budget that strengthen the sustainability of the whole country and ensure the well-being of the individual. The voters have shown us confidence by giving the Storting a historically bourgeois majority and thus also a mandate to implement the policy we promised before the elections. Unlike the previous government, I am pleased that we are taking new and modern steps, that we are able to prioritise, that we are implementing promises, and that we are also giving trust back to the individual human beings and communities. The municipalities form the core wall of local democracy by being the foundation of the People's Rule and represent the proximity, belonging and ability to influence the population. Norway faces a number of welfare challenges affecting municipalities both directly and indirectly. Under the red-green conditions, municipalities have been bound by the increase in individual rights in more and more areas. The municipalities are also directly affected by, among others. ageing of the population — through an increased need for municipal services in this area. This is economically challenging. Individuals and communities shall have great freedom to take decisions relating to themselves. The local People's Rule ensures closeness between elected and elected peoples and contributes to co-determination, freedom and also to belonging. The key issue today is whether the ability of the municipal sector to perform its tasks in the best interests of its citizens is best strengthened by stronger state governance or by stronger municipal autonomy and greater equivalence between the municipal sector and the state. Under the red-green government, municipalities and county councils have been given more and more statutory tasks without the funding being included. This promised Right that we would turn around, and we have started that already in this budget. In the future, it will be important to continue this liberation of the municipalities from the state. However, the most important freedom for municipalities is the freedom to provide good enough services and freedom for local adaptation. There is a need for a reform of democracy, a reform of trust. It's about what the municipalities can do, they should also have the opportunity to do. It is about moving tasks from state, county and county to municipality. This is a reform that is about strengthening democracy, but it is also about a reform where the tasks are moved and changed. This is a process that I am pleased to see that the Council of State is here today, Councillor Sanner, and the government has started. The draft budget for 2014 provides a robust and predictable framework for the municipal sector. The growth of free income is higher than in the proposal of the Government of Stoltenberg II. In addition to the growth of free income, the government proposes a number of changes and re-priorities, including: at school and kindergarten. The government wants to increase the county roads investment and increase the framework for upgrading and renewal of county roads by 280 million. kr. It cannot be surprising that we are changing the regional development funds in the county and are doing exactly what we promised in elections: that it should go to asphalt and roadway. That's what this budget is also adding up to. We are committed to putting people ahead of the systems – as opposed to the previous government that had a hang of old-fashioned solutions and little will for renewal. The right is dedicated to giving each person greater freedom to govern his or her own life without interference from politicians and bureaucrats. We want to give the people back a real experience that the central authorities and we, as the supreme decision-making body, have confidence in the individual, in the individual and in the community. This is about trust. It has confidence that it liberates energy and power – and gives more contentment to individuals. Generally, in Norwegian society, we have great confidence in decision-makers and decision-making bodies. Then, as elected representatives, we need to do just that: give confidence back.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e352	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e355	In the opinion of the Municipal Committee, the Right and the Advance Party rightly point out that, especially in the major cities and areas around it, there will be a large population growth and the need for large housing. When the Stortinget decided in 1992 to move the main airport from Fornebu, it was assumed that more than 10,000 homes would be built there, which would give a population of the size of Lillehammer. It's close to the sea, with nice location and with the possibility of good collective solutions if you got a good enough population concentration. Those who owned the plot were the state and the municipality of Oslo. The municipality of Bærum, which was the regulatory authority, made up to a low level of use – only approx. half of what the Storting had wanted and laid down. After the directive by the Ministry of the Environment, the number was pushed up to 6,000, but both Stortinget and the Municipality of Oslo have committed themselves to building more dwellings. A majority of the Committee has taken this up in a note and the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre have also made a proposal to initiate a process for more housing in this area. Why do not the Right agree with that comment?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e364	I'm familiar with representative Bohemia's commitment to getting more homes in the central part of Oslo, and I share that priority and value. What we're concerned about, and I see the government is concerned about, is that much more should be done in order for municipalities themselves to take initiatives in housing. It's about creating more land, bringing more power and authority back to the municipalities and simplifying processes around applying for an opportunity to use land just for housing development. It's a different relationship, too, and it's that city and country have to be seen together. Seeing living and working regions as a whole is more about including the surroundings around Oslo, which I understand the representative Boehler is concerned about, more than just looking at the Groruddalen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e372	I fully agree with seeing the metropolitan area, and also other metropolitan regions, in the context. According to the forecasts, Oslo–Akershus will have two million inhabitants and a very large growth once after 2035. It will require a few hundred thousand more dwellings in the same period. It is obvious that comprehensive joint planning of collective and commercial solutions, land development and industrial development is needed in order to create adequate housing and jobs and meet the challenges of higher education in the area, etc. When the government parties then announced in the supplementary proposal that they would work with a municipal reform and use funds for this next year, I would like to ask the representative if he would not also like to participate in municipal and county reform in the metropolitan areas and not only in the counties with the small municipalities – but that one, for example. should give priority to new solutions for the capital area, which have been explored five times since the 1960s.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e379	I have to say that I very much share the representative of Bohemia's commitment to big cities. What I might wish for is that you can also see more than Oslo and Akershus. There are big cities in the country, and I would say that in the case of Oslo, I would probably include more counties than just Oslo and Akershus. I think it is important to now in the announced democratic reform – in the task reform, where one has to ask oneself whether one is large enough or small enough to do the tasks – also have to have a holistic approach to infrastructure and housing and work areas, so that it is made possible not only to live but also to work in big cities, and that transport, school and regional planning become a major part of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e386	The government says in its political platform that it will ‘strengthen the growth force where it is’, i.e. where there is the most growth per day. The majority repeat this in the Committee's budgetary configuration. Until now, district policy has been aimed at generating growth across the country in order to counter the centralisation of value creation, jobs and housing. The budgetary agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party is strongly rooted in regional policy instruments and in the instruments of the district industries. Now all the changes in the budget point towards centralisation. Previously, the Right shared our goal of growth and settlement across the country. Why is it that the Right no longer wants an active district policy that will maintain the pattern of residence and give growth throughout the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e395	I want to say that this is wrong. We want growth across the country. We want an active settlement in both the city and the village. I have a lot of experience both in county policy and in municipal policy, and in contact with the business community in small communities, there is just a demand for better and more infrastructure. It may hardly surprise anyone that the Right and the new government are doing exactly what we have said we should do: add money to infrastructure, to more roads, more asphalt, so that it is possible to live in both the countryside and the countryside and work more centrally – and vice versa. That's what we're doing. In addition, SIVA strengthens the development funds. But the business community, the small towns, just demand the opportunity to get there with the timber transport, and then road and asphalt are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e402	I hear the representative Schou says that they still believe that we should have an active district policy, and that city and country should be seen together. That's why it's very worrying when what you do works in the opposite direction. It is true that the county roads are strengthened, but almost twice as much is taken from the regional policy instruments. So if you really wanted local freedom for this, you could leave the money behind and ask the county councils to give priority to whether they would have the money to go or to regional development in other areas they're cooperating with business. At least the business community tells us that they're very critical of these cuts. The second is that there is a wide variation in the tax base. When this government then announces that the rich municipalities will retain more and that the tax-deprived municipalities will get less, I ask the representative Schou to explain how it can contribute to the creation of jobs and equivalent offers in all municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e411	I would like to invite Andersen's representative to take a look at the county budgets. I am in the new county and myself and I am following the county policy very well, and I can promise the House that a number of these regional policy instruments will probably not go to industrial activities. There is a lot of other fun and a lot of other good things, but when we say that regional policy instruments should actually be given priority to industrial activities, it is precisely because we want to invest in district policy. So in elections, people have agreed with us that the means we're going to prioritize are going to be exactly asphalt and roadway. This is what the business community is asking for, it is District Norway also asking for: to get an infrastructure that makes it possible to establish a business, to have employment, to get to and from work in a decent way and – not least – that the timber comes from Hedmark and to Saugbrugs in Halden.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e418	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e421	As new in this room with 20-30 years of municipal policy in the back, this has been very interesting, instructive and meaningful. But, as a municipal politician, the challenges of getting the ends to meet are very quickly felt on the body. The municipal budget is to be unloaded in the harbour every fall, and when you are in position, it is a great responsibility to get it done. A mark quickly on the body frustration over more and more statutory tasks that bind money that municipalities themselves want to use to manage their services, and it is often depressing to get new politicians who feel that they just have to join in and cut down instead of prioritising. At the same time, it is vital that basic public welfare services and decisions are made as closely as possible to the population. It's the local authorities, the administrations and the residents who know best where the shoe prints. Norway is a long-distance country with many different municipalities. At the same time, residents should choose where they want to live, and there should be equivalent living conditions throughout the country. It is therefore essential that the income system takes account of this inequality and ensures predictability, brittleness and good welfare services irrespective of the size of the municipality. In recent years, more and more tasks have been assigned to municipalities without adequate funding. This has created a gap between the expectations of the population of welfare goods and the economic space of the municipalities. Therefore, the State must essentially govern through a framework in the future, so that the freedom of action of the municipalities increases and local democracy is strengthened. I'm worried about the local government's growing debt and maintenance kits. This is a result of a past tight economy in which municipalities have actually used debt financing also for operation. The net debt has increased further in 2012 to a net debt of 44 pst. of the revenue of the sector. In comparison, it was only 10 pst. in the years 1997 to 2000. About 200 billion. SEK of the total long-term debt is thus taxed on the budgets and accounts of the local government sector. The high level of debt makes the community sector very vulnerable to interest rate increase. This, combined with the large pension premium deviation, worries me about the situation in the local economy, and I expect the government to follow closely the situation to prevent economic difficulties for parts of the local government sector. Several municipalities may benefit from joining together. At the same time, it is essential that the process be stimulated by good, local cooperation solutions focusing on local democracy, good services for citizens, robust trade unions and well-functioning entities. The Christian People's Party also wants larger and more powerful regions than today's counties. Major regions will allow for more tasks to be seen in context and decided locally or regionally. However, reforms and major changes, which need to be introduced in society, need to be investigated in advance, so that the impact before implementation is realised, and that municipalities and county councils are notified, so that the service provision can be maintained and improved. Towards the end, I would say that in the Christian People's Party we want a viable local democracy that has both power of action and autonomy, which I believe the municipalities and county councils have already shown. At the same time, we see that there are areas of service which are not well adapted to the region and which can be improved by the reform of local authorities and democracy. The Christian People's Party sees that in recent years there have been more and more tasks that have been done to the municipalities, and the municipalities are left with the bill and are going to pay this in the service offer to their citizens. I expect the new government, at the Right and Advance Party, to actually give us new ideas and better solutions that we can decide on. I expect, for example, more full funding, more use of framework transfers and opportunities for strengthened local democracy and self-government, and the Christian People's Party will contribute to this. We think the municipality of Norway deserves that. It deserves the people, it deserves our children, our work and business, and our elderly and those who need extra help.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e440	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e443	When the Christian People's Party has now negotiated and agreed – and seems satisfied with – to draw 344 million municipalities. kr in the framework of an increase in cash support of 199 million. kr, does the Christian People's Party see that this is actually taking money away from the families of children? Then I wonder what documentation the Christian People's Party has so that the savings for the municipalities actually amount to 344 million. NOK – by introducing an increased cash support costing 199 million. Do you really want to delete this item?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e450	The Christian People's Party has repeatedly complained about poor local economy, and it is clear – how can one be involved in this? In the case of cash support, this is a misguided policy on our part. It is a matter of priority; we believe that freedom of choice for families is the most important thing. Otherwise, we believe that we are now adding more money in the area of drugs, psychiatry and the housing programme that exists. We believe that the municipalities now have the same economy as they had before. And to use a different working party expression, we're going to continue at least this year a relatively rough rate where there's little change in the total municipal accounts. And then we'll see what we can do to contribute to the future. At least our primary desire is to strengthen the local economy – where people live.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e458	I record that the municipality is believed to be strengthened in the fields of drugs and psychiatry. I see that you draw in the frame and ear tags without adding extra money – except for the 16 million that would go to non-governmental organisations. In his statement – and in his line of words with the representative Helga Pedersen – the representative Tuskedal was very concerned about the municipal debt. That's good, we should be, but does the representative Tuskedal think that with the cuts that are now actually being carried out within the municipalities, the municipalities will be better able to service their debt?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e465	I mean, with the cuts being made now, it's a change of priorities. One can choose to call it cut. We choose to call it change in priority, which is more in line with what we believe in. Then we believe that in addition to that change, we actually have – as you mentioned quite correctly – given a VAT compensation to the voluntary life that is quite significant, and we believe that it must be involved in the service provision and be involved in the involvement of society. It may need to be stimulated more than before in order to get this done – and there we have added 250 million. kr. So overall – and this was something KS also provided in an orientation we got – the economic situation in municipalities is equal in 2013 and 2014, among other things. because the change in the VAT refund scheme will make it so that municipalities have about the same situation to the next year as they have this year, but a little more in our direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e474	Less money is cut – no matter how you turn it and turn it around. I just want to draw attention to the fact that in the municipal framework of the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, this is 570 million. kr more than is now from the government supported by the Christian People's Party. But I would like to ask the representative Tuskedal if the direction we are now seeing, because many of the municipalities that are struggling, as Tuskedal describes, are low-income municipalities. Many of the low-income municipalities can now look forward to the municipal structure that the Right and the Advance Party warn, namely that they will lose money because the high-income municipalities will retain more of the income in question. I know that Tuskedal is concerned, among other things. evolutionary, child-restraint and disadvantaged people in need of social assistance. How does he understand that the rights of these people are to be guaranteed with a municipal economy where the most struggling municipalities are to receive less money?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e486	Then I think it's very important to look at what has brought the municipalities up in this situation over the last few years. They have increased debt, as I've pointed out, we have a more difficult pension situation, it's been cut in budget, and there's been pretty tight out there in the municipalities. We want to change this, but we want to twist it in the direction that we believe in. In the case of minimum income, or small municipalities struggling with services, the Christian People's Party's sincere desire is that municipalities should be able to offer the same service to their inhabitants – whether from small or large municipalities. We will continue to work on this in our budget, but I am asking for understanding that we have 5.6 pst. election break-up, we are a small party, we have had a short period of time, and it is a whole in the budgetary assessment, but we hope to come back strongly in 2015!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e493	I record that the representative from the Christian People's Party is asking for mercy because they have had a low turnout. Now the representative did not sit here in the last period, as the SV was also a small party in government and who did not exactly experience so much mercy from someone when we might not be able to satisfy 100 percent at all our wishes. But don't do that. What I do not think the representative Tskedal responded to was whether he agrees with the Progress Party and the Right in what they now write in comments and in their statement, namely that the high-income municipalities should retain more of their own income – it is true that the redistribution of the tax-impaired municipalities must be made worse. Does he agree with this direction of the local economy, or does the Christian People's Party disagree that we need to distribute less?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e500	Yes, I thank you for a little deepening of the term of grace. That was interesting! As far as the local economy is concerned, it is clear that we want to fight for a level playing field in large and small municipalities. As far as redistribution is concerned, the redistribution does not necessarily have to mean that the service provision is getting better in the major municipalities, as you mention, and at that point perhaps the Christian People's Party has a more nuanced view than what the Right Party and the Advance Party show. That's why we're a separate party that fights to make it equal in large and small municipalities, and then we'll see what's going on in 2015. I do not want to advance anything there, but I suggest that we believe that the service offer should be similar in large and small municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e507	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e510	The centre party is concerned that everyone in Norway should have as much equivalent education, kindergarten, care and social services as possible, irrespective of where they live in the country. I also thought that many other parties agreed with us. It is the municipalities that provide the services and the equivalence of the service provision requires equivalence in a financial framework. In order to ensure a fairer distribution of income and greater predictability for municipalities, the Red-Green Government implemented several measures to ensure cohesion between municipalities. The proportion of municipal income derived from taxes was reduced from 50 pst. to 40 pst. and the level of tax equalisation increased from 55 pst. to 60 pst. In addition, municipal corporation tax was abolished. There is good reason to be concerned about future developments when the Solberg government of the platform promises to reverse cohesion policy. The government will allow each municipality to retain more of its tax revenue and the municipal share of the corporation tax will be reintroduced. Rich municipalities will become richer, and poor municipalities will become poorer. In addition, the platform states that the government will strengthen the economy of growth municipalities. These are strong instruments to increase centralisation in Norway. In addition, the Progress Party has promised to remove the small municipal subsidy. Fortunately, there's nothing on the platform about that. In this year's budget, the redistribution of municipalities is limited, but I'm afraid we can go years to meet where proposals are being made that increase the differences in service provision to people depending on where they live in the country. It's a big regret. I'm excited about how far the government's partners in the Storting will go in accepting increased differences between people in poor and rich municipalities. That was not what the Christian People's Party and the Left talked about in the election campaign, as far as I remember. The representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party express in their comments to the municipal budget that the municipalities are the foundation wall of Norwegian democracy, and that they are positive that the government of Solberg will strengthen local democracy by shifting power and responsibility to the municipalities. However, the reality is that the earmarked share rises through the budgetary changes made, compared to the original proposal. The government is supported to draw 343 million. out of the framework transfers to municipalities to establish an earmarked grant for the care of drug users. As you know, the earmarking of money for drug work in the municipalities was included in the framework grant to the municipalities when the plan of action was completed. Today, municipalities are spending far more than 343 million. kr for actions in this area. It is difficult to understand that this is a form of earring that will have real significance for strengthening in the field. If the aim is to strengthen care, there is a need for fresh resources — not re-use of what has already been granted. The government says that it has not been able to allow its political platform to shape the entire budget, but the signs are still clear and unambiguous. All proposed changes compared to the red-green government budget have a clear centralisation effect. This is particularly true in industrial policy, which will be reflected in the location of jobs and housing in the next round. The centralisation of settlements and jobs is obviously a misguided development of this government. No one should be surprised that the Central Party will be an active and energetic opponent of the government's regional and district policies – or rather its lack of them. In 2012, 300 municipalities had population growth. There are 101 more municipalities than when we took over the government responsibility in 2005. We would have liked an even better development, but now it's a wild policy from the new government that centralization is going to be as fast as possible. The government receives support from the majority to reduce regional policy resources for development and innovation through the counties by 430 million. kr. Significant cuts are also being made in the framework of Innovation Norway, tourism development, SIVA, agriculture and fisheries. In other words, no help for entrepreneurs with new ideas and new solutions. It is disappointing that the Christian People's Party and the Left join these cuts. The majority also agree with the government's proposal to cut out appropriations for the Bolyst programme. The aim of this programme is to facilitate the mobility of municipalities within the area of regional policy. The main focus of supported projects is the migration and integration of migrants. Good integration into the community is considered by all parties essential for successful integration. So measures that have been very successful in promoting integration are no longer to be taken. Understand the one who can.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e546	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e549	There's a lot you can do here, but I want to get into what the Center Party did in the election campaign. It was then said many times from the Center Party that Right wants to remove the small municipal supplement, and that when Right wants to remove the wealth tax, it will go beyond the income base of the municipalities and lead to a change in the income system of the municipalities. Now we've got a municipal arrangement from the new government that doesn't do anything about these points. In my home country, Sogn and Fjordane, the Center Party went out with a written note that showed that, for example, Vågsø Municipality would lose $24 million. On the Right, its new municipal economic policy. Now we see that none of this is true. The error information that the Center Party brought to the voters in the election campaign was actually not correct. My question to Greni is: Will she regret the allegations made by local centre parties when it comes to Right's municipal economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e560	I see absolutely no reason to complain about this – especially when you see the signals that have come here today, that the revenue imbalance is to be reversed in the municipal bill and the budget next year. There is a clear signal that what was called terror propaganda in the election campaign will be realised – not in the current budget, but in the 2015 budget. I don't know the numbers for your home country, but at least I know the numbers for the South Tree Team. Only for Trondheim municipality will it amount to 30 million. NOK in cut, and for my municipality of residence with 2,000 inhabitants, it will amount to 5 million. kr i k cut. It's very dramatic, and I see no reason to regret what we said in the election campaign, because this is being realized, but it's being realized a year later than what we feared.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e568	It's almost tempting to ask if we're missing some pages in our settings where it says about everything that's going to happen next year, that we haven't read, but that the representative Greni has clearly read. There is nothing in the setting to look at the income bias between municipalities already next year. But what I'm drawing to a line is this with equivalency when it relates to income in the municipalities. That sounds a little bit touching, that today everything is fair, and that through the system that we've had in the last eight years, it's equal income in all municipalities. But that's not right. There are elements in the funding of municipalities that are not fair and that are not smoothed out. Municipalities with high incomes linked to property taxes or hydropower have retained large incomes other than income blending. My question is: Does the Center Party and the representative Greni mean that today's system of intercommunities is the only right, or is it possible to make improvements and changes even in the case of intercommunities?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e577	I have not said that today's system is the only right one. But the changes that have been notified are not something I have invented. This was confirmed, inter alia. by the Right Spokesman, when we discussed the municipal proposition here in the Chamber. It was confirmed that they would reverse the income system and the income balance, and then it is not possible to say that there is something I have found. These are percentages that the government parties themselves have confirmed. Today's system is not the only one. There's room for small improvements. As the representative was inside today, there should perhaps be a moving transition in the case of the small municipal grant, and that one could look at the possibilities of the municipalities that have five inhabitants for many to receive the small municipal grant. But the change now announced will have dramatic consequences for the ability to deliver equivalent services in all municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e586	After listening to the representative, Mr. Greni, it's almost as if we didn't think we were done with 1349 and the Black Death, because that's actually not what came after either. What surprises me a little, and that comes from the same party that is so busy with housing and not least of telling me how good it is to live in the districts – I myself live in the district – is: does not the representative Greni believe that the rhetoric that the Center Party at any time is making is helping to create the opposite, fear of moving back to the districts, when she says that this entry point will be changed next year, and if it doesn't happen then it will probably happen the year after? Doesn't the representative of Mr. Greni see that the Central Party is now helping to create fear and not to live in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e595	With regard to the reversal of income bias, many people have the same opinion that the representative clearly has, that there is something that only affects district municipalities and that makes the city municipalities serve. That arrangement is not affected in any way like that. If it is reversed, it will affect large municipalities like Trondheim municipality as much as it will affect small municipalities in the districts. In the South-Trøndelag state, which is my home state, 17 out of 19 municipalities will experience very great decline. The smallest municipality, Tidal Municipality, is probably the only one with a significant increase, because they get to keep the corporation tax because it's a municipality of power. It is nonsense that this has something to do with the district perspective. The centre party is the party that speaks the small municipalities the most, and if removing the Bolyst program and removing the funds that have gone to it will stimulate more people living in the districts, I'm a little tired of understanding that priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e602	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e605	First, I want to show that the Left has its own budget proposal that we promoted in the financial position, for which we did not get a majority. I further point out that we have reached an agreement on a settlement with the government parties and the Christian People's Party by forming a majority for this year's government budget. The public is completely dependent on the creation of value in private business. It is equally clear that business depends on a well-functioning public sector. In particular, good schools are necessary to enable Norwegian enterprises to assert themselves in the knowledge industry, and good childcare facilities are also important for participation in professional life. However, it is an objective that growth in public expenditure should be somewhat lower in the future. There is a great deal of effort in the public sector, on which we all depend, but the system needs to be reformed in order to improve services for citizens. Making use of new technologies in the public sector is part of this. Better coordination between administrative level and simplification is another. We must also challenge the public sector to compete more, both with itself and with others. We have a potential in the voluntary sector, which often has an idealistic goal and commitment that mobilises efforts. It is a major challenge for the public sector to grow ever larger and more extensive, and for state control and government tasks to continue to increase. Government, which is a large customer and orders, can contribute to a competition that strengthens and develops Norwegian services, producers and suppliers. A person must facilitate the wider use of electronic commerce, including in the public domain. During the next enlargement period, at least half of all public procurement should be made by electronic means and resources released to provide better services in countries, municipalities and counties. The public has a particular responsibility to facilitate the participation of people with disabilities or working disabilities in their professional lives, and the Left believes that the public sector must be far more ambitious in this field than is the case today. I would also like to mention something that I am pleased with from the negotiations in connection with the alternative budget of the Left, namely that we got the compensation rate up to 80 pst. This was part of the Left's budget to ensure a good service to the vulnerable users. This was important to get in place. If we hadn't managed to do this, it would have meant a cut for the municipalities. I think this should be mentioned given the black paint it has been partly. This is actually a positive rotation for the municipalities and not least for the users involved. Furthermore, I would like to point out that strong protection of individual privacy is essential, both for freedom and democracy. Freedom presupposes that we do not monitor people's private lives. The Government will present a proposal that takes account of those considerations. More and more of our everyday lives and the activities of private and public actors are happening online and through electronic communications. The development of new solutions is crucial. In the area of regional development, as said, the Left promoted another primary proposal. We are behind the government's proposal, which is a slightly larger cut than what was desirable for the Left, but we are well agreed that the way is one of the most important things in the districts. When we've been around and out in the districts – I've been in the county for several periods and know how important it is to contribute to value creation – there's no doubt that this is definitely one of the most accurate. Furthermore, I would also like to mention the role of SIVA. We've put in more money for SIVA than what was in the alternative budget. It's also important. It shows that when it comes to getting entrepreneurs and other businesses, in the districts and in the country, this is one of the most accurate things we have. I see, of course, that there will be little time when we only have one representative to talk about Left's policy in the Committee, but I also want to mention the location of new buildings for the Archives Central Depository at Tynset. In the opinion of the left, this is firm as it has been thought before, and we point to the proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e626	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e629	The representative of the Left also used this post to highlight the role of the Left as a party engaged in industrial development, value creation and entrepreneurs. The left, in its specific comments, makes visible the consequences of the proposed cut that the government of Solberg had in regional development funds and points out that the consequences of this – in the opinion of the Left – are too great. In its alternative budget, the Left presents a different and smaller cut. I believe there are two important dimensions to the cut in regional development funds. One is that it weakens industrial development and makes it more difficult for the states to play an active role. The second is that it has a district dimension when you cut 430 million. And then you just add 230 million. kr back to the road. I want to challenge the representative from the Left on this: what are the worst consequences of the cut proposed by the government of Solberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e638	The worst thing must be that we cannot spend more money on roads. It's a huge aftermath after the previous government. Everyone has to prioritize. There is no doubt that what has been the big issue in the districts has been delayed – the gift package – the previous government left the county municipalities few. We have seen that when we have to give priority, it has been right to give priority to spending more money on roads. Then I have to point out, because the representative of the Workers' Party does not say anything about it, that in the case of SIVA, the appropriations are increased significantly compared to the appropriations of the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e645	I wonder a little bit if that's all, the most important thing is to cut the road, and the worst thing is that you don't get priority on the way. Then I don't understand why the Left in its primary positions not only cuts the entire support, as suggested by the Right in the previous magnification period repeatedly. The representative can answer that if that is what is most important. The second question, on which the representative was also involved in his speech, is the strong belief in regional and local elected representatives. Regional development funds have just been an opportunity for regional elected representatives. It also shows that they can use judgement and assess what is right to give priority to their country and region in order to create more growth and development. When did the Left lose faith in the regional populace and get needed to start earmarking money – instead of having faith that they could create growth and development in their own country, based on their local knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e652	After two periods in the county, and having been in the local government since 1995, I have great faith in both local democracy and the regional level. But I also have great faith that we also need to assess how much bureaucracy we spend on this. As Vice-President before I came here, I just saw the bureaucracy that actually agreed to get money out of there. The positive thing, and it's the representative's right, is when you get partnership and interaction between the county council, municipalities and like an incubator, so that you get something out of it. But the use of bureaucracy that we do to get these funds out is far too big. It also points out the Left in its comments. If the representative from the Labour Party disagrees that more money should be spent on the road in the districts and believes that we should use them on other things, yes, then I hope the representative says so. But I disagree, I believe that some of the most accurate thing in the districts is building good infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e660	I don't think we should spend less money in the districts. This is precisely why we have also increased the means of road transport: we have put a historically high level of ambition into the national transport plan, and we have strengthened the funds for county roads. But we're not cutting off regional development funds. If the representative from the Left is so concerned about getting on the road, why not prioritize, in the county where the representative was sitting, all the means to get on the road – if that is the most accurate? The representative of the Left here underscores the fact that, in fact, there is a review of the regional link, what we are talking about in the celebrations – local freedom of action and local democracy. So you come to this room and you use the first opportunity to oversample and override the regional term that's so bad. What has been criticised by the Red-Green Government for many years is to say on the first occasion: that regional politicians do not know well enough. Why is it that the priority disappeared once you got in here?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e667	There'll be fast repetitions of the same thing over and over again. If you want to see this in a slightly larger context, it's interesting that it's the working party that's trying to point out that we want to label more. I have hardly experienced through my time as a local politician and regional politician which party is most concerned with ear tagging. It is also very special that the representative of course avoids talking about the gift package that went to the county councils, which was a sub-financing of the former highways – it is also a little special. Otherwise, the Left is constantly concerned with the local policy dimension, that decisions should be taken as close as possible to the population. We'll still be. Perhaps the Labour Party will get on that track – it is a little unknown to me – but at least we will be concerned that the decisions relating to local or regional policy are taken there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e674	Left will strengthen local democracy by shifting power from state to local elected bodies, says the party in a note. In addition, it says: ‘In addition, we will have a new municipal structure that provides larger municipalities with greater responsibilities than today, especially in welfare services and health care. This will allow treatment, care and care in the community.’ With reference to the desire to strengthen local democracy, I assume that the Left will reject all types of coercion of municipalities. Can the representative of Skelstad confirm this? So it is that earlier studies show that residents in small municipalities are more satisfied with the provision of care than do residents in general. Small municipalities are better placed to carry out the tasks they have received through the interaction reform than the larger municipalities. What studies can the representative of Skkelstad refer to, which substantiates the claim that larger municipalities provide better care and care?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e691	It was a major issue of democratic reform, or municipal reform, which the representative of Mr Greni will certainly call it. Of course, she doesn't say anything about the professional environments that you have a greater chance of getting into the larger units. This is no black-and-white. I think we have to have good processes. Through that, I also believe that the municipalities, even at today's level, will see that this will make sense. We also have to look at what tasks are going down to the different levels, but it's not going to come from the fact that today we have so extensive use of different ICS services that democracy is about to rot on very many places. I think we should have an open mind in this process. Of course, there will be some people who think this is going too fast, but I think we have to have the pace of this process to make it work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e696	I have to say that it is a bit fascinating to hear that the representative of Skkelstad is against earring, but now supports a government that has more eartags – there is a historically low level of eartaging after the red-greens have been in government – but it is a matter that Skkelstad sjl gets to explain. I think it might be even more fascinating that he, with such eagerness, defends the cut off of regional development funds, while making a flaming contribution to innovation and development in the field of technology. During the hearings, the industry organisation Abelia has sent a letter to the municipal committee warning against these cuts – precisely because it is cut in the areas that Skkelstad strongly advocates – and says that this will affect innovation and development strongly, especially in the companies. Is Abelia wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e703	In between, I must say, I wonder if the representative Karin Andersen heard what I said. If it's flashy when I say that the Left initially had a different entrance to cut in regional development – we did. And in negotiations – perhaps the representative Andersen knows more about me than I do, because the first thing I experienced when I came to this room in the last period was that there were many SVs who were out in the lawn and demonstrated against their own policies. It's not the Left's plan to do even if we're not in government, but we say that, after all, it's better that we get better infrastructure out in the districts, and we say that what's within the cut of regional development, maybe most of it's made by Møller's tran. But overall, I think this will be of better value than what was before.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e708	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e711	For SV, the municipal sector is very central, because it provides important welfare services to the population that are absolutely necessary, both for the individual and for the development of society. It is an incredibly important democratic arena, and not least that is the engine and prerequisite for job creation and business throughout the country. Modern business in Norway demands good schools. The demand for kindergartens that are there when parents need to be at work, on which they can be safe, at a price they can afford to pay. There is a demand for a cultural offer that makes it attractive to live in municipalities. The demand for exciting communities — where the proceedings are not slow. That's why it's so serious when the government now announces a completely different direction in the economic distribution to the municipalities. Many low-income municipalities are struggling with exactly what we talked about. It's serious for the individual, who may not get the follow-up you need when you're disabled or older or sick. It's serious for schools, which may not be able to follow up all the students in a good enough way, or it's due to cut in the appropriations for kindergartens and higher kindergarten prices. Thus, it is no longer intended to offer modern services at reasonable prices, but it is intended that the municipalities with high incomes should retain more of them. That means that the engine is shut down in many of the municipalities that had needed an extra lift. I and SV see that the growth municipalities have major challenges. That's absolutely right. That is why there is a grant for the municipality of growth. We believe it is more appropriate to discuss whether or not to increase this, without taking away the municipalities that are most struggling with the economy. There is nothing that will go better about these municipalities getting less money. They don't get any less nutritious either. And they're going to labor even more with all of the services that all of the games are up here and say are going to be just as good and equivalent across the country. I also register the following with some concern: I believe that the local authority sector should not have so much designation – but I am not as opposed to designation as very many others here – or to rights fixing. It's because I've been working on social policy issues for over 30 years, and I see who's losing the fight for the resources in the municipal budgets. It's the retarded. These are the people who have to go to Nav. It's the kids who need special education and don't get it. There are some of the sickest elders, who sometimes have to have a whole host of relatives and friends to get the rights they're going to have, because they can't claim their rights sail. That is why I believe that in some areas the rights must be strong and that they must be respected. Then we will have to discuss in which areas freedom should be greater. One of the key areas of the county councils is regional development. It may be that the county councils could have used this money in a freer way. There is no SV against discussing at all, but we are opposed to reducing the money. I think the county councils could have decided whether they would lay asphalt, or whether they would cooperate with the business community. What is critical is that you reduce the space for action by not having to decide it, or by making less money. That's not going to be good development. I also have to say that I am quite concerned about some of the signals from some parties in terms of housing, namely that you want to reverse the universal design requirements and the important energy requirements that we have put in to make the housing sector comply with its part of the climate agreement, and that people don't have to pay the shirt to keep their houses warm. Universal design means that society should be open to all, and that those who need adapted housing should also be able to choose freely. Finally, the Swedish Archives Central Depot and Norwegian Health Archives on Tynset. We have – together with the Workers' Party and the Centre – promoted a proposal in the Chamber today, because we believe that this matter has been worked on for so long. It was all set. There was a powerful government that would have this in place. This is a major investment in District Norway, with many jobs, a topic that has been discussed for many years, which has been impact-examined and where it has been concluded. I'm recording that this government is nodding. That is why we have made a concrete proposal today, which at least establishes the location.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e728	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e731	There has been a lot of discussion about economic space. KS presented a report in October. I'll quote the first sentence of this report: «Tross real growth in the free income of the municipal sector in recent years has not allowed for greater room for action for local politicians.» Then you can discuss different variants of action rooms. The red-greens would like to highlight that there have been fewer ear-marked substances. Yes, it's true that it's less of formal designation – it doesn't help much when government control is taken back in other ways. The question is: does the representative share Andersen KS's opinion that the action space for the municipal politicians did not increase under the red-green? Would SV be involved in increasing the local space of action by having less state control and detailed management of the local government sector, or would you like to continue that line – I understood that Karin Andersen was involved in its contribution – where you want to increase the state-level detailed management of the municipalities, while the economic space does not increase?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e744	I just want to remind the representative that the government he's a representative of, more than what we've done. What I pointed out in my post was that there are some people who depend on services from the local government sector, on which we have put responsibility. One example is child protection. We've had a child-restraint lift in the last few years. It's been absolutely necessary. Even though we increased the municipal economy, we saw that the funds were not used for the rescued kids, who really need someone to help them. We saw that responsibility that we from Stortingets had to take, and put a tag on this money. I have also seen that the municipalities with great enthusiasm have applied for this money, and that the child protection has therefore been strengthened. In some areas, we believe that we need government governance, especially to protect people who need equal rights, regardless of the municipality in which they live. But in the case of e.g. regional funds, we want to give greater freedom. Here I see that the Right – and this government – want to label and stamp what the money is for, for example. to asphalt.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e753	Thus, KS’s claim that the room for action of local politicians did not increase below the red-green ones is provisional. I have another question, which the representative Andersen himself was talking about, namely the health archive at Tynset. While there are some differences in the emphasis on this issue in the Committee, the majority ask the government to come back and confirm Tynset as a location, the final assessment after the external quality assurance indicates that it is correct. The red-green government added 75 million. NOK 800 million. kr project before the final KS2 was completed and evaluated. The question is: does the representative Andersen think this is good practice? Will the SV recommend that future governments also propose significant appropriations for the State budget before the final KS2 assessment is completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e762	I will recommend to future governments to show the power of action in such matters. When KS2 is almost finished and a KS1 has been clearly concluded that it is both economic and archival that it is right to collect the central repository and the health archive in one place – one has decided to do so – it is right to contribute money, so that it is possible to get started when KS2 is finished. Unfortunately, what is happening now is that this start-up will be delayed – hopefully – if it is not the case that some municipalities want to reverse this. I know all about the fight for the crowns when you finally add the budget, including in the case of investment funds. Therefore, it is important to put in place appropriations that allow you to get started when the project is finished – then you cannot stop it. There are also many other projects that want funding – there is a fight about the order of that list every year. I'm recording that that fight is reopened in terms of Tynset.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e769	My line owes Tynset. It was no surprise that Andersen's representative took up the Tynset, when one has read the comments and has seen the involvement in the matter. I'm a little concerned that one creates a little more insecurity by suspecting the motives of the multiples in the committee, which has a comment where one goes quite far in stating that after one – as always – has assessed KS2, a country should have a possible new building on Tynset. I don't quite understand why a problem attests to anything else and creates uncertainty about this. The representative Jensen stated that normal practice is that one should implement the KS2 before a decision is taken. My question is: does the representative Andersen agree that it is always wise to have a quality assurance 2 before making a decision?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e778	I notice that there is a very strange argument going on in this case, namely that one tries to put the responsibility for this possibly not happening, on those who have submitted proposals to the Stortingen regarding both the location decision and the allocation for start-up – and in addition, the allocation for starting a completely necessary education in the field of archives. It's going to be held at the University of Southern Trøndelag, but it's located, decentralised, to Tynset. This is not a work that is not quality assured. In Hedmark, at least no one in either the Right Party or the Advance Party has gone to the elections to say no, here we have to make a KS2 completely finished first – otherwise it has to be done in these days. No, everyone has even thought that the red-green government has spent too long on this, getting started. Then you go to the choice of being able to act, and the first thing you do is to use the power of action to then doubt one of the most important projects in District Norway. I'm disappointed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e783	My question to Andersen's representative is how SV is now, in front of the forthcoming municipal and democratic reform. I'm very excited about that, because we're dependent on as much cross-political work as possible to get a good process in this period, which may extend for a long time to come. The question is short and simple: Does SV believe that such a structural change is needed, and how has SV intended to contribute to that process?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e788	The most important thing for SV in this case has been that municipal pooling takes place on a voluntary basis. I feel that the Christian People's Party and SV are fully in agreement about this. There are many places in the country where it may make sense to consider community associations, perhaps especially around cities, where there are natural housing and work regions. What we want to warn against is the change in the local economy that this government simultaneously signals, that the low-income municipalities will have lower incomes, while the high-income municipalities will have higher incomes at the same time. It's also very important that when you go into such processes, you actually listen to what's happening locally, what they want, and you don't do it the way that municipalities lose their sense of belonging. It's incredibly important. We're now waiting for what the government is going to do. We are not least awaiting the initiatives that are now coming in many municipalities around the country, and we want to support positively around those who want municipal association.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e795	I initially didn't think to say anything – I thought it was clear enough about Tynset – but in my mind, of course, it's a prerequisite to make a thorough assessment of such a large cost. What is a little surprising is that the previous government said “go” before one had made it clear that one must also have a KS2. What is my question in this is: Karin Andersen is the former head of the Labour and Social Committee and has a strong commitment to those who often sit at the bottom of the table. I wonder if Karin Andersen is well pleased now that the Left, along with the government parties and the Christian People's Party, got a pass to reverse the unsocial cut previous government did in the case of resource-intensive users.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e802	First of all, the Tynset case: I have registered that the Left has been as shocked as the SV for the cut that has been made there, that they have tried to work well on the matter, and that, of course, we will vote in a subsidiary way on the proposal that Left has stood for as an architect, if our proposal were to fall. In the case of resource-intensive services, I believe the Left there has done a good job – I think you should be commended for that. But the local economy that the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV are now presenting is, in total, larger than the budget that the Left supports. The local government sector has a larger framework with the budget we are presenting than with the Left, but the rotation of the budget that is worse is better after the Left and Christian People's Party had their hand on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e809	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e812	It is an honour to take part in the Stortinget debate on municipal, regional and administrative policies. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the entire Cooperation Committee and to provide a good framework and exciting challenges for 2014. A special thanks to the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have contributed constructively to finding good majority solutions in next year's budget. In the Sundvolden platform and in the Declaration of Cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, a policy for increasing the spread of power is announced. We want a social development where there is more confidence in individuals, in voluntary organisations, in community communities and in entrepreneurs. Society shall be created and developed more from below and less detailed management from above. It provides both more diversity, less bureaucracy and greater implementation in the major policy projects. The Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is responsible for two major government projects. We're going to work systematically to create a simpler everyday life for most people. We need to simplify, renew and improve the public sector, both in order to ensure users of the Nav, health and care sectors or those related to the Planning and Building Act, faster and better assistance, and in order for public sector employees to have more time to perform important tasks. We are also engaged in the important work of strengthening local democracy. It is about more local self-determination and less state detail management, and it is about implementing a municipal reform that will provide fewer and more robust municipalities that can take on more tasks and more responsibility. The budget to be debated today is largely based on the proposals of the Stoltenberg II Government, but we have indicated a clear direction in our political priorities. We strengthen the municipalities, we revitalise regional policy, and we digitise important services. Municipal economy is important because it is important that citizens across the country receive a good service provision. The government contributes when we secure a real growth in the free income of 5.48 billion. kr – an increase of 280 million. kr in relation to the red-green budget. At the same time, I am concerned that we have an honest communication about local economy. Many local politicians are not familiar with the reality that has been created over the last eight years about how liberal local government budgets really are. I think we're on an honest communication. We know that there are many municipal politicians who will also meet tight budgets this year and who will have to make clear priorities for more efficient operation. The frames are robust, but they are also tight for many municipalities. In addition to the growth of free income, the government proposes a number of other priorities that are important for municipalities. The municipalities – and the students – will notice that we focus more on continuing training for teachers. The municipalities – and those in need of care – will notice that the government is making a commitment to public health. I notice that Helga Pedersen in his post says that the government's policy leads to greater differences, and in the change of lines says that the government cuts in important welfare services. I'm amazed at such an approach. In the government’s proposal, we ensure that those sitting at the bottom of the table, among others. drug users, are given ear-marked funds. We provide a stronger growth for people who face mental health challenges by strengthening the lowthreshold supply. We strengthen the supervision of child protection, and we provide better education for children in child protection. These are important measures to ensure that those who work the most are lifted. I also notice the debate on the income system. As the responsible state council, I have to say that I am sitting and listening a little amazemented at the contributions from both the centre party and SV in particular. I am a little uncertain as to whether the disappointment of the election defeat is still in place, or whether it is that these parties know something that the responsible state council does not know, because it is not that the government has announced dramatic changes in the income system. But the majority in Stortinget believe that municipalities should retain a share of the corporate tax, and we have announced a comprehensive review. This will mean that one must also consider whether there are conditions that affect smaller municipalities with less income. It is not that one side will ensure that tax-intensive municipalities come out better. We're notifying you of an overall review. I think everyone will stand by to see what the government is proposing before we draw the big dramatic picture. The government will pursue an offensive regional policy to ensure growth throughout Norway. The main instrument is good framework conditions for business, innovation and entrepreneurship. We want less state detail management, and we want more local action space. This must also be reflected in the policies and budgets. Therefore, we are shifting the instruments from state support to local growth. The State cannot adopt local development and believe that it can be realised through all possible support schemes. We need to give local communities the freedom to develop locally, we need to secure framework conditions and good growth opportunities – we need to make it possible to generate growth across the country. There has been a debate, and I noticed it also today, that county councils get a little less money for regional development, while they get more money for county roads – yes, until next year they get 780 million. kr extra to county roads in addition to an interest-rate compensation scheme. But what the opponents of innovation obviously haven't gotten, is that it's still going to be 1.2 billion. kr again to county, regional, development. We want to make sure that the money goes more to what they are going to do, that is, to give priority to business-oriented measures. The government also renews regional policy by pursuing a more active metropolitan policy. The cities and regions around them are connected and must work together. This is why we are strengthening the SME development programme as a regional growth force for all types of urban regions, including the major cities. In the process of creating a simpler everyday life, we will look for time thieves. We will remove unnecessary processes and procedures that steal time from both employees and residents. This is necessary both to ensure better public services and to equip us for increased needs in the future. In this work, digitisation is important. In order to simplify public services, the government is launching a digitisation package. Digitisation will eliminate duplication, free time and make public services more accessible to citizens and businesses. In this budget, we provide for digitisation by electronic word-finding in the Cartwork and by electronic application for housing support in the House Bank. These are important projects. For housing support, this will mean that municipalities will not use 50,000 hours each year to punch data, and 16 million paper sheets will disappear from the Cartel when this is digitised. Good governance and the implementation of a government depend on the competence of employees and the ability of managers to manage precisely. Strong professional competence and the development of the skills of employees are essential for good administration. Therefore, the government will develop new digital training programmes and establish a common learning platform for the distribution and sharing of training programmes. When the public sector works, so does society around it. Therefore, we need to impose requirements on public enterprises, for example: on how ministries and sectors cooperate and how they interact with others. This is important in order to make management more efficient with the necessary efficiency and performance orientation. To put it another way: a government that facilitates good public services and good practice has confidence in its citizens. Without taking care of this trust, we won't be able to solve the problems that are waiting. That is why we have to dry up reform and we have to dry out asking questions. That's what the government wants to change to preserve. We don't want to change, we want to change to improve the public sector. We've started the work. The results do not come overnight, but employees will notice that they will have more time to solve important tasks, and the population will notice that they will receive faster and better assistance through public services.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e851	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e854	The Council of State referred in so far as its staff were concerned. Of course, when we are going to develop the municipal services in the years to come, money is important, but you don't get a better school, more elderly care and good services if we don't have enough staff. We see that the municipalities are already struggling to recruit enough teachers, pre-school teachers, engineers and not least caregivers. Only within care do we know that by 2050 we must have about twice as many employees as we do today. And then you can mitigate that need by using digital solutions, well-being technologies, etc., but you can't escape the need for more people. Therefore, I am a little surprised that the Right now is involved in this attack on the line of work that increased cash support and reduced childcare services are. This will not least weaken the recruitment of all the services to be provided by the local government sector. Isn't that a concern of the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e863	The answer to that question is no. I'm not worried that families get more freedom of choice. This government thinks it's important. It is important that families decide more on how to organise their daily lives. It is not that the inhabitants are merely gears of public GDP. We are concerned that families should have freedom of choice. I think that is also important for the working line. It's a little surprising that after eight years, the Workers' Party suddenly makes the line of work its main argument and its main rhetoric. It should be borne in mind that the Right Party government, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, lowers the taxes on employee income. It will make working more profitable, and especially for those with low income. But here I think it's important that we have two thoughts in our head at the same time. We have to provide family freedom of choice, while making working more profitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e870	It is amazing that the Council of State presents its family arrangements as more freedom of choice for families with children. You add 199 million. kr for more cash support, and you cut over 300 million. kr in the kindergarten offer in the municipalities. Before the elections, better quality, standard of living and continuous attendance in kindergartens were promised – all that has been run away, and families with children are left with a lower offer, more expensive kindergartens. In addition, the additional child-restraint supplement is cut in the action zone. It gives less freedom of choice, and it's a breach of promise by the Right. In addition, this is also a shift in communication in another area, because before the election, the right-crystalline was clear on that workline, and that it would pay off to work. Now you are very stimulating the freedom of choice to choose cash support, but you are systematically attacking women's ability to combine work and family life. This also weakens the recruitment of labour – several thousand years of work – to both the private and public sectors. I'm amazed that the Council of State is taking it so easily.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e877	The representative Helga Pedersen takes very strong words in her mouth when she talks about systematic attacks on women's participation in professional life. The right to kindergarten is established. It is not the case that kindergarten places are becoming more expensive until next year than they are this year, but we do not support the red-green government's proposal to lower the nursery prices further. We actually think that people with good advice have the opportunity to pay $45 more per month for a nursery for next year. I would like to see that we have provided lower kindergarten prices for those who serve at least, for those who have the worst advice. It would be an important social reform. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have also announced that we will ensure that with the lowest incomes, they will receive a lower kindergarten prize. Then the government strengthens kindergartens by investing more in quality in kindergartens, and by also ensuring that the non-municipal kindergartens get better conditions next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e886	The housing situation is something many are concerned about, and there has been a priority case in the Right. In addition, Norway needs a constant renewal of the residential park. Now, however, we feel that many people cannot participate in getting a dwelling. There's a lot of reasons for that. More dwellings are needed; new family forms, lonely, immigrants, etc. makes us need a lot of housing. We also have high-cost areas here in the country that make people with general income almost unable to afford to live in these densely populated places. So that's a concern for this. Do we somehow get some sort of class division with those who can't participate in this in the market? So I'm wondering how the Council of State will help to get more people into the housing market?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e893	It's a good and important issue that affects a lot of different themes. My starting point is that in Norway we have a well-functioning housing market. There are often dramatic headlines when prices go up a little, and then there are dramatic headlines when prices go down a little – but basically the market is functioning well. But we have to make sure to simplify land-use planning and land-use legislation. That's what we're doing. There are many municipalities and urban areas that plan to expand, but where it all stops – you have to wait – because there are objections and because the projects are stopped. We want less government override. Then it's important to make sure that we have good organisation through the infrastructure – both in the city and by the track. The government is more committed to public transport and more in good cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left. In addition, it is important that we strengthen the BSU system. It also ensures that we make the next year — ensuring that young people can get into the housing market more easily by saving over a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e902	Following the conclusion of the budgetary agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the community subsidy to the municipalities is reduced by 344 million. kr. It is justified by an estimate of the savings made by municipalities as a result of fewer children's playgrounds, as the cash support increases by NOK 1000 per month. Reduced municipal income is only covered by reduced expenditure, if the estimate is set – if the expected number of families chooses not to take a nursery place rather than to receive cash support. Can the Council of State confirm that calculations have been made to show that the reduction in the population contribution corresponds to the corresponding reduction in the costs of the municipalities? And how will the Council of State monitor this in the event of any errors in the estimates regarding the use of nursery facilities? Will it then be followed up closely, and it will be compensated for, for example. in the revised national budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e909	It is not new that such calculations are made. Such calculations are carried out by the Ministry of Finance each year. Such calculations were also made in 2012, when the central party government removed the cash support for the two-year-olds and increased the cash support for the one-year-olds. At that time, estimates were made of the number of kindergartens that would be needed. It has also been done this year, but the central thing is that the right to a nursery place is a right that the parents have, and that is a right that the municipalities will of course follow up. So I don't think we should take all the concerns in advance. A lot of the posts here have the hallmark of being very, very concerned. We are dedicated to ensuring good services in the municipalities. Appropriations shall be made by any government in its calculations. It's also been done in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e916	After all, the members of the committee were now having a little debate about Tynset, and I could imagine hearing what the Council of State said about it. At least from the point of view of the majority of the Committee, there is a clear proposal that the location should be confirmed – as long as the KS2 and the assumption are established. So there's not a rematch here on the location -- something the opposition is trying to doubt?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e921	The government is dealing with the majority of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e927	I noticed the enthusiastic support for the project on Tynset as the Council of State just came along. I also notice that the Council of State does not see that the changes made by the government in relation to kindergartens and cash payments are intended for women to be at home and men to work. It is an effect of equality which this government has calculated and which, in any case, according to SV's opinion, is very worrying – not only in principle but also practical for recruiting. The council was also concerned with housing, and he said he is aware that he also has co-responsibility for the municipality's hub. I was very happy about that, because there is a need for attention – among other things. on housing, which is another central instrument for people with disabilities who need housing. There are many vacant plots that are clear but are not being built. The second is, does the Council of State think that people who are so disadvantaged that they need help from Nav to get housing benefit from BSU?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e936	No, and therefore, fortunately, we have different tools to ensure that different groups can get a home — a place to live. It's an engagement that I'm absolutely convinced is cross-political, and that concerns both us sitting on the Stortinget, and the municipalities. We are dedicated to making sure that people who are struggling have a place to live. We are also committed to having a good housing support system, so that support can be provided within the framework laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e941	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e944	After hearing State Council Sanner, I notice that we have received a government that believes that the country's richest cannot afford to pay so much in taxes. But the nursery prices are not to be taken into account, because small children's parents are to be able to afford to pay for kindergarten at the level it is today. For the Workers' Party, it is important that people actually have a real freedom to live where they want to. In order to achieve this, it is important for us to ensure equivalent living conditions and use resources throughout the country. People live mainly where they get a job. The Labour Party is committed to continuing the territorial policy promise we have made. We will strengthen local and regional growth rates in areas with low economic growth, in regions with a long distance from larger markets and in regions with a one-sided industrial structure. For us, it is important to ensure skills jobs spread across the country. We want an open economy with societally sensitive actors and an active public commitment. We will facilitate private economic operators in good framework conditions and predictability. However, the social objectives are the overall economic objectives of the enterprise. To achieve policy objectives, we will therefore use the public governance tools we have. If necessary, we will use international legislation and agreements, laws and regulations, support schemes, concessions, regulations and public purchases, operations and ownership. We want an interaction between business, the social partners, researchers and the public to develop an active Norwegian industrial policy. For us, that is the Norwegian model, and it has produced good results. In the last eight years, 350,000 new jobs have been created in this country. Two thirds of them have come into the private sector. This has contributed to the policy that has been pursued. The county councils have a central role as drivers and promoters to meet the challenges of regional development. The resources for regional development allocated to county councils over the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs are managed by the county councils themselves in the light of political priorities and regional plans in the county – developed in cooperation with other regional and local actors. Regional development is at the heart of promoting overall and desired social development in its own region. So you're going to cut 430 million. kri. So you say that the most important thing is the way, and then you add 230 million. kr of it back in road bet. It's going to be less money, it's going to be more government overgovernment, and it's going to be more bureaucracy. I see that the representative, Mr Schou, has a problem with the fact that the funds allocated to the post office do not go to business development. Yes, that's the whole purpose: to give the money to the county councils, so that they can spend it on what they think is right to create local growth. This means that Finnmark spends money on professional film programmes and support for entrepreneurial activities. In Troms, funds have been made available for stronger trade unions, industrial development, port facilities in the petroleum industry and identification of deposits and profitability in mining in mineral industries. Isn't that infrastructure? Is it not a business? In the Nordic countries, real-time training and engineering training have been strengthened. Isn't that important in Northland? Will that not contribute to a stronger business life? How does the government know that road is more important in Northern Ireland? In Sogn and Fjordane, considerable funds have been spent on broadband, but the government believes that the infrastructure is the most important. In Hordaland, 29 pst went. of the funds for infrastructure actions in 2012. But the government knows better, because they cut the state budget with 27 pst. and signifies means of transport. Akershus used the funds for entrepreneurship and innovation. They shouldn't have, because state roads are more important, according to the government. The counties have to hurry in 2014, because the government, with its power of action, will cut regional development funds completely when they get a full year of budgetary work. It is right-wing policy that has been announced in these four years, and it is right-wing policy that they have opted for. With the power of action they have announced, I expect that they also intend to keep their election promises. Then I heard that the representative Njåstad, the committee leader, believes that there is no public money business demand. It is possible that this is the case in the homelands of the representative of Njåstad, but in North Norway capital is a defect. We have had an arrangement with seed funds, where we have said that the state should match the crowns of private business. There has been no money from the private sector – there is just capital, support schemes to overcome barriers and establish an enterprise, which is also sought by the business community. This must be respected, and this must be borne in mind when preventing county councils from supporting regional and local development measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e965	For many years, few dwellings in Norway have been built. It has made it more difficult to enter the housing market for those who were then outside, and for those who are outside today. We must not be deceived into thinking that the decline in housing prices over the past few months and weeks will solve the problems. The red-green government has not delivered in this area, and now it is time for new ideas and better solutions. The right-wing Party government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, is ready to change the course away from a housing crisis. Population growth in the country is staggering. There is no exaggeration to assume that there will have to be the same number of dwellings in the next 20-30 years as in the last 100 years. However, in recent years 10 000 fewer dwellings have been built per year than are needed to meet population growth. This is because the lack of housing has not occurred in the last eight weeks, but in the last eight years. The legacy of the red-green government is a great slowdown in housing, over-management of local democracy in construction, and that people are now outside the housing market. The first signs of a housing crisis are seen when housing in particular increases in the price of large cities. This makes it difficult for young and newly established people to enter the housing market, and it gradually makes it difficult for some areas to attract labour, which in turn means that housing shortages act as a growth brake for both business and jobs. We have had a situation where as many as 22 agencies can put an end to one housing plan. Where the previous government allowed its pride to prevail, this government should give municipalities the opportunity to regulate a sufficient number of plots for housing purposes. In that case, the possibility of overrule local democracy by state and county authorities must be limited. The fact that housing policy management is now concentrated in the new Ministry of Municipal Affairs and Modernisation is a good start. Furthermore, overall land and transport planning is an important prerequisite for housing, and there must be a greater link between the construction of roads and the construction of dwellings. In the press areas such as major cities, it is necessary to facilitate the development of simple, fast and environmentally friendly transport to new development areas. Efforts at efficient transport solutions will open up several areas of housing construction and thus ease the pressure on the housing market. It is also good district policy. The technical building regulations must be simplified in cooperation with the construction industry. whereas the right of State authorities to promote objections which hinder housing regulation and local freedom of action must be restricted and the objections better coordinated; It's a 15 million-dollar reinforcement. kr from the 2013 State Budget to the Building Quality Directorate will reinforce the work on simplification and innovation. Electronic object lighting provides faster processes and less bureaucracy. Higher ceilings for BSU make younger people better able to enter the housing market, and by removing the proposal of the previous government on the non-social housing tax on extra housing, we can get more dwellings into the rental market. In its platform, the government also points to a number of other measures that we are going to work on in the future: simplifying the requirements for rental homes, building more student homes, providing good housing conditions, reviewing the impact of building regulations on the price and construction activity of the smallest dwellings. This means that we're taking many right steps in the right direction through this budgetary work, and we're going to take even more right steps in the work that's coming. The increase in housing prices has been greater than the growth in wages and salaries. We have read that in several media, and that is a reality. The supply is still lower than demand. At the same time, the red-green government has in its time been looking for, but there will now be a change. The new government, in cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Left, will better facilitate the construction of more dwellings in the future. I remind you once again — including for the rest of the debate — that some of the problems pointed out by the previous government have not arisen in the last eight weeks, but in the last eight years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e986	Then it took good care that the previous speaker was concerned with housing policy, because it is one of the important pillars of welfare policy. I want to say that Norwegian housing policy has basically been successful. Most people live in owner-occupied dwellings, and we have one of the world's highest housing standards. However, a high price level has made the threshold to enter the housing market unnecessarily high for some. That is why the red-green government increased housing support, we increased the loan framework to the Husbank on several occasions, more young people and disadvantaged people have received start-up loans, and it has now been built 100 000 municipal housing. The most important thing for the Labour Party in housing policy is that we need to build more. We need a state and municipality that takes greater responsibility, we want a more active and coordinated state and promote, among other things. proposals for reinforced efforts for more dwellings in the Fornebu area in this setting. I record that the Right is talking about new ideas and better solutions, but is voting for our proposal today. Then we want to escalate the stakes on student homes. We want to go up to 3,000 new student homes this year, because student housing is like a cheek egg: it contributes to student welfare, to equal rights to education and dampens the price of other rental homes. That's three good things at once. So we're busy making it easier to build. In our period of government, we changed, among other things, the wet room standard and removed the obligation to apply for simple measures on own property. The Directorate for Building Quality does a lot for simplification and digitisation, and we therefore oppose the government's proposal to cut back on this important work. But simplification must not be at the expense of quality. The working party is dedicated to building for the future. Is that what we've learned from history, is that the future comes anyway. We therefore adhere to the climate requirements for housing and the objective of building passive houses in 2015 and almost zero energy buildings in 2020. We also insist on availability requirements, because it's about everyone having the freedom to choose where they want to live. Then we have to continue with the efforts made with a social housing policy. The housing social work was reinforced under the red-green government, and we announced, among other things. that in 2014 we would come back with a housing social strategy. The Workers' Party believes it is important that this work be continued, especially in the light of the Solberg government's proposal for a further increase in interest rates in the House Bank. The House Bank is one of our main policy tools in housing policy. Never before have so many received start-up loans from the House Bank. It is therefore alarming that the government in the supplementary proposal shows a lack of willingness to increase the Husbank's lending framework. Then I register that the blue blues have watered out the ambitions of the residential area. They went high in the election campaign when it came to the equity requirement, as the representative Michael Tetzschner said as freshly as a ‘weapons of mass destruction’ in Stortinget just before the summer. Now the pipe has a completely different tone, and the bourgeois parties have run from their election vows. We are many in this room who know that negotiations can be difficult – especially if you disagree on something. But negotiations should be easier for me when you initially agree with the heart. It was the bourgeois parties before the election campaign. They got a clean majority at Stortinget, probably thanks to, among other things. Young people who voted for them because they had received a concrete promise. One of these promises has now become a letter to the Financial Supervisory Authority requesting that today’s flexible practice policy be continued. I call it a lack of implementation. The construction industry rightly calls it ‘a mockery of all the young people who have voted civilly because they need a place to live’. Then there's a poor consolation that the government is increasing the BSU limit. An increase when only a few and at all not the disadvantaged. In 2009 it was only 11 pst. by the target population that made full use of the scheme. The Labour Party believes it is wiser to invest in the House Bank and other schemes that really reach the young people who need it and those who are disadvantaged. But I record that in this area, too, the government prioritises a policy for those who have the most of it, and this leads to increased differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1015	The municipalities are a foundation of Norwegian democracy. The right-hand approach is that the municipality is, in essence, an association of citizens who agree to jointly perform important tasks. It is the people in common who give power to the local government, just as the inhabitants jointly give power to the Storing. The municipalities are therefore not a subdivision of the state — although it can often be heard in this way in debates and many people experience government decisions in this way. The Right and Right Party Government believes that several decisions need to be taken locally. You can boast that there is less earmarking of municipal income than it was before. The problem is that the local space for action is reduced over time — if not through formal designation of money, then through detailed governance of laws, guidelines, objections and state supervision. On the right, we believe that we need to be able to show greater confidence in the foundations of our democracy – both to local people elected and to the citizens who put together their own municipal government. Norwegian municipalities are at their best when the welfare services to the inhabitants can be put together as they fit best locally, when the municipality itself takes responsibility for investing in the teacher and quality of teaching and not just providing good school buildings, and when the municipality itself can have greater control over the development of its own community. It is because we have confidence in the inhabitants and local democracy that the Right-Fremskritsparti-regierung announces greater freedom for the municipalities, among others. land policy. A society that trusts people between must begin with the fact that we dare to show trust. The more mistrust, the more mistrust and suspicion you get back. But the more trust, the more trust and cooperation you get back. So it's also in the relationship between state and municipality. There's more to build trust. Transparency and predictability build trust. For example, the majority in the Committee, including the Right, are: While the financial structure of municipalities in 2014 is good — the free revenues actually increase overall, compared with the Stoltenberg II government — there is no doubt that very much of the growth continues to cover costs that do not increase the quality of services. Priority will continue to be needed between good objectives and to improve the efficiency of municipal services. This has also been the case in the last few years, under the red-green government. KS says it this way in a report from October this year – I quote the very first sentence in the report, it is represented by me earlier also: «Tross real growth in the free income of the municipal sector in recent years has not allowed for greater room for action for local politicians.» KS recently also presented a recent study among Norwegian advisers showing that almost 60 pst. they report more demanding budgetary work this year than last year. However, in recent years, the red-green batches have been most concerned with providing a beauty painting of their own efforts and a black paint of other lots for which there has not been a basis – either before or now. The red-green horror images from the election campaign have been put to shame when we are now sitting on the façade of the financial architecture for 2014, which is a good, robust and predictable arrangement for the municipal sector. The State budget of the Right-Fremskritsparte-Registration also includes other important priorities, which mean something in the everyday life of people in Norway, for example that it facilitates the establishment of municipalities with more than 500 additional lucky days' care places in the municipalities and strengthens the ability of municipalities to provide further training so that more than 3000 teachers and school leaders can start further training from the autumn of 2014. Yesterday, we confirmed the importance of this, through the PISA study. The county authorities receive a significant increase in the funds for county roads, through both 780 million. kr in increased funds compared to 2013 and through the continuation of the interest-rate compensation scheme. Trust in local communities, predictability of the economy and the ability to prioritise measures that ensure the everyday life of the elderly, ensure a better school for our young people and invest in value creation and infrastructure, show that this government provides a policy that strengthens the sustainability of Norway and ensures the well-being of the individual. The people gave the Storting a new majority. We're going to use it to bring back trust policy, to allow municipalities and citizens together to have more opportunities to find the best solutions for welfare provision, to develop a school with more knowledge and to build better roads and communities. Then we also have to reverse the trend with more governmental override.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1044	It is probably right to start by saying that it is very good in the proposal that we have for debate and discussion here today. This setting embraces an important area, and it has a lot in it that goes directly on the basis of welfare services to be provided by municipalities to their citizens in urban and rural areas. But there are several changes like the Right and the Advance Party with the Christian People's Party and the Left that support parties have made, which deserve a little attention. In fact, the municipalities report tighter frameworks as a result of the changes and features in the municipal framework proposed by the new government and supported by the Christian People's Party and the Left. This is not at all in the spirit of what Minister Sanner said – he promised not to cut into the framework of the municipalities. It's not many weeks since we could read about it in the Municipal Report. This cannot be said to be a good start to the municipalities, which depend on at least some long-term planning in order to be able to operate effectively and provide the good services. So one example, as we've heard here before, is you add 199 million. NOK in increased cash support, but draws the municipalities with a total of 344 million. kr. The municipalities report that so much money they don't think they're saving that there will be fewer children in kindergartens. The estimate for how much the municipalities save on the fact that the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left cut out the fruit and vegetables scheme in school, cut two annual kindergarten admissions and graduate cultural school hours are not, in the eyes of many people, in accordance with the actual circumstances. It's like that, for example. Three children in a kindergarten do not automatically lead to the municipality e.g. can cancel a nursery employee. Then the new government announced that they were to bet on care in the municipalities. That was a lot of pleasure. Then it turned out that you do not put any fresh money into this bet, but pull the municipalities into the frame. And the government that was supposed to give the local government more freedom and less bureaucracy, is now doing the wrong thing, and they're doing it at first opportunity. Drawing on the framework so as to earmark the same money gives, as I understand, less freedom to the local authorities, no more – it is possible that you need to be a member of the Right Central Government in order to understand it differently. The introduction of application systems for these earmarked funds is also not a cut in bureaucracy. It is rather the true opposite and will not lead to municipalities getting a better and more long-term commitment in the areas of drugs and psychiatry. Rather, there is a great uncertainty in the municipalities about how much each municipality will actually get to work in these fields. Some will get more, and some will probably get less. If you get less, you have to cut off other welfare areas as a local government member. Then we see that the government cuts strongly into the possibility of municipalities and county councils to drive business development. This does not coincide with what we heard in the election campaign to strengthen the investment in jobs and their development also in District Norway. The redistributions which the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left now choose to carry out, do not continue our good Community solutions. There is more of a retreat in many of the areas in which these batches promised to give priority to voters if they were given government power – now they have. And as a warning to those municipalities that are fiscally weak, you should note the comment from the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left about changed income system in the setting. Here, rapporteurs and economic operators in the municipalities should put their calculator first as the last. Such conversion will result in many losers and winners from the municipalities. In my own home country, Østfold, all municipalities will lose money on a conversion as it is now announced in the vote, and as discussed and debated in the election campaign before the election.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1063	It was very much for pessimism from the previous speaker. Anyway, I think it's good to get started with the first budget debate in the Municipal and Administrative Committee during this period. It's been a hectic time for everyone and a lot of new things. I have to admit that it has been extra exciting and interesting to get involved in many new things and not least be part of a party that is currently in government. It has been a good tone in the committee, and we have had good cooperation with our department. I would also like to pay tribute to the committee leader for the good leadership of the committee and, of course, I am very pleased that we are going to adopt a budget which shows a new direction in many policy areas. In the budget we are going to adopt today, there is a lot of good news about a comprehensive democracy reform. Right has been a powerful force for strengthening local democracy and private ownership throughout all years. An important part of this is to transfer power and responsibility down the system and down to the grassroots, to use a popular expression. This means, in practice, that both local democracy and landowners are given greater authority and responsibility. In the government platform, it is pointed out that the government party will delegate and decentralise more responsibilities and tasks to the municipalities, and one will reduce the State's ability to review the judgement of the elected representatives by delimiting the tasks of law enforcement and complaint management. A concrete example of this is in the municipality of Flora in Sogn and Fjordane, where a private developer wanted to build three cabins at Endestadvatnet. The regulation plan was drawn up in accordance with the municipal guidelines for this area, and there were no neighbouring protests against the plan. The planning and development selection in the municipality of Flora had, in several respects, been reconciled with the supported regulatory plan, and the municipality adopted the plan on 16 June 2009. After the County had submitted a counterclaim, the Ministry of the Environment rejected the plan after two years of handling. This is a good example of a case that could have been stopped after a co-conspirator's decision in the City Council, without interference with state governance. Government platforms also show that municipalities are to be given decisive weight in matters of national parks and protection areas and that they are to be given greater autonomy in the coastal zone. The government would also like to give the municipalities administrative responsibility within the local protection area and try out different models with landowner-controlled protection area management. One of the red-green government's taboos was so-called local protection area management. This should provide the municipalities that have national parks, a tool to help manage these areas in their municipality. The so-called local government has become a major downhill for many municipalities. After a year-long draw between central government on one side and municipalities and landowners on the other, the topic of local government has become more and more powdered. This is not least the case in terms of use and protection and when it relates to industrial development in the protection area. A good example of state overmanagement occurred on 4 July 2013, when the Ministry of the Environment tried out a solar-cleared plurality of the National Park Board of Reinheimen and allocated Lom’s administrative hub to the National Park instead of Lesja. Another issue that also concerns national park administration, is the debt of Skarvan and Roltdalen National Park. On the board, its spokespersons from the four municipalities of the National Park, two representatives of the county council and three representatives of the Sameting. There are no representatives of the landowners or users in this area. This should be a simple matter to do something about. Inclusion of a representative of the landowners in a national park regime would create greater respect and legitimacy for the administration of the national park, and this, in my view, should do something about it. I am also pleased that the government will try out different models for landowner-controlled management. We've seen that the state has major problems dealing with the national parks that are created, and that it hasn't even been created management plans for everyone. On the other hand, we have well-organized basic ownership teams, e.g. in Valdres, who has applied for a sample of a model for land-owned management, the so-called Fullsenn model. This looks very exciting and should be one of the models to be tested when creating a test project. As a co-political spokesman in the Right, I am pleased that the government and the co-operation party in the vote indicate that it is important to take care of Sami language, culture and tradition, and that one will develop Sami business and travel life associated with Sami culture and the Sami industries. This will be exciting to follow up in the future. Taking local democracy and the landowners seriously is both important and future-oriented. I am very pleased that in the government platform there are so many clear and good formulations for a new policy in this important area, and I hope that many other parties will also join this as it is presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1099	Contributing to a good start in life is one of the most important things we can do. A good childhood lasts a lifetime. The Barnhage reform has been the largest and most important reform in the Norwegian welfare community in the last ten years. A safe childcare facility means that children can experience play, socialisation and mastering together with peers, while parents can combine work and care. The government of Stoltenberg financed the development of kindergartens by the times, and Norwegian municipalities themselves – or in cooperation with private – built kindergartens to meet the needs of young children’s parents. The kindergarten agreement has been met, but 1 September has become a demanding date for many young children’s parents. Many who have born children after that date will have room, and the Stoltenberg government's proposal to fund several new kindergartens would provide many thousands of new kindergartens. Now, the allocation and therefore also the places – not only the allocation to new places, it is also cut in the allocation to existing places. The difference between the Stoltenberg government and the Solberg government is more than 7,000 places. Money is used to finance increased cash support and increased grants to private kindergartens. At the same time, we hear that fewer kindergartens provide greater freedom of choice. Yeah, that's where we see a clear difference of direction. There has been no lack of negative descriptions from today's government parties of a system that does not give birth to 1-year-olds after 1 September to kindergarten. In the debate here in the Chamber, the explanation has varied, but what we now understand is that the municipalities are going to carry out rolling recordings, even though we have heard different definitions here in the Chamber. But what we're hearing is that investigations and knowledge acquisition are needed. But there is knowledge, and what we can record, is that what before the elections was a promise of implementation, has been replaced by the need for more investigations. The nursery report says that almost all municipalities have a continuous recording. Of course, most kindergartens bring up children when there is free space, including children who do not have the right. But there has actually been a drop in the number of children who are in kindergarten and who do not have kindergarten, from 2010 to 2012, and that is because there are too few places. Therefore, it is wrong to cut the allocation to over 7 000 nursery places to finance cash support and tax relief. It means fewer kindergartens next year, less freedom of choice for parents and less opportunities for municipalities to give their citizens what they want. Let me remind you that kindergartens are one of the services that citizens are most satisfied with in the municipal sector. The information on kindergarten shows that the proportion of one-year-olds in kindergartens without proper place is highest in the richest municipalities. The notification also shows that there are children from low-income families and education who use kindergartens at least. Therefore, the cut in kindergarten places combined with higher payments increases the differences between children, increased differences between families and increased differences between municipalities. Municipalities represent the core wall of cultural provision, together with a number of voluntary teams and associations. In the cultural promise III, it was the local culture that was to be given priority. Unfortunately, there are considerable differences between those involved in cultural activities. Although municipalities provide a wide range of cultural schools, many never get the opportunity to try. Here again, we see that social dividing lines are decisive for who gets to participate in what. That's why the cultural school is so important, and that's why the proposed cultural school hour is so important. In it, all children get the opportunity to try different cultural expressions, become curious and be inspired. In this way, social differences can be reduced, and all children are given greater opportunities for development, creativity and creation. That's why it's so sad that the children are deprived of this opportunity now that the government cancels the Cultural Promise and cuts out the Culture School class.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1118	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1122	An important part of the development of metropolitan cities is the area initiatives that have been built in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Drammen with different profiles to combat differences, avoid decay and promote integration and better environment. The means of e.g. The Groruddals bet has come from different chapters and pooling posts in six different departments as well as the Municipality of Oslo and several urban areas, and it has sometimes been difficult to see and plan the overall effort in a good way. In order to achieve better coordination and overall coordination, it is positive that the Department of the Environment's chapters and resources for this purpose are now being moved to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. What's not positive is at the same time reducing this chapter from 47 to 42 million. kr in the additional proposition of the new government and, inter alia, as a result, the share of the funds allocated to the new inner east deployment is reduced from 4 to 3 million. kr. No mention has been made of the former own resources of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs for regional activities in the Groruddalen and in other sub-chapter cities. 581 Housing and housing measures in the additional proposal of the new government, and then I assume that the allocation of the funds described in the State budget of the Stoltenberg government under item 74 of the chapter on Housing and Living Environment measures will continue, where 59 million will be distributed. kr for the different bets. It is also the case that there are important funds for the regional initiatives in the Ministry of Knowledge's draft budget, in the Ministry of Children and Gender, including the original draft budget. free core time is in the proposals of the Ministry of Health, where there are public health measures, and in the Ministry of Transport budget, where there are many important transport projects relating to these areas. None of these parts of the other budgets relating to regional operations are mentioned in the additional proposal of the new government, and then I expect it to be a matter of course to go ahead with them as described in the draft budget of the Stoltenberg government. However, it is about allocation under items in different budgets, so that there are allocations to be made in the course of the next year, and it is important that the government pays attention to this in order to do so. So I would strongly encourage the government to ensure good coordination and management of the work on the area initiatives now that the role of the Ministry of the Environment is being phased out and there will be new structures in it. I would also encourage predictability and long-termity to be created by negotiating an early extension of the stakes there after the first part is phased out, so that further plans can be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1135	Norway is a country with great diversity and rich in deficiency, and through an active regional and rural policy it can take care of and further develop this deficiency. Re-allocation of public resources to the target and strong commitment to trade is one of the most important measures to achieve this. Norway is also a long country, and a large part of the competitive industry is located outside the big cities. It is important to reduce distance constraints and transport costs through a large-scale commitment to transport and increase investment on other infrastructure. It is very gratifying to see that the government has already delivered in this area. The continuation of the interest-rate compensation scheme and the extension of the loopholes to county roads have led to the return of optimism for those waiting for an important transport project. This is not at least the case in these days when state politicians are going to do their priorities in the regional road maps. The government is getting a bet on the county roads, and the same applies to increasing the permits to state roads and planning tools for new transportation projects. It is also an important signal that the government will facilitate growth in the whole country, and that one will strengthen the growth force where it is. It will provide a good basis for good living conditions in all parts of the country. If this is to be clear, it is important to have a business that is able to take care of and create new and profitable jobs. The most important means of ensuring growth and growth in the whole country is innovation and entrepreneurship, growth-promoting tax havens and increasing infrastructure. The government’s new regional policy, where the major cities, regions and districts around the developer will have a stronger interaction for the common good, will speed up industrial development in all parts of the country. Such an interaction will create positive ring effects. Unlike the former red-green governments, which made differences between cities and districts, this government will do the opposite. ‘By and land – hand in hand’ will be a good motto for this. This government wants to change the use of regional development funds from labour-intensive and bureaucratic schemes, where a large part of the funds go to administration, to more targeted measures towards enterprises. That's good. This will be an important step forward, for example. to create a room for strong commitment to transport and other infrastructure. Of course, such a conversion of the concessions to regional development funds also leads to the administration of the county councils being adapted to future tasks and new priorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1154	Now we've had a relatively long debate, and we've heard a lot about both red-green and blue. The entire color box is used when we bring the yellow color, but it still ends up in black and white. It's a nice metaphor to think about a little bit. I want to look forward, see far, because now we have the opportunity to raise a political issue that may have meaning for decades, namely the community reform. We are aware that this is a complicated matter. It has been tried before, and there is a lot of experience, we know what has happened in Denmark, we know what has been tried in our own country. But now we have the opportunity to do national work – relatively cross-political. And that's my point. For history, we carry with us – about the various shipwrecks, chieftains, about biscuits and everything that has led to the story we have. Then we have all the new needs now with power municipalities, with port issues, with electricity companies, with power extraction, with airports, there are fissures and IKS companies in both business and other community services. Now we have to be able to go together and see what's best for the people. This is also a blow to put an end to political contempt. Here we have a cross-political opportunity to do a national effort to put in place new structures in our country, seen entirely from the department and from the directorate via the state and county councils and down to the individual municipality. I want to use my post to encourage all parties to join forces to get this done. The working party has considerable competence – they have tried, they have had some leads on this before and have experience and will have a lot to contribute to the discussion. We in the Christian People's Party hope – once again – to be in the centre and could contribute to a good process. I also want to say to the Right and Advance Party: I have e.g. Observed that in the IKS company, has been said, we can't have politicians, we need to have more professional input. But yet one now says that there are problems with IKS companies, because there is a deficit of democracy. We need to get involved in the argumentation and in the conceptual world beyond, from the red to the blue, so that we can get a reform that stands out for decades. It was an attempt to encourage a good cross-political process with results within four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1167	In St.meld. No 31 for 2006-2007 on an open, secure and creative metropolitan region, Stoltenberg II’s Regional Planning Administration in Groruddalen and Søndre Nordstrand referred to an agreement-based split layer between state and municipality. The aim is a long-term commitment to sustainable development, better quality of life and good living conditions. Territorial activities take place locally, but also meet important national targets. The 2011 follow-up evaluation showed good results. The good experience has led to more urban areas being involved. There is no secret that urban areas with a high proportion of immigrants also face the greatest living conditions challenges. The positive results of the Groruddalen were therefore highlighted when the Kaldheim Committee presented its position for better integration in 2011. They proposed to test out several spatial bet models in several cities. The Stoltenberg II government followed up. From 2011 onwards, there was money for regional investment in Årstad in Bergen and from 2012 to Saupstad-Kolstad in Trondheim. My municipality of residence, Drammen, is an immigrant town no. 2 in Norway. 25 pst. has a migrant background. We have clear living conditions. Mountain, where the migration tip is highest, points out as an obvious candidate for the next area action. Yeah, actually, it should have been Drama's trip a long time ago. That Kaldheim has even become a city councillor, so the prerequisites for success should be the best. Large was therefore the joy when Stoltenberg II in the summer signaled that now the Drammen is finally on the road. Fifteen million. kr was set off in the start-up year, 2014. With a corresponding contribution from the municipality, everything was at the ready to get started quickly. The municipality has a good overview of where the shoe prints the most. There are active housing teams that are useful partners. The framework of the Right-wing Party Government in this budgetary procedure is that they have had too little time to put their mark on the budget, but some of them, the most important, probably, were, among other things. was to cut the new area bet in Drammen by more than half. Of the 15 million, there's only 7 left. Does that mean that the blue-blue government doesn't see the meaning of area bet? Is this a warning that more cuts will come in the other cities as well? Anyway, it's really bad done to the people of Drammen and Drammen. There's little money in the big context, but it means a lot locally. The drama has a rapporteur from the Right who has tried in local media on some partial excuses, without sounding particularly credible. The right has even the parliamentary leader from the Drammen. But I must say that I am particularly disappointed with the Christian People's Party and the Left, who have agreed to this cut. Maybe it's a glitch, I don't know, but I really hope they can help fix this at the next crossroads.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1183	For us in the Workers' Party, it is a political goal to provide good cultural experiences in all municipalities. Our cultural vows have provided billions of dollars for culture and volunteering throughout the country. This has been a good investment. We have carried out the Cultural Promise 1, we have carried out the Cultural Promise 2, and the government inherited the Cultural Promise 3, but cancelled the legacy. In all three cultural promises, our libraries have had a strategic place and been a resource that together with the municipalities is an arena too much more than read-only. Through the cultural promises, we could motivate and develop robust, resilient libraries that are worth using in all neighbourhoods. Now we see that municipalities in Norway are resting differently. Karmøy municipality in Rogaland is an example of that. In these days, the politicians from the Right and the Advance Party are planning to set up a library in the Land, a site with nearly 12,000 people soaking up this library. It is perceived as a coercion of a service, and the inhabitants go on torches. Our new councillor, Widvey, is from this municipality. I hope she dares to take the challenge when she next says that library is a bet area for the government, and that there is an important resource out there in our municipalities. Once again I believe that there is a big difference between what is being said and what is being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1194	The red-green government strengthened the local economy over eight years, and I remember well the situation of annual cuts before the red-green government took over in 2005. I fear a repetition from the time before 2005. From this pulpit we have heard that representatives from the Right-Fremskritsparte-Registration have stated that they have strengthened the municipal economy. But does that lead to correctness? In the Enemy of 27 November, one reads: ‘New government gives new cuts’. According to preliminary calculations by the KS, the 30 municipalities in the 2 Agder counties will lose a total of 18.1 million. kr, and Kristiansand will lose 5,6 – i.e. not a strengthening of the municipal economy in total. As former rapporteur, I am more concerned with the whole of the economy of the municipalities than with highlighting the posts that you hear about that have been filled. Another thing that concerns me in this context is the situation of the settlement of refugees, and especially minor asylum seekers, in relation to the community economy. Now we see that the blue-blue government reduces the proportion of expenditure reimbursed from the state to the municipalities. KS has addressed this in a letter dated 13 November, where one says that the municipalities have notified that this could lead to a reduction in measures. The same article in the Enemy also shows that there is evidence that Kristiansand refuses to accept 10 minor asylum seekers. In a few years, this group may be away from the municipality. They'll make $9 million. I want to drop them. Although we are generally positive about accepting asylum seekers, we cannot subsidize the state, says Vice-President Jørgen Kristiansen of the Christian People's Party, and responds to the government's knitting in support. So, finally, today, the Directorate of Financial Management has eight offices. Progress Party-Right Government proposes in Prop. 1 S Appendix 1 that the offices of Drammen, Kristiansand, Tromsø, Hamar, and Vadsø are laid down. In this context, I would like to refer to the following comment from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV: ‘These members are engaged in maintaining their competence and jobs in these locations and do not support the notified centralisation [[...]] I had hoped that several parties had supported it. For the South, it means centralisation of 27 state jobs. In my opinion, the current should have gone the other way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1210	As a former municipal politician in the municipality of Hemne, I have followed closely in today's debate, and I am absolutely sure that Kommune-Norge has also done so. This is one of the main budgets of the Storting. Here we talk about the daily offer and everyday life to most people. The Chairman of the Committee, Helge André Njåstad, from the Progress Party, opened the debate today. He was most concerned about the property tax. The progress party opted for them to remove the property tax, but I do not see that they have come up with fresh funds in this budget. It may not be so strange when the big money is spent on tax bills for the richest. So here we see a new breach of promise. The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Njåstad, also tried to give a picture of their strengthening of the municipal budgets with their proposals. I'm pretty sure the Kommune-Norway feel is not right. What the new government is doing in its proposal is taking money from the municipalities and earmarking them. There will be no more money for the municipalities. It also gives strong leadership to the discretionary funds, which are currently used to capture bias in the redistribution and unforeseen costs arising during the year. Now this money is to be used as carrot for municipal aggregation. And then we see that they're making 344 million. in grants to kindergartens as well as in the reimbursement scheme for lone minor asylum seekers. They're making $430 million. kr in regional development funds for county municipalities. Just for my home country, Nordland, this means a cut of $70 million. kr. There won't be better district investment, innovation and business development by cutting 70 million. kr for development funds and replace it by approx. Thirty-five million. kr on the road. What should worry the municipalities more is what's coming. We can expect a strong redistribution of the local authorities' framework if this gets a majority in Stortinget. I am thinking in particular of the corporate tax. Going for a redistribution that today will mean that 42 of the 44 municipalities of the Nordic countries will receive less income in the future. So all municipalities under 3,200 inhabitants can meet a demanding economic time. The small community grant will probably not survive if you want to base what is stated in the comments, and what has been said by, among other things. Chairman of the Committee in today's debate. And when the Solberg government says they're going to use carrots in the municipal reform process, I think this is very similar to whip. Finally, I remember well as a municipal politician Jern-Erna's tightening up of the municipal economy, and it might look like it's the same medicine that's been brought up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1225	Our wealth and well-being depend on our use of resources as efficiently as possible. For this reason, the Red-Green Government presented a programme of digitisation with offensive and clear objectives. Many good measures have already been taken or implemented. General government issues approx. 125 million letters and spends 1 billion. kr in postage every year. Thanks to the red-green government, every next year they will be offered their own digital mailbox. We have introduced bank ID to log in to public web services. In June, there were 2.9 million users. The loan box is digitized. Since 2004, it has been saving 60 mills and 50 mills. kr every year, and the best thing about it is that the procedure time is halved. I think it is positive that we have received a government that has great ambitions. Follow-up to our initiatives and plans for digitisation and efficiency of the public sector is needed. We have great expectations that the ambitions of government and state councils will become concrete action quickly, and we are delighted to see the results. Then I would like to say that I have requested a lot in the residential area. But you might want to follow along, because there are already seven states that have started the trial project to coordinate construction matters so that construction is going to be faster. The red-green government has already consulted new planning guidelines and has also initiated the launch of BuildingNet, a common electronic platform for interaction in the construction sector. So a lot has happened in the area of housing when it comes to simplification. Our expectation is that the government will follow up with concrete action and not just complain that there are so many state objections – and not promote a single proposal in the budget that can do anything about that situation. There's something called "Talk the Talk, walk the walk". It's a little strange to sit and listen to this debate, because we're talking about the vitalisation of regional policy while cutting down 430 million. kr in regional development funds. There is talk of less state detail management while increasing the designation of municipalities. There is talk of creating housing in the districts, but at the same time the Bolyst programme is being terminated. There is talk of trust in local elected representatives, but at the same time the priorities of the county council are being overestimated. You talk about increased freedom of choice, but you talk about kites in the number of kindergartens. It is said that values are to be created throughout the country as well as cutting across the mountains in regional policy instruments. There is a great difference between word and action.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1238	It is a little surprising that after everyone has had their main posts, the Sami is not mentioned in the course of the debate. Perhaps even more surprising is that it was only after eight years and an additional proposition that the previous government parties knew their visit time by adding a start-up grant to Saemien Sijte, on which the Left was clearly in its alternative budget. It's a little unthinkable when you've been in government for eight years, that only when you're out of it, you come all of a sudden with funds that you've promised this area for eight years. Framework transfers to the local government sector are, in reality, crucial. All municipalities are good providers of welfare services. Therefore, the Left's vision is a living rule of the people, which requires local elected bodies. We want to strengthen local democracy just by moving power down to the elected bodies, and therefore we are also clear that we want to have three levels. We want a process of democracy to begin. We believe that this will actually benefit democracy. Getting rid of all the different ICSs, the intercommunal companies, will make it possible to make local decisions. I was in the Nord-Trøndelag yesterday listening to a debate in which the County Council leader of the Nord-Trøndelag County is now beginning to be anxious to look at structures in relation to the county municipality. This is not necessarily what you hear in this hall from her party, the Workers' Party, nor from parties that were in the former government. I think it is positive that many people out in County Norway and Municipality Norway have picked up their gloves. That's when things happen. Based on my understanding, when I was at the county council in the North Trøndelag that belongs to yesterday, they're excited to get started, now the possibilities are there. Then it's up to us to give them the start shot, because the finish line is already there. Now they will start, so it is important that we start a democracy reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1247	The representative, Stine Renate Håheim, gave me the opportunity to comment a little on the contradiction, when it was said that we do not say anything in a single word about the state's right to contradict. Now that's not right, because we're saying a lot about it, but I'm grateful for the ability to say further from this speaker that the new government has expectations that one should have fewer counterparts to municipalities to facilitate housing construction and other types of development. The signals I have understood clearly, and I also understand that the statesmen have received them. So we are excited to meet the attempt at coordination. We have not concluded how it will be in the future. However, it is clear that if the statesmen are to try this out, lift their eyes a little and think more – and therefore also have fewer contradictions due to the fact that a co-ordinator of state contradictions – there is something that will be exciting to follow further. I also record that both the Left and the Christian People's Party have come with positive greetings when it comes to participation in the municipal structure discussion. It was interesting to hear the Tuskedal talk about the first boundaries of the division of Norway with the shipwrecks over 1,000 years ago. So one knows that it's moved on to things. It has our presidency law since 1838, and one had the great Schei Committee just 50 years ago. Tskedal, who comes from Karmøy, has a lot of good knowledge. We know that Karmøy was 7 municipalities 50 years ago, and then they were merged to 1. So here we have a lot of exciting competence in the committee that can contribute further. Then I also record that a lot of former spokespersons of mine have been on the pulpit and expressed that they are experiencing cutbacks. It is clear that it is almost tempting to use the same rhetoric as the leader of the Workers' Party, who says that there is a difference between cuts and cuts in growth. There are no municipalities that feel that one gets less money next year. I've tried in the main post to explain that an actual gets more money when an adjuster for the division of tasks, which is also a reason. That'll get 214 million. kr more in the municipal sector next year when a task allocation adjusts. So it's going to be wrong to produce what's cut, and at least it's going to be wrong to present it as if the municipalities are going to have to deal with the scheme that the new government has put forward, and that the Storting has strengthened by 214 million. kr. But then it's important that you get both the plus and the minus in the tables, and you see that something is being redistributed to other chapters, while the municipalities' sum total next year will get a good starting point. Then all the speakers, including the councils, have been honest that we don't think all the problems are solved, or that there's no need to prioritize for the municipalities. It's a new direction, because in the last eight years, the spokesmen have heard that now there's money for everything. Now it is a matter of having to prioritize.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1261	A new archive building on Tynset for Arkivverkets central depot and Norsk health archive was granted a start-up grant of 75 million. kr in the red-green budget. The quality assurance and concept selection investigation was completed in 2011 and clearly concluded that this was a good project from both a professional and an economic point of view. Location on Thinset will have major positive ring effects throughout the mountain region. It is therefore regrettable that this project is now being proposed to be stopped. The red-green government is now being accused of being too active. The small municipality has done a lot of work and invested about 40 million. kr to be able to receive these archives. KS2, which is currently in progress, is only a quality assurance of the construction project itself that has been developed in the interaction between State Building and the contractor Download. I therefore have a great deal of understanding of the concern of the Thinset region that this is a rematch on localisation. I was in no way reassured by hearing Mr Sanner's reply to the representative, or, perhaps we should say, a lack of answers, especially in the light of the fact that the entire budget of the Solberg government has centralisation as a red thread, or, in order to use the own words of the Right and the Advance Party, they will ‘strengthen the growth force where it is’. The centre party, together with SV and the Workers' Party, has made the following proposals: The Stortinget asks the government to confirm the «localisation of new buildings for the Arkivverket’s central depot» and the Norwegian health archive «to Tynset». The majority have made similar proposals, but with a statement that it assumes that KS2 ‘promotes the construction of any new building’ – a much weaker formulation that still gives cause for uncertainty, but a proposal that the Centre nevertheless chooses to support subsidiaryly. Everything is more like than nothing. In the treatment of the regional and regional notification, there was broad agreement to seek to maintain the housing structure in Norway. If we're going to achieve the goal, we have to make sure that we distribute government competence jobs across the country. The new government is doing the opposite by centralising the Directorate of Financial Management. Important skills jobs in Drammen, Kristiansand, Tromsø, Hamar and Vadsø are laid down. Finally, I would like to highlight the importance of the realization of the new museum building, Sami Sitje, at Snåsa. Today's museum does not have working conditions to ensure that the Southern Sami culture is preserved and disseminated to a wider audience. The centre party has therefore proposed a start-up grant of 5 million, together with the Arbeiderpartiet and SV. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1274	First, to the issue of Tynset, I would like to say that the way in which the government has now behaved in this case, a state should not behave towards a municipality. There's been a lot of discussion here about the state not trying out, the state shouldn't intervene, and the state shouldn't have yours and not your daughter, but here's the real state that's kicked the leg under a project where the municipality has put down 40 million. kr. It doesn't really matter. I support several of the posts from the Workers' Party here that also show the big difference between what you're actually doing and what you're saying. You cut grants and say that you strengthen them. Then we've had a discussion about the distribution of municipal economics, and then I was very surprised at the contribution to Frank Jensen, who says that now we had the fasit. Yes, does that mean that all the changes that the government has now announced in the local economy have been scrapped? So that's the distribution we see today, which is the fasit? In this case, I would like the Council of State to confirm that all proposals for changes, such as: in the case of corporate taxes or distribution of income, as the representative Frank Jensen here says, is now in error. I would also like to stress that it is not only in Eastfold, but that all the municipalities in Hedmark and Oppland, and I think many, many other places, are losing a lot of money, while the municipal minister's home municipality of Bærum is winning a great deal on such a redistribution as has been announced by the Right. All right, let's go to the living The representative Kapur was up here and had a strange story. It's possible he only remembers eight years back, but, to say it like that, lack of housing has been for a very long time. In the municipality of Oslo, there are therefore 21,000 fully regulated residential areas – in the city where the representative Kapur's party rules and has ruled quite a lot longer than eight years. So these fully regulated residential areas are not being built. There must then be some lack of action both in the municipality and elsewhere when this does not happen, and there is a great need for it. The question is, is it this tax haven of those who have the most to contribute to this? That was clearly also what Kapur meant, when he suggested that getting tax deductions when you have so much money that you can buy more apartments and rent them out again is a good solution. At least it's only the person who can afford it, who gets tax relief, and the interest that's left is then paid by the person who can't afford to buy a dwelling, but who has to rent it from the person who can afford it. That is the policy that the Right and the Progressive Party now want to pursue. It is a policy that does not provide enough housing, because there are not enough incentives for housing to be built, or that one is willing to use tools that make it impossible to speculate in the housing, as it is now done, and that the speculative gain comes from those who have housing, not from those who need housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1285	It is nice and good to note that in many ways it is now a total mass that is behind the Sameting and the peculiarity that the Sameting is given. I note that the Progress Party has done a very exciting political downturn and rejected its last year's proposal on, inter alia, the subject. the removal of the Sameting and the removal of the Sami language management area. I have read with interest last year's settings, Innst. 16 S for 2012–2013, entry 50. The fact that a total increase, now including the Advancement Party, is an expression of the importance of Sami language, culture and tradition, gives a good signal. The signal is that there is a strong political will to support and promote the development of Sami culture, language and focus on travel and business development in cooperation with the traditional Sami industries. Saemien Sijte has a longer discussion behind her. The Working Party, the Centre Party and SV are now proposing, among others: having regard to the extension of the budget, a start-up grant of 5 million. kr to Saemien Sijte and get support for this from both the Christian People's Party and the Left in the comments in the setting. Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party and the Left do not follow up on supporting a start-up grant, but chooses to give priority to other issues. With such a total accumulation in this mound, it should have been possible to obtain such an allocation. Especially when the Left from this pulpit chooses to flag the matter quite strongly, they can now choose to turn the case over to the advantage that construction can begin.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1294	The biggest problem in the housing market today is that people don't brag in a lot of extra homes and speculate in the wild clouds. The problem is that there is a shortage of housing, and that is where the previous government has to take its responsibility. Over to the big city: In recent years, the old slogan about town by city by country has lost its glow and does not raise any city or build up any significant amount. The slogan really belongs to a time and reality that today's young and future generations are no longer going to deal with. The world has become a smaller place, and so is Norway. I think these boundaries will be erased gradually, and then we have to have a forward-looking view. This city-to-country rhetoric we've also seen a little bit of it in Oslo. On the left, politicians use the same rhetoric to put the urban areas up against each other and create myths about a segregated – divided – city where children are to be bused from one school to another. This has been said by politicians from the left in Oslo. The last choices show that the left-hand side is all about reality. Norway is a diverse country. Good regional and district policies provide more diversity and thus also more growth and value added across the country. The most important thing to ensure growth-intensive regions is a creative and innovative business that has the right conditions to create new jobs and compete both nationally and internationally. The framework conditions for business and a good infrastructure are the most important district policy instruments. At the same time, we also need to recognise the role of big cities and cities in the development of rural areas. I am pleased that Norway has finally received a government that has its own big city bet. The development programme for small and medium-sized cities is extended to all urban regions. We're still going to have area bets, but area bets are more than putting money in. This government is spending more money, but we're also betting on a better school, on creating jobs, and on creating safe communities. It's also area bet. It disappoints me when I hear left-hand representatives from the pulpit talk about area bets by counting money – not a word about the school bet. Yesterday’s PISA survey shows the importance of area use also in these districts mentioned, because school is the most important. The country is built through living communities, but cities are also important for the development of the different parts of the country. There should be room for everyone in a big city. It takes this government into account, and therefore we will continue to make good efforts in all areas of the country – including school, work and security. It is important for absolutely all areas in all cities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1309	I am among those who believe that good results should be achieved in real science, the cultural school and such activities must be strengthened. Therefore, I regret that the allocation to the cultural school class fell out, because the money could have been spent in a better way if you had listened to the need. I belong to those who believe that the cultural school hour might have been a political structure where they thought of filling the SFO with content, and where they used the cultural school as a tool for it and created a kind of 'cultural school light'. But the cultural school is a separate school team, and I'm looking forward to maybe spending the same money on waiting lists and talent development, because that's where the need is. It expresses both the municipalities and the Norwegian School of Culture Council. I would like this to come up higher on the track at the next budgetary round.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1316	About any red-green representative who has spoken in this debate made me speak. I am sitting in the office here in the house and trying to do as best I can, but it is not as easy when you sit like a feather and follow this debate on the big business web TV. I am a little surprised by the total lack of perspective you can hear from red-green magnification representatives about what this country will look like in 10–15–20 years. We see a municipal structure changing, without necessarily being politically governed, because municipalities are growing together. Some work in one municipality and live in another. We hear from red-green representatives about congestion in the municipalities – this while the free income of the municipalities has increased. Then we hear the representative Karin Andersen talk about Oslo's housing policy. We should be happy that it is not SV that controls the municipality in which we are now sitting. A study showed how many fewer dwellings we had in Oslo had SV won with their voting in urban development matters in the municipality. They came out the second worst, if I remember correctly. It was said from a representative that this government should make rich municipalities richer and poorer municipalities poorer. When to understand that the red-green giants lost the election by talking in that way, that the rich became richer and the poor became poorer – either people or municipalities. I'm glad that for the first time in eight years, we have a government that can do something really out of what we all say: "By and land – hand in hand" and that small municipalities have their challenges that need to be solved, but also large municipalities need to be prioritised to solve their particular challenges. I am very surprised that not even the red-green magnification representatives can be satisfied that you can now have two thoughts in your head at once.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1327	In my main post, I asked for both audacity and honesty in the communication on local economy. I think we're on it, whether we belong to the government parties or to the opposition parties. The reality drawn nationally can be quite different from what it is local. I have heard several speeches during the morning, from the representative Odd Omland and the representative Kjell-Idar Juvik, talking about annual cuts in the municipal economy before 2005, while there was a completely different reality under red-green rule, and there was talk of tightening up the municipal economy during the Bondevik II government. Let me just remind you what the actual numbers show. They show that the total income growth for municipalities was exactly the same under Bondevik II from 2002 to 2005 as it was under Stoltenberg II in the last parliamentary term, namely 2.2 pst. It shows the numbers, and I think it's important that we act honestly and fairly on how the local economy is. It is true that there has been a strong growth in the last eight years, but it is also true that the municipal economy as a whole is robust for 2014, and we are concerned that municipalities will have good income in the years to come. It is also true that the bourgeois parties have said that we should have a comprehensive review of the municipal economy, and it is particularly important to look at the local reform to be implemented. We believe it is important that municipalities retain a share of the value creation, but we are also concerned that small municipalities with weaker incomes should also have a solid economy that can provide good services. We're definitely getting good opportunities to discuss this in the time that's coming, and we're definitely not going to agree on everything. But the dramatic images that are drawn, I think you might at some point be able to bite yourself. So, district and regional policy, where it was claimed by the representative, Mr Greni, that everything involves centralisation. No, centralisation is state override. Centralisation is State detail management. Decentralization is giving power to the municipalities, ensuring growth across the country, and that's what this government stands for. Let me also remind you that while Oslo Municipality and County gets 2.8 million. kr extra to highways, Finnmark will receive 27 million. SEK and Nordland 110 million. kr. This isn't centralization, it's decentralization. The biggest threat to growth in the whole country is a weakening of competitiveness, as jobs are lost. This government will provide for the strengthening of knowledge and competitiveness. It will also contribute to a vitalised regional policy and growth across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1342	I am listening with interest to the debate, and I am also listening with interest to the red-green ones, who have a great attachment to wanting to control from above and less to get to the bottom. There are limits to politics. Therefore, the statement that ‘Rights care about you – not you’ is exactly an expression of that limit. It starts with a basic desire to show trust through practical policies, but also to give confidence – that, for example: States and politicians do not interfere with tasks that others can do as well. If municipalities are able to handle a task, they should be given confidence in doing so, and therefore removing regulation and unnecessary bureaucracy is building up under that trust policy. The right is concerned with simplifying laws and regulations and removing unnecessary spe­cific prohibitions and prohibitions. What I see is a government that has just started work to strengthen local democracy. The government will base its policy on the objective of making the most effective use of Community resources and that society needs to be less bureaucratic. If families can handle a decision, they should also be trusted to do so. Policies should build up under voluntary and civil society and not make this a under-use of the State. Believe it or not, I experience at least – and I think most people do – that people are most responsible, they are upstanding citizens, and the state doesn't have to interfere or make policies of everything. There are limits to politics. Civil society – organisations, families, teams, religious institutions – is neither a market nor a state. Strengthening this civil society means that we, as politicians, must provide a good framework for operation, but at the same time rely on organisations, institutions and municipalities to govern themselves. The state power – as we sit here in the elected upper assembly, it represents – must be strong, but limited. It is true that the state has many and important tasks — not just police and defence, but health services, help to those who do not manage themselves, and a school that takes care of everyone, regardless of background. Just through less bureaucracy, regulation and lower taxes, the government will decentralize power. It's a value in itself, and it's important. People with creativity and desire for action must be given greater arms. Trust creates just that, it liberates. The municipalities are the foundation of Norwegian democracy, and the government, with its policy, wants to strengthen local democracy by shifting power and responsibility to the municipalities. This means that most people are getting more influence over their own everyday lives and their own local environment, and the municipalities are responsible for the basic welfare services and are going to be the most important ones for those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1359	It is in many ways encouraging to listen to parts of this debate. The last article by Karin Andersen – several have so far been concerned – makes you wonder a little about what reality is described. I can tell you what it's been like lately. What is clear is that for a long time the Right has said that we want a comprehensive review of the way the income system of the municipalities works. Then the red-green ones, based on assumptions of such a review, picked out individual elements, got calculated on them, and figured out how they think it turns out for individual municipalities. In the election campaign, they traveled around the country and the beach and were very rusty and generous in sharing promises of cuts in the local economy on behalf of the Right. Well, we in the right did our best to refute the claims and said that dear friend, now you've calculated something that's not right. We want an overall review, and now you've picked out individual elements, and we can't stand for this. The voters heard that message, but it obviously hasn't reached the red-greens. Because they cut the red-green drives election fighting to come, have not come, and that is the fasit that we see now when we have a government with a robust and real municipal structure. I understand that the red-greens are disappointed with it and rather try to write it out and say that then the drama will probably come later. But I would like to say that it was the red-green election vow that everything would be bad for Kommune-Norway with a new government. It wasn't our election vow. And if this – almost speaking – can be called a breach of promise, it's a breach of promise the red-green themselves must answer for, not we.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1372	I would like to thank you for the debate. One of the things I've noticed is the mayor's call for honesty and audacity when talking about the local economy. It is a call I fully agree with, and it is a call I think you can also extend to several areas. I also recorded that he urged to listen to the rapporteurs and to what is happening at local level. There is also a request I like to share. But at the same time, I recorded that when the municipal councillor was told what progress had been in the municipalities over the last few years, he thought that our two former rapporteurs had been wrong, and that it was the figures and statistics that were right. I also hope that the representatives of the government parties will listen to the call from Jan Tore Sanner for honesty and soberness. These include: the relationship between what you said before the election and what you do after the election. The representative Schou said early in the debate that people in elections have said that they want money for asphalt and roads. I think that's right for a lot of voters. But there were probably also some voters who voted on the Right and the Advance Party because they promised to remove and reduce the equity requirement, respectively, because the Right promised continuous admission into kindergartens, because the Right promised the standard of staffing and more quality in the kindergartens, and because the Progress Party traveled around and showed that they had added 2 billion. extra kr in the municipal scheme for 2014. In Finnmark and Nord-Troms, there were a lot of people who had brought with them Prime Minister Erna Solberg's very clear guarantees that the instruments should not be touched in the action zone. Many probably also found appeal in the strong right-hand connection to the taskbar. Before the election, they thought the Workers' Party was a bit relaxed; now they think the Workers' Party is manically occupied with the workline. This is obviously a sore point for the Right. So I hope that the government parties can also be honest and sober about what you're actually doing right now. Here in the Chamber, one tries to present it as strengthening municipal welfare, while de facto cutting in many welfare services and spending less money in the local economy than the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre do. They're talking about building more, but voting down on the initiative on the Fornebu area increases the mortgage interest rate. You talk nice about the area bet, but you cut the area bet on Fjell. It is said that people want to live in the whole country, but are constantly cutting into the policy that will contribute to it. As far as redistribution is concerned, we have just shown what is actually in the position, that there will be a redistribution between tax and tax-deprived municipalities. How this should benefit and provide better services to the deprived municipalities remains a major question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1385	The representative, André N. Skelstad, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1389	‘ Honesty’ was a good word for the introduction to this: eight years. So last year, when you have no influence, you choose to do something you've promised for a long time – to give money to the museum building of Saemien Sitje on Snåsa. I expect the centre party to have tried it because there is also a centre party rapporteur up there. But ‘truth’, I think, is a good statement, also from the former county rapporteur in Finnmark. So to Thinset, we in the left assume that after KS2, there's no discussion about locating. That is our prerequisite for what is contained in the proposal for a decision. I don't understand why the representative Karin Andersen is now trying to make an uncertainty about location. Our assumption is crystal clear – that after KS2, it's Thin that's the place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1396	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1399	The problem is that the uncertainty remains, but I really hope that you get that case landed and that it will be built on Tynset. I took the floor because the representative Heggelund was up and thought it was SV who was responsible for not being built enough dwellings in Oslo. Then I would like to remind you again – I can read the number again – that there are 21,000 plots ready to build in Oslo. The Oslo City Council says that there are many, many buildings ready to build plots in Oslo that are not being built. It can't be SV's responsibility that it doesn't happen in Oslo! It is also clear that the representative, Heggelund, has also not come to realize that, by distorting the local economy, the government and the majority of the population here now indicate that they want to be affected, there are also quite a number of large cities. It is not just the peripheral municipalities that are affected by this, but for example. Trondheim, who was mentioned here, and Hamar, Elverum and Kongswinger in my state.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1408	During the exchange of lines, claims were made that I have read papers other than those that government representatives have read, and after following the debate, I think I can confirm that it works that way. So I have to regret that I took as a premise that they relate to the setting that is distributed in the hall here today. It says, in a comment from the majority: ‘The majority refers to a reference in the platform that the government of Solberg will carry out an overall review of the income system which ensures that municipalities retain a larger proportion of the value added locally. [[...]] The majority also request that the tax equalisation rate be considered.’ And during the treatment of the municipal proposition here in the hall, it was confirmed by municipal political spokesman Tetzschner of the Right that it meant at least a reversal of the income imbalance we carried out. And if that doesn't mean redistribution from poor to rich municipalities, from taxpayer to tax-deprived municipalities, then someone has to explain to me how they manage to implement that change without having consequences.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1418	The representative, Mr Kapur, has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1421	I just had to take the floor, because of the two extra good news for young people, newly established to enter the housing market, one was mentioned as a bad news and one was referred to as a ‘poor comfort’. First of all, with tax tightening of the dwelling: this would not lead to anything other than that fewer would rent out dwellings, and that would push prices further up. There is good news for many to enter the rental market – and not always just into the housing market. So to the BSU, which was referred to as a "poor consolation." Then I would like to remind you that this increased demand from NOK 100 000 to NOK 150 000 was too small, and too late, because it was lagging behind in relation to the price increase in the housing market. That is why the government has increased the annual savings to NOK 25 000, and the overall savings ceiling in the BSU has been increased to NOK 200000. Overall, this constitutes two good news for them to enter the housing market — and not one bad news, or a poor comfort.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1435	What made me take the floor was Sanner's call for soberness, and I will join in, as my party colleague Helga Pedersen did. I will not accuse the council of state of being drunk, but he must also be sober and honest. It is true that when comparing the municipal structure and the growth in the municipal structure of the Bondevik II government and the Stoltenberg II government, and when you operate as Sanner did, saying that there is no difference, it is far from correct, but then you also include the Stortinget proposal – not the government’s proposal – because there was a significant impact in the Stortinget under Bondevik II on the government’s proposal for municipal planning. There is no one in this Chamber who has met a rapporteur who has said that ‘this is a fantastic municipal budget – we can afford everything we want to do’. I don't think we're going to do that in the next four years – nor in the next four years when the Workers' Party will be in government. Governments were also concerned with what is ‘centralisation’. I have to admit that the definition of ‘centralisation’ that was given was somewhat narrow. For if centralisation is a matter of state overgovernment and the use of public policy instruments, this is a very narrow definition. Centralisation is a trend that emerged at the moment we invented cities, and it is a megatrend and a global trend. The trend is strong in Europe, but, fortunately, it has been weaker in Norway than in the rest of Europe, and it is, among other things, taking place. on policy choices, it is a matter of facilitating the possibility of living and having a job to go to in the districts as well. Then I share the concerns of the Council of State that the competitiveness and competitiveness of Norwegian business are crucial to how we will create values in this country, and I hope the government is right in its analysis and in what is the basis for the assessment of increasing oil money consumption in next year's budget. Because I live and live in a competitive state – we have a large process industry, we export fish for billions of dollars every year – and the impact on interest rates and competitiveness will directly affect the number of jobs in my home country. So I share the concern, and I hope, as I said, that the government is right in its analysis, and that this will not be restrictive or will weaken competitiveness. So just a few brief comments in the end: I'm glad that we've got a representative on the house who is being "fettered" by the local committee's debates. The representative Heggelund was concerned that the municipal structure is changing, and that in the future you live in one municipality and work in another, but I can inform the representative that it is actually happening today – actually to a very large extent, and perhaps especially in this area. I also think the representative Kapur goes very far when he claims that there is a shortage of housing in Norway, and that it must be the responsibility of the red-green government. Yes, it is true that there have been built for few dwellings in relation to demand over many years now, but to claim that there is a strong housing shortage and crisis in the country is to draw it well far.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1448	The representative Ingerd Schou has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1451	I listened with interest to the posts of the representative Pedersen calling for honesty and honesty at the position – and I realized that it had also been well done in the opposition. I dare remember that the government that is now sitting has been sitting for 7 weeks. The last one was in 417 weeks, and I dare remind you that the parties that made up the 417-week government also had their own programs, their own election campaigns and their own promises before they entered a Soria Moria-idyll. Then there were also many who protested in the lawn, and who did not agree, and who found out that what they had meant in the campaign was suddenly not followed up in the government. I record that the Stoltenberg II government's budget proposal failed the very weakest – those who demanded the most resource-intensive services. It is not useful to come and say that there were solutions to be found within the ordinary municipal budget. They failed the weakest. 60 pst. by the councillors, it is said that the draft budget of the Stoltenberg II government was made worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1460	The representative, Helga Pedersen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1463	I took the word just to say that the requirements of being honest and sober must apply no matter how long you have been in government. I think you're always going to have visions and goals that you're trying very hard to achieve, but you're still not going to be able to achieve. It's happened with red-green parts, and it's also going to happen with the Right and the Advance Party. But what is very special about many of the issues we have discussed today is that the Right Party and the Advance Party have made very clear promises in the election campaign – promises they have agreed on – which they have now cancelled. The capital requirement is a brilliant example of that. The right would reduce it, and the Progress Party would remove it – now it's canceled. I'm not going to repeat the whole list that we've been through sometimes, but that's what we've pointed out. Users with special needs would get an equally good offer next year with the red-green government, and the municipalities would have more money if the red-greens had still been in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1480	So we're done with part one of the debate and we're going over to part two.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1483	Immigration and integration policies are a very broad policy area. It spans many policy areas – many more than the municipal and management committee itself are responsible for dealing with them. It is my opinion that in political Norway there is broad agreement to pursue an active immigration policy and to enforce the adopted policy. There is, however, a debate which is partly driven by sharp fronts. Some will have the least possible access to the country, and some will help as much as possible into the country and as best they can when they are in the country. Active policies have been expressed in the last eight years, among others. through ongoing policy initiatives – primarily from the government of Stoltenberg II, but initiatives have also been taken by non-governmental organisations and our political opponents, which have led to necessary changes. And we have regularly debated the issues in this room – fortunately, because it is a comprehensive field. We have pursued a labour immigration policy that is transparent and predictable. The main purpose of the labour immigration policy is for the Workers' Party to facilitate the recruitment of the necessary skilled workers, including those from abroad, in an easy and effective way. We have basically succeeded. Employment migration to Norway was historically high in 2012. It's a wanted and wanted immigration. Norwegian enterprises have no labour force available in the country, and this helps to dampen the pressure in the economy. However, let me stress that work immigrants to Norway should have the same pay and working conditions as Norwegian workers. We don't want to accept social dumping. The Norwegian debate on immigration and integration is very often reduced to a change of words from the trenches, where the main theme is how many asylum seekers we should have. There is not always an equally nuanced debate. Norway is no isolated island in the world. We are part of a world that is becoming ever smaller, or said in another way – a world where globalization is strongly increasing. In the government, we have led a consistent, fair and legal refugee and asylum policy. The Labour Party builds its refugee and asylum policy on international commitments and the moral duty we have to provide humanitarian assistance to our fellow human beings – including those outside the borders of the country. I had the joy and honor of being a member of the Norwegian delegation to the 68th UN General Assembly in the fall. It was striking to learn how high Norway is as a contributor to the UN – not only in the light of our solid financial contributions, but also because we are perceived as a constructive and active contributor to the major challenges facing us internationally. We also met with deep respect for all the skilled employees who represent the state of Norway all over the world. International cooperation, responsibilities and assistance to conflict countries are important. This reduces the pressure on us to provide assistance to refugees and asylum seekers, both in Norway and the rest of Europe. For this reason, it has been important for the Workers' Party to include Norway and take that responsibility. Therefore, it was not very uplifting that we were told from home during our stay in New York that the new government had announced a cut in the contributions to the UN. It was not entirely in relation to the impression we have at least tried to create through the follow-up of appropriations in the period that is over. Part of this international responsibility is to accept those who do not have a future in their own country – those who need a new place to root. There was one theme that went back in almost every meeting we had in New York -- that was the situation in Syria. New figures estimate the number of people in need of 9.3 million, of whom 4.6 million are children, and 6.5 million are internally displaced in the country. 2.5 million people are now out of reach for emergency aid because of the safety situation, and outbreaks of polio are reported. The magnitude of the crisis is described as the greatest humanitarian crisis since World War II. In this situation, exceptional efforts and solidarity are needed. I was therefore pleased that Norway had proposed accepting 1000 additional Syrian refugees for 2014. In comparison, the number of refugees in the Balkans was 3 million in the worst. Then we received 8,000 extraordinary refugees. I am disappointed that the Right and Frp, with the support of the Christian People's Party and the Left, set up the weakest groups against each other. I note that during the financial debate, the representative Skei Grande pointed out that there are in any case 500 more refugees than under the red-green government last year. To that it is to replicate that in any case it will be 500 fewer than we want and proposed to accept next year, and that in any case it will be wrong to set the need for Syrian quota refugees in 2014 against ordinary quota refugees. There is no surplus of allowances for refugees in the world today. The institution of asylum is important to protect people from persecution or inhuman treatment in their home country. Anyone who comes to Norway and is eligible for asylum should be allowed to stay. Those who do not meet the criteria for protection must return home. This is the basis for a consistent asylum policy. The alternative to a consistent asylum policy is less predictability and undermining the institution of asylum. It has been an objective for us to ensure that as many as possible asylum seekers in Norway are actually entitled to asylum. We've succeeded in increasing that share. In 2012, the approval rate had risen to 58 pst. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees’ Recommendations shall weigh heavily in the Norwegian authorities’ assessments, but Norwegian authorities must, and also, independently assess whether there is a need for protection. Immigration to Norway makes Norway a more complex and diverse country. I think that is fundamentally positive. The welfare society in Norway is based on solidarity and willingness to deliver and share. Trust in the institutions of society and its citizens is a necessary prerequisite for this society. All obligations to end the laws of society and respect the democratic fundamental values. A strong welfare state contributes to good integration. Childcare facilities for all, a good public common school, safe health and care provision, social housing policy and a diverse cultural effort are therefore important for success in integration work. We must prevent the development of a classed society where people with a migrant background have a lower living conditions and a lower level of social participation than the rest of the population. Work gives individual economic autonomy and is the main means of combating poverty, equalising social differences and achieving equality between women and men, including for immigrants. In particular, it is important that more women with a migrant background are given the opportunity to participate in the labour market. Job opportunities, free core time in kindergarten and free part-time space in the school leisure system are examples of measures that contribute to integration. Yes, everyone who comes to Norway and wants to live here has an obligation to participate in Norwegian society, and we have a duty to help them make it possible. In the 1960s, Norway was very poor in terms of equality for women, but we made some political choices in the 1970s, 1980s, 1990s and 2000s that raised Norway to become one of the more equal countries in the world, with a very high level of equality for women. It's a result of political elections. The political choices must also be made in the field of immigration and integration. We have to make the political choices that make it possible for immigrants to be able to participate in social and professional life in the same way as the rest of us who live here. The size is addressed in our big message on integration. It was Innst. 248 S for 2012–2013, in the light of Notice. Item 6 for 2012–2013 from the Government. Then the parties essentially agreed on the intentions, but there are some major differences in how we want to achieve the goals. What remains to be seen, and which I hope the debate will clarify today, is that today's government will follow up with active policies to ensure high participation and great opportunities for those who migrate to Norway. One important reason why we have done so well with integration is that we have a general policy of balancing differences. As we demonstrated in the financial debate, the draft budget from the government is a budget for increased disparities and an immature family policy. We also find that direction again within the framework areas we are dealing with today, and I am absolutely sure that we will come back to the details in addition to the debate. Increased disparities in society will weaken opportunities for immigrants. It will also mean poorer integration and thus waste possible resources for the nation. Worst of all, it will lead to a worse life and worse opportunities for those who actually come to Norway to get a better life and rot here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1540	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1543	I think it might be right, as the representative Sivertsen is concerned, that a lot of goals can be shared in terms of the ambitions to get integrated people who come here to the country, among other things. that language is a good condition for work and that one must have a dwelling. Many people who have been granted a residence in Norway do not have a place to live, i.e. you have an reception to live on. We know that we have inherited a situation where there are very many – too many – with agreed stays that have not moved out to a municipality, and everyone is going to live in a municipality. We also know that the forecasts indicate an increasing number of asylum seekers next year. The IMDI reports that municipalities are expected to be able to settle for 6 750 next year, while the need is more than 4000 more, almost up to 11,000. The question is: does the representative Sivertsen take responsibility for the fact that the outgoing government has not done enough to repair these plugs in the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1550	At least we have to take responsibility for not having solved the challenges. Well, based on that kind of understanding of the question, you might say that you haven't done enough. At the same time, this is a challenge that we have met with active policies. We took the initiative to find a cooperation model with the local authorities' own stakeholder organisation, KS, because this is a huge challenge. It is a challenge that is not worthy of Norway and that we must continue to work with. I see that the new government is also very concerned about solving this and talking about a national effort. For our part, we've done concrete things. We have chosen to increase the grant to build dwellings. We have been committed to strengthening the local economy, which is the most important thing in order to facilitate a solution to the challenges. We have gone into discussions about increasing the integration grant. We can say that it is a challenge that we have so many people in reception today who have not been settled, but we have also met this with active policies. I can add that one of the reasons we have been given an accumulation is that we have streamlined the procedure, so that there are several people who should have been settled, who have not been given this clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1559	I listened with interest to the representative's comments and the observation that this is an area of great consensus, and that we share a desire to do things better, both on the integration side and for those who are not allowed to stay and who are going out. There are still 5,000 waiting for reception, which are to be integrated into the municipalities. The representative says that the previous government has streamlined the process, and yet there are as many people waiting. I could imagine hearing the representative's view of the government's proposal on a more differentiated reception structure. Let us see if we can have different types of reception — for example: two types of reception – for better flow in asylum recipients, both for those who come here and for asylum seekers, who are to be integrated and who are allowed to stay, and for those who need to leave quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1566	I am not ready today to refuse to discuss different types of reception if it can help to make more people live. However, the challenge remains to facilitate the reception of those who have been accommodated, and to get the municipalities to say: Yes, thank you, we will take our share of the national responsibility to provide protection against persecution in Norway – whether they come here as transfer refugees or asylum seekers who have been accommodated – we will take our share of responsibility. Then it is about making arrangements for a dwelling. This is about qualification measures. It is about facilitating entry into the labour market. We have the intention to continue working on this challenge, and to find good policy solutions that allow people not to sit in touch with life waiting. They will have the opportunity to live and move on with their lives in a Norwegian municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1573	The representative stressed the importance of people who have been rejected leaving the country in order for the asylum institution to function. After eight years of red-green government and policy, the result is that 5,400 people who have been denied their asylum applications and are going out still live at reception in Norway. In addition, we have 7 000 other people who have also been rejected, but who do not live in reception, and who we do not know exactly where they are. When the representative then reaches those degrees, it is clear that it is important to return people who have been rejected, why did not the red-green government make greater efforts to maintain the asylum institution?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1580	The premise in the line is wrong. The red-green government did a lot. On the one hand, as I explained in a previous answer, we made sure that the municipalities receive even more those who come to Norway and who are allowed to stay here. On the other hand, we've also done a lot with how we return those who are actually not allowed to stay here. First, let me stress that those who come to Norway and seek protection — asylum — and who do not have a legal residence have an obligation to leave the country. Many of them don't choose to do that. It will have consequences. We've increased the broadcast numbers. A very central part of it has been establishing agreements with the home country. We can't just fly someone to an airport and dump them there without having an agreement with the home country authorities. We've increased the appropriations, and the forced returns have increased. We're now up to 4,600, and we've achieved that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1585	The working party has managed the cash support for eight years and has not done much else with it. Nevertheless, we experience that the Christian People's Party is still being arrested and criticized for its cash support – on the grounds that it is going wrong for immigrants. We see that there is a relationship with the cash support that should have been adjusted, but my question is: Does the Workers' Party assess whether using the immigration group can be stigmatizing every time this argument comes up? After all, choosing cash support is a freedom of choice and a well-being that immigrant families should also have. My question is: does one assess whether the language we experience can be stigmatizing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1593	I assume that the representative Tuskedal from the Christian People's Party is happy that the Christian People's Party is linked to the cash support. As I understand it, at least the great wish of former Prime Minister Bondevik, so that we link the Christian People's Party to the cash support, can't be criticized. Then I'm not so worried, because it must be possible to hold a political debate in Norway based on facts, and say that there are specific challenges associated with getting participation from women with immigrant backgrounds in society and working life, when we know that cash support helps to keep more out of work even in the case of the majority population. What we need to take care of, in this debate as in everyone else, is to generalise and say that it is all, because it is right that the representative Tuskedal points out: this is a right that the inhabitants of Norway have, as long as it has been adopted by the authorities. This applies in the same way to immigrants as to the majority population. But it has a limiting effect on participation in the world of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1600	In all its alternative budgets, the Left has proposed to increase the number of quota refugees in the last eight years. The Labour Party has voted against this. In March 2011, the civil war began in Syria. This has led to huge waves of refugees across both neighbouring countries and Europe. In Europe, there are five countries that have taken 90 pst alone. Of the Syrian refugees who have come to Europe – I ignore the neighbouring countries – there are five countries that have taken that burden. There were probably as many refugees this year as it's going to be in the future. When the Left wanted to increase the number of refugees last year, the Labour Party was against. When they leave the offices, they're to increase it. So my question is simple: When did the Workers' Party discover that there was war in Syria?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1605	I had the pleasure of visiting Syria from February to March 2011, 14 days before it broke out, so I discovered it for my part in March 2011, if that was what the representative was wondering about. In the case of Syria, there is a situation that is in continuous development. As I referred to in my article, it has among other things. new figures showing that the situation is even more serious than it has been. That's why the Red-Green government proposed the extraordinary measure to grant money to receive 1,000 additional transfer refugees from Syria. It's not at the expense of the other transfer refugees. That's because we believe that the extraordinary situation in Syria will evolve. I don't think we're done with the situation in Syria. There was no political solution in the future when we proposed it – we thought it was necessary now to remedy a situation that has become dramatically worse in the last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1612	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1615	This part of today's debate – the topic of both immigration, integration and the institution of asylum – is such a central and important area that it has gained its own place in the government platform, the government statement and the agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. It is an agreement to have a ‘permanent arrangement ensuring a stronger emphasis on the situation of children’, a ‘one-off solution for long-term resident children and their families from countries with a return agreement’, it is about ‘closed reception and more differentiated reception’, and it is not least about a more efficient procedure and faster return of persons without legal residence in the country and criminals. It is about family start-up and family reunification, about labour immigration, about integration, and it is also about ‘trafficking based on religion and belonging to social groups’. [[sexual orientation]] The area we are now debating is central to the agreement between the four parties that have signed. It illustrates, I think, that this is an area that is important to the government and to national policies. I am thinking in my contribution now of focusing on integration and immigration policy, and say something about this also being more and more related to what we have debated earlier today, namely the local economy and regional policy. The situation in Norway is that labour immigration has increased sharply in recent years. Without the labour migrants who have come to our country, very many of the corner stone farms – small and large – had been out in regions, counties, towns and villages without having sufficient labour. The debate on immigration and integration has focused far too much on a small proportion of our new citizens, asylum seekers, and, last but not least, on a group that should not be in Norway, namely, returnees, or illegal immigrants, if you like. A major challenge in the coming years is to facilitate the development of policies for those who come to Norway to work. Some people go back to their homeland after a while, but more and more people stay in our country. From the Right, we aim to ensure that immigrants and refugees are able to take care of themselves as quickly as possible. We believe that there is also a need for improvements in integration policy, in particular to keep an eye on continued efforts in language training and the main source of integration, namely the ability to get into work. We believe that immigrants enrich our society, and that working life through the experience, knowledge and willingness to work they have and the ideas they can contribute as a result of having a different cultural background is a good thing for our country. At the same time, multicultural society also faces a number of challenges that need to be solved in order to be able to realise the individual opportunities of each individual citizen. It is therefore important when coming to our country, to use the first phase of language and social education and inclusion in working life. It is important that measures for increased integration target women and children in particular. The right in government, and otherwise in our policy, has been called upon to strengthen the introduction work. We have also shown in previous budgets that, among other things, will provide participants in introduction courses, with children in kindergartens, a better childcare facility, and expand the provision of language training for children in kindergartens. We believe it is important to facilitate the introduction of the introduction system for newly arrived immigrants and refugees into the whole family – not only father, but also mother, all of them. Basic skills in the Norwegian language are also important for the success and integration of children in Norway. It is important that we manage to capture all children with language problems at an early stage, and earlier than we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1628	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1631	Like the Right Party, the Labour Party also believes that immigration is a basic good that offers many opportunities, if we arrest them. The truth is that Norwegian municipalities and enterprises are asking for labour, something that immigrants can do to solve. I fully agree with the Right when the party writes in its comments that there is a problem for both society and the individual that there is too low professional participation among immigrant women. But it doesn't keep worrying. You have to follow up on the right measures. I'm not directly impressed by the government that provides a budget where you go away from the line of work, and budgets for more women to be at home. I would therefore like to ask the representative Schou how, in the opinion of the Right, the increase in cash support, cut in kindergartens, more expensive kindergartens and tax class 2 will get more immigrant women into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1638	It is not surprising that the representative asks this very question. It's about the basic different understanding of the value of today's government versus the other, that you know what the family needs best. When the Right in Government, and the Government, have proposed that the cash support should be increased, it is because we want the family to have this kind of freedom of choice. It is equally equally equally important that immigrant women come into work. Then the possibility of language training, being part of the Norwegian community, is important. But the basic value here is that the family itself is finding the solution – based on what they want – to how best to accommodate, not the Workers' Party. There is probably a difference between today's government and the previous government, by the fact that the decisions that can be taken in the family should be taken there and not centrally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1645	There are more than 5,000 in our asylum recipients who have been granted a residence and who are waiting to be settled in a municipality. KS believes that access to housing is the main obstacle to increased housing. The municipalities point out that the House Bank is a central player in finding housing for refugees. The government and the majority of the budget of the Municipal and Administrative Committee weaken the Husbank as a housing policy instrument. The interest margin is increased to double from 2013, and one will not continue the Red-Green Government practice with a continuous assessment of whether the Husbank's loan framework is adapted to the needs. It will obviously have a negative impact on the ability of municipalities to increase access to housing and to settle refugees. What is the representative's reason for weakening the Husbank as a municipal partner, when we know that the need for housing for disadvantaged people is precarious?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1652	As the main board member of the House Bank for several years, I have to say that the change that has taken place in the House Bank, making the House Bank a more directorate, was probably more worrying, from my point of view. Nor can I see that the change that is now taking place in the House Bank weakens the House Bank's ability to continue to be a social, housing policy actor. It is also important to say that the conditions of the House Bank's competition, in relation to other banks, must be such that we do not receive as much subsidy as we have had from the House Bank at this time. The changes are nevertheless such that the House Bank will be an important player. The challenge now is that municipalities do not have enough housing and that it is fully possible to get up and make it easier for municipalities both to build and to gain easier access to land, but also to settle refugees in some apartments.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1659	The situation in Syria is exceptional. The figures now indicate that there are over 4.5 million children and 6.5 million internally displaced refugees in the surrounding areas. The crisis is described as the greatest humanitarian crisis after World War II. In the additional proposal from the Party of Progress and the Right, the entry is cut by 110 million. kr in relation to what the red-green government presented. The cut is due to the halving of the number of refugees from just Syria, who have the greatest humanitarian disaster in modern times. It happens in a budget and in a country where you are at the top of all economic statistics. I wonder how the representative from the Right can explain that Norway cannot afford to receive at least 1000 quota refugees from Syria now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1669	That's how we accept 1,000 refugees from Syria. That's what we're doing. What we have inherited is a difficult settlement situation for refugees in Norway. There are more than 5000 people in Norwegian reception waiting for housing. It is expected that the next year will be about 10,000 who need the same thing. The crisis in Syria is very serious. The situation in several neighbouring countries is also becoming very critical. The government has therefore – and we have supported it – an additional quota of 500 Syrian refugees in 2014. In addition, 500 of the ordinary spaces in the ordinary allowance will be allocated to this group. And then this is going to be 1,000.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1676	That, I think, was an incredibly poor explanation of why the number of quota refugees generally has to be reduced when the number is increasing. There would have been a need to increase it more. In addition, the government says to accept the quota refugees that you think can be integrated more easily. That means picking out the freshest, the most educated, the least damaged, among the most disadvantaged people in the world. This is contrary to all humanism and to how we should deal with the quota issue. Can the Right explain what it is that makes them think that in Norway, in the situation we are, we should behave so that we do not give protection to the people who have the most difficulty, and perhaps are the most damaged, sick, or perhaps have become disabled because of the refugee situation they have been in?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1683	The crisis in Syria is serious. The crisis in neighbouring countries is also serious. We intend to contribute to the work of the United Nations bodies on the settlement of Syrian refugees. We must take our share of that responsibility, and we must also show solidarity with Syria's neighbouring country. On the question from the representative, Andersen, if I can confirm the number 1000, I can. On the question of how I can explain why it's still difficult, and why you reduce the number of ordinary quota refugees, I would say it's the legacy of Stoltenberg II. I hear the last government parties are talking about efficiency. However, the result is 5,000 people — cases completed — in asylum recipients, who are not residents. The measures for out-of-town settlements have not been adequately addressed. We've been in government for seven weeks now, but we're still going to show our humanism and facilitate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1696	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1699	The field of immigration, asylum and integration is a major field of competence, with some complex structures and impacts on society as a whole. We in the Progress Party therefore believe it is important and absolutely essential to define clear objectives in this area in order to succeed in the policy pursued. I would therefore like to clarify some of the objectives for us in the Progress Party and some of the policy instruments that will enable us to achieve these objectives. As a nation, we shall maintain and continue our humane, humane line and practice of accepting people who must escape from war, oppression and persecution, and give them protection. We must comply with our international obligations and agreements. I was also in the debate on the throne that we in the Progress Party have a fundamentally positive view of this with immigration into Norway, that it is very much positive that has come out of immigration into Norway. At the same time, we see clear challenges. But the main and most important goal of the Progress Party is also to facilitate in this area that individual individuals have the right and the ability to succeed based on their own efforts, regardless of where they are from, what they believe in, gender, age, sexual orientation and all other factors. We want people to be viewed as the individual and the resource they actually are. In order to achieve this, some basic factors and values have to be taken into account. That's why the most important thing we have to start with is the value and principle. We must not forget why people initially run away to Norway and not from Norway. When my family and I had to escape from some of the world's worst tyrannical and terrorist regimes in Iran, it was not by chance that we chose Norway and the West. Western and Norwegian society is based on some fundamental values, such as freedom for individuals, democracy, equality, human rights, political and religious freedom and not least freedom of expression. That's exactly why it's so good to live in Norway and the West, and that's why many of us political refugees have sought refuge right here. These values and rights have not come about by themselves, but have become the result of a vigorous struggle by freedom-loving and courageous people. If we want to keep these values and our freedom, we also have to be willing to fight for them and make it absolutely clear to everyone who wants to live here in the country, that under no circumstances are we willing to go on chords with these values that form the basis of Norwegian society. This should therefore be part of the integration work at the earliest possible stage. Unfortunately, we have had a development in which far too many parallel societies have developed where people who have even been born and raised in Norway fall outside and express a strong hatred for Norwegian society. There has been an increase in the radicalisation of very young people, who are a dangerous and dramatic development for our society, and with whom neither we as a nation nor the individuals who are radicalized and who end up in that kind of grouping are served. We can't have it like this, and that's why it's so important to clarify what kind of values we stand for. This should be reflected in all the work we do on integration in Norway. Secondly, we need to monitor our capacities within a number of areas in order to provide real help and care for people in a good and decent way to achieve the objectives I mentioned at the outset. By finding out what we have the capacity to do, we will also pursue a more realistic policy. We in the Progress Party hope that such an approach will open up the eyes of people on the left and make them realize that a country with five million people, after all, has its limitations, and not least that there is a link between the number of people you accept and the number you have to integrate in a successful and good way. When 5,000 people who have been granted residence in Norway continue to live in reception centres, it may indicate that they are beginning to approach a pain limit, that there is not a complete connection between the number of people receiving and staying, and the number of people who are able to live in a good, dignified and decent way. It's a serious development, not least for the sake of the people who stay at reception over several years, because there are no places they can live. Unfortunately, there is one of many evidences as to how misguided the policy of the red-green government over eight years was – a misguided policy that both Norwegian society and the individual individuals concerned must suffer for many years to come. It is also time to reintroduce respect for the institution of asylum. Under no circumstances can we believe that people under the basic right they have to apply for protection come to Norway to commit crime or refuse to comply with legitimate decisions that they should not be here. If Norwegian asylum policy is to work, it is important that we actually get those people who get their asylum application rejected in Norway or commit criminal acts. No one makes sense that people who aren't supposed to be here stay here for a long time. Today, there are 5,400 people who have been denied their asylum applications, who are still in Norway and live in reception. In addition, there are another 7,000 people who do not live in reception, but who are in Norway without being fully aware of where. On top of this comes those who are convicted, but not imprisoned, who are still in the country, and on top of this again there are illegal immigrants whom we do not know so much about. A large number of persons with a refusal to apply for asylum who occupy their reception capacity are precious to the Norwegian community and undermine the institution of asylum. Exports are therefore an important priority for the Progress Party in government. The experience we have now shows that increasing the forced transport of people who are not entitled to stay in Norway also makes a number of voluntary journeys. That is why we are pleased that the government in its budget is contributing to an increase of 1,800 more shipments next year, so that 6700 people are transported out in total. The most important change we in the Progress Party are happy that we've got a large majority of them on is to change the reception structure. We now receive two main types of reception: integration reception for those people who have been given residence and are waiting to be settled in Norwegian municipalities, where we start the inclusion and integration work from day one and ensure that these people get the best possible starting point for their stay and their start in Norway. Secondly, we also get return centres, where those who are not supposed to be here are settled, and where the integration perspective falls away. This, along with an increase in UDI of 40 million. kr, which contributes to the treatment of 1000 more asylum cases, 10000 more residence cases and 10 million. kr to the necessary ICT development shows a clear improvement also in this field of new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1731	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1734	I have been in many debates for many years with the Progress Party on Integration and the Situation in Oslo, the Groruddalen, etc. I have always been confronted with the fact that integration is not successful if immigration is not stopped, the flood of asylum seekers is stopped, and too many people are going to be able to do so. The last time in the election campaign was Per Sandberg, Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, out with very strong reports about what he called mass immigration. He wanted to halve it with different measures and said that we in the Grorud Valley would get ghettos in a very short time, for example. on the Furuset, where no ethnic Norwegian would live in 2030 because of this mass immigration, as he called it. My question is: When the government – the government of the Progress Party – increases the outlook for immigration next year from 11,000 to 14,000 and commits to receiving more, does that mean that the Progress Party has gone beyond the condition that integration succeeds in stopping or halving immigration?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1741	No, we still believe that there is a correlation between the number you accept and the number you can integrate into society. However, when it comes to asylum seekers, it is not the only form of immigration to Norway. It is also family reunification, it is labour immigration – there are many, many ways people migrate to Norway. We can't fully control the influx of asylum, but we'll be able to bring down the number that's coming, because there's going to be a clear signal out in the world now that Norway has tightened up. We accept those who are really persecuted, and we are far more effective in getting out those who do not have protection needs and who have nothing to do here in Norway. These things are connected.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1746	Now it is that if it was thought that asylum inflows and immigration were to be reduced next year, measures could already be assessed. The Stoltenberg government carried out austerity in 2009, when it was found that there were 16 000 to 18 000 in the number of asylum seekers. It has been chosen – in this government where the Progress Party sits – not to do so. I do not think the representative can refer to other measures that will actually bring immigration down to next year, as the Progress Party has said, is a prerequisite for successful integration. My question is: what I would like to get over to, and which I think is positive, is if the Progress Party is more able to discuss the benefits and importance of good integration measures themselves, and not just link them to bringing down immigration. I thought it was positive that councillor Horne praised free core time in the newspaper on Saturday. It was a whole new signal from the Progress Party. Is that in line with Keshvar's views?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1753	It is sad that the representative, Mr Bøhler, has not followed better. The Progress Party has had many integration proposals over the years, both here in the UK and not least locally. In Oslo, where we have run together with the Right and been in the City Council for eight years, we have taken a number of measures that have produced quite significant and good results in the field of integration, and we will continue to do so. Then it is not right, as the representative of Bohemia says, that this government has not implemented and will not implement measures to reduce immigration to Norway. I would like to ask the representative to take a look at the government platform and the cooperation agreement, where a number of solutions have been outlined that will reduce immigration to Norway. But it hasn't been done in six to seven weeks. It'll take a little longer. At least someone who has been part of a government party, who has had a majority for eight years, should understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1760	One of the proposals promoted by the Progress Party in integration was addressed in the context of the 2014 Municipal Proposition. In the setting, the members of the Progress Party say, among others.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘These members point out that immigration policy is a national issue and that it is obvious that municipalities are more compensated for their expenditure without having to pay for other important welfare services...’. The Progress Party now has the State Council responsible for the integration of refugees. Then we experience in this year's budget that it's actually a cut – a cut in the reimbursement of child protection measures of 240 million. kr. Nor, as far as I can see, are there any areas of activity that make municipalities better able to accommodate more people. What measures can the representative Keshvari refer to in the government's supplementary proposal to the budget or in his own budget position to the Stortinget, which follows up the comment of the Progress Party from June this year?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1771	The budget situation of municipalities and municipalities has been discussed during the current day. Many of the measures taken, which give municipalities greater scope for action, also benefit them in this area. When the government significantly strengthens school provision in the country, it is not that children who are immigrants or children of asylum seekers do not benefit from it. When you do something and give substantial money to the county roads, so that the county councils don't spend any money on it, it's not that that money can be spent on this field. All policies in this area are linked. With regard to the integration grant, which the representative Mr Greni initially mentioned, there is something – we meant it then, and we mean it now – that should be looked at. We should take this into account and see how this turns out, not least in view of the differences in costs between major cities and smaller places. But we also need some time to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1780	In many of these areas, the Party of Advancement is not obliged to recognize! The representative Keshvari said in his main post that equality among others. was a fundamental value, and that it has also not come off the sea. Some of us can tell the grown-up ladies that that fight has been hard, and that we have to fight it further and not go on chords with it. Equal opportunities are also not complete in Norway, not even in the Norwegian population. For this reason, it has been sad throughout the year to see how the Progress Party has proposed to adopt measures that could improve equality, for example. Immigrant women's job, which was cut last year. Now they increase the cash support, which makes it more profitable for someone to be at home than to be at work. Measures, such as free core time in kindergarten and qualification support, have also been opposed by the Progress Party, at the latest in the current year’s budget. Then I have to ask: is it such that the Progress Party has now changed its policy and changed its view, or is it such that they have not had any impact on their government policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1787	We have had a significant impact on our policies, and if it is an area where we have actually had a great impact, it is in the field of immigration, asylum and integration. But I think it's a little sad that the left-hand representatives are attacking common welfare schemes, like cash support, which they are doing over and over again. If the argument that immigrants, especially non-Western immigrants, are over-represented in terms of the use of general welfare schemes, such as cash, child support, economic social assistance or other things, can be used to remove those schemes, would it be interesting to ask the representative Andersen back: What other general welfare arrangements does the representative want to remove from Norwegian society, on the grounds that non-Western immigrants are over-represented and use these common welfare schemes, which apply to all living in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1792	Now the representative Keshvari is putting the case completely on his head. It was his posts I supported, where he said that equality was an important value in Norway, under which we were to build. It is then asked whether policy builds up under it. The Progress Party is the party that has systematically cut off the measures, both the qualifying aid, free core time in kindergartens and the job opportunities for immigrant women, for example. – actions that have been evaluated and are effective. They get people to work and support under a basic value that the Progress Party says they're now sharing. The problem of explanation lies in the Progress Party. That is why the question remains: have you changed your view of these measures, or have you lost the fight where the Right, hopefully, has won the battle over these measures, which are very important?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1799	It is a strange premise for the questions put by the representative Andersen that if the same projects have not been supported, the same organisations as, for example, have not been supported. The Socialist Left Party has done, or has cut in some organisations and strengthened some others, one is systematically opposed to equality or is working towards effective equality measures. That premise is not on me and us in the Progress Party. We have strengthened many things that will make equality in Norway progress — both locally, regionally and nationally. What's a bit of a challenge is that on the left-hand side, those who are concerned with equality, unfortunately, have forgotten some of their fellow sisters in this society, who are not as privileged as themselves. It comes to expression over and over again. You're more concerned with the number of women in the boardroom than with women, who don't have the most basic rights to choose whom they can marry, when they can leave home, and whether they can get a job. That should be taken over by the representative of Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1806	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1809	In Norway we live in a protected world – protected from refugees, distress, wars and disasters in a world where more and more people have to move across borders while we can complain about the drought and the headwinds. There are now more than 45 million people fleeing the world. Still new areas are being affected by climate challenges, wars and conflicts. Norway has a great responsibility to be a safe haven for people on the run. It is one of the many duties of being one of the world's richest and best countries to live in. Justice, predictability and humanity must be the cornerstones of our immigration and integration policies. It is important that those who have valid grounds for seeking asylum are promptly granted their applications and get their society moving. It is at least equally important that those who are not entitled to protection, for example: criminals, must get out faster, they must be returned. This requires increased capacity both for processing, for reception, for municipal housing and for leaving and for transportation. It is the municipalities that get most of the responsibility for the integration and refugee work. In recent years, there has been a gap between the need for housing in municipalities and the number of places made available. Some of this may be due to the local authorities' experience that there has been a lack of consistency between expenditure and government compensation, which has made it economically difficult to live and make good integration arrangements. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly called for increased integration grants and investment grants for municipal housing. I am therefore pleased that both the Stoltenberg II Government and the Solberg Government have seen the need to strengthen these arrangements. It will have a good effect on the willingness of municipalities to settle. However, I am concerned about those refugees who are not being settled, and it is unacceptable that a majority of refugees with a granted residence permit will not be settled by the deadline. Rapid residence after the granting of a residence permit is of great importance for individual adaptation to and participation in the Norwegian community. However, integration policy must have a broader objective than housing. It must also apply to employment. We need to facilitate even more people to identify themselves as Norwegians regardless of their residence or origin. We need to ensure that more people learn to master Norwegian and get basic understanding of society. Because that's the key to Norwegian society -- the key to work. It is necessary to facilitate the participation of all first- and second-generation Nordics in all social arenas as far as possible. It concerns work, education, culture, politics, sport or voluntary work. They must be sharing responsibilities and responsibilities in this society. Because we need a society that breaks down the walls and doesn't build them up. We have to create a society where everyone is seen as equivalent regardless of skin color, origin, language or background. If we do not manage to secure a stronger common identity, we will create a shared society where differences are increasing, the level of conflict is rising and more people are coming out of society to oppose. This kind of development is no use to anyone. Several common arenas, more bridge construction and increased intercultural understanding are essential. Too much of the cultural luggage of a person is part of the identity. By respecting the cultures of others, we also create space and respect for our own. For one of the most important things we have is belonging, fellowship and cohesion. This also applies to another group, which is not a topic today, namely people coming here via the EEA agreement on labour immigration. Finally, I will address a challenge that is constantly coming to light. It has happened several times that asylum seekers, among others. from Iran, they convert during their period of residence in Norway, with which they risk persecution and threats of life if they choose to practice their religion in their country of origin. I can only assume that Norwegian foreign authorities have understanding and competence about what religious beliefs and beliefs mean for individuals – especially for converts who change their faith. It is a fundamental principle that no one should be returned with the starting point in that they must hide their faith. That is why I am pleased that the cooperation agreement so emphatically establishes practice through the UN and the UNHCR guidelines and the Status Directive. I expect the government to follow it up, and that the practice, where converts and homosexuals are sent out with notice to hide their religion or lay, no longer goes on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1835	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1838	I would like to start by thanking the representative Tuskedal for a well-balanced and reflected post. I can join many of the points he raised in his article. We heard earlier in the debate here that we have a discussion about various forms of reception – receive corrected for return or for integration. So we haven't rejected it – without saying it's a good idea either. We had a debate here earlier this year, among other things. the opposition party Left – the party of friends of the Christian People’s Party – by its leader Trine Skei Grande expressed support and understood the good idea of closed reception. I wonder if the representative Tuskedal can clarify what is the Christian People's Party's understanding of what a closed reception is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1849	There's a series of tools that need to be used to get a good residence permit while they're here, and a good procedure. In that chain we are now working on different types of reception to develop it in conjunction with our cooperation parties. It's about reception for those who are likely to be, it's about reception, and it's also about closed reception, as we have on Trandum. We do not have any other agenda or plans to go into closed reception by our side, but we see that there is a need for a series of new instruments and measures to speed up processing and to get a better situation for those who are going to be and for those who are going out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1854	I thank you for your answer. I'm a little insecure, but for so long I choose to assume that the Christian People's Party with closed reception means a reception that we have at Trandum today. Another thing, which I also need to bring up with the representative of the Christian People's Party, who I didn't realize was inside his post, is the situation in Syria. What responsibility and role should Norway have and play here? I must admit that I am disappointed. It may not go much into the Christian People's Party, but I'm actually surprised that the Christian People's Party that supports the government chooses to agree to negotiate away extraordinary refugees from Syria. What is happening now, and as I have heard the representative Tuskedal present it in the debate, is that one chooses to go away from what has been important for Norway to say to the UN: We have 1000 refugee places – you have them! Now we go in and ear tags. First of all, we're saying that they should be from Syria. In addition, you go in and you say you should have a special type. Is the representative of the Christian People's Party comfortable participating in such a debate on the weakest groups?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1862	First of all, in the case of Trandum, as we were in the last session, I know too little about how a closed reception works. I'm too fresh, so I've made a reservation on it. With regard to Syrian refugees, it is clear that we have agreed to increase the number of quota refugees. It's been our wish, and it's been programmed with us. But now that we're taking in 500 more, there's 500 more than the Stoltenberg II government has actually received since 2007. So we think we're in on it, and we think we should help where the need is. But to those who come here, we're in at 500 more than the Stoltenberg II government was in. As the representative probably knows, the Christian People's Party has also been very concerned about this and is still.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1874	I must be allowed to replicate to the Christian People's Party that yes, there are 500 more than this year, but there are also 500 fewer transfer refugees than we proposed next year. And that's what surprised me -- that the Christian People's Party didn't stand harder on it and didn't put any more effort into getting through to it. I think that's disappointing. Then we have another discussion, which I think everyone in this room is very concerned about, and that's the settlement out in the municipalities. I hear the strategy of the government parties on the legacy of Stoltenberg. They would like to claim that, but it is a very simplification of the matter. What is the Christian People's Party's answer to how to meet the challenge of living all the people who have put their lives on hold, who have been given shelter and protection, and who are going to move on with it? We have said that we need to discuss tougher instruments if the municipalities are unable to take this promise. What is the Christian People's Party's answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1881	I was part of it. We work on a whole chain and look at everything they come from – from those countries – and until they are either integrated or sent out again. There this is one of the important questions that we have to address. We have long fought for both increased integration grants and increased investment in municipal housing. For the previous government it took a very long time to do something about it, and now it's finally in place. So it's interesting that there was a government from the Right and the Advance Party that had to come with it, to get it done. So we now believe that the municipalities are able to accept what is available. However, we do not ignore the need to introduce new measures in order for municipalities to accept them. We have an accumulation and a problem with those who have been granted their applications. It's a big challenge for the municipalities, and we have to make sure that it becomes an economy and a system – that we get it sorted out. As far as the picture of Syria is concerned, there is a situation right now. There are things that can change next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1888	I would first like to thank the Christian People's Party for the important work they have done for many years, with a view to sustaining the humanity of the asylum debate. It's been important. That's why the disappointment was very great, as it turned out that it was cut in the number of transfer refugees from the UN – even when the Christian People's Party had a hand on the wheel. And you can wonder what was more important than that -- what was more important than giving people a stay in such a critical situation that you are in when you flee from an area like Syria. I also noticed now that the representative Tuskedal pointed to the integration grant and that it was kind of increased now, and that is probably a truth with great modifications. Because in the proposal from the Right and the Advance Party, this post is greatly reduced. This must mean that the local authorities must have less money in the effort they are now inviting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1895	I first want to say that I think it is very good to be confronted – and that the Christian People's Party is confronted – in these questions. We have to endure that with our attitude and our fundamental vision. That is why I would like to point to the cooperation agreement that we have concluded with the Right and the Advance Party, where this area is where we may have achieved the most. That's where we've gone into it most thoroughly, and at the point after point, we've achieved things that make us happy to be able to go into the cooperation as it exists. With regard to the question of refugees via the UN, it is a matter of priority for us. We have a target of a higher number than what we have achieved now, we register that and take it further into our work. Our heart is there, and we think it's the right way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1902	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1905	The flow of refugees is increasing and with it the pressure on the reception capacity in Norway. An important response to this challenge is to reduce the time spent on asylum matters even more than we have done up to now. Fortunately, that objective is a cross-political agreement. Another challenge, which I want to spend the most time on here today, is how we can get to a faster settlement of refugees who have received a residence permit in Norway. Greater attention must be paid to the construction and integration work. Faster settlement is important for successful integration. I know that many people also in the reception apparatus believe that the municipalities do not show strong enough willingness to accept refugees. There are strong voices that want to oblige municipalities to accept the number of refugees they are being asked to receive today. Other voices make up persons for free residence, where the integration grant follows the person. In the Central Party, we believe that today's system should be continued. Good integration requires the arrival of refugees in a community set up to facilitate them and who believe they have the capacity to carry out their residence in a good way. There is no need for refugees to be coerced into municipalities that are unable to provide suitable housing, to organise education for young people, or to have the competence to implement the introduction programme. However, voluntary residence must not be impeded. Year after year of reception after residence is de motivating and hinders good integration into Norwegian society. I think we need to show greater willingness to listen to the arguments of the municipalities when we discuss what prevents effective settlement. We can probably find individual municipalities that do not do the job well enough based on a ‘we have enough with ourselves’ attitude. My experience is that these are the exceptions. The reality is that many municipalities have difficulties in providing housing and, in addition, that the costs of housing are not covered by the current integration allowance. We cannot expect municipal politicians to cut school and care to cover the cost of resettlement. This is the case in many places today, and I record that the KS has good cards on hand when they detect a gap between what the integration grant covers, and the real costs of resettlement of refugees apply to the municipalities. I am pleased with the red-green government's proposal to increase the integration grant by 250 million. kr. This has been continued by the government of Solberg and allows for a small increase in the rates received by the municipalities. The bet increase gives a positive signal to Kommune-Norway, which I think will contribute to a greater ability to say yes when the requests from the IMDi arrive. In the Centre Party, we believe that further development of cooperation with municipalities based on volunteering is an important prerequisite for good local integration work. Good relations with municipalities have been established by the Red-Green Government through cooperation between the departments concerned and the KS. My strong call is to hold on to that line. Lack of suitable housing is the main objection to the settlement of several refugees. I do not feel that the government of Solberg takes it seriously. The House Bank is a key player in ensuring that municipalities can provide more housing. In the government's additional proposal, followed by the majority in the committee's position, the interest margin on mortgages is, unfortunately, increased by 0.5 pst. in addition to the proposals of the previous Government. The red-green government increased the grant and strengthened the Husbank's framework so that the bank could meet the strong demand for loans. Last time, the loan framework was increased to 25 billion. kr in the revised national budget for 2013. Now there are other signals. It is clearly stated that it is not appropriate to further increase the loan framework in the House Bank. «Loans requests will be rejected when the loan framework is used up», is categorically stated in the supplementary proposal. A housing policy is signalled that does not promote the ability of municipalities to provide housing for disadvantaged groups in general. It is a negative signal that unfortunately will also reduce the ability of municipalities to settle refugees. The Government of Solberg also sends another negative signal to the municipalities when it weakens the reimbursement scheme for child protection measures for lone minor asylum seekers residing in the municipalities. Today the municipalities are refunded all their expenses in addition to a proportion of their own. The red-green government proposed to reduce the reimbursement rate to 90 pst, while the new government proposed a further reduction to 80 pst. The reactions from the municipalities have been strong, we have listened to the municipalities, and together with the Workers' Party and SV we have found room to continue the arrangement with 100 pst. reimbursement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1931	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1934	I would like to address a question concerning the establishment of asylum-seekers. In recent years, the challenges have been that there has been a strong overrun of the municipalities when it comes to the establishment of asylum-seekers, there has been too little dialogue, and there have been established asylum-receipts against the municipalities' will without any local concern. An example is an asylum reception in Lier, which burned down and was to be reestablished. The red-green promise that the municipality would be signed up for advice before a new asylum reception was established. This did not happen, and it is part of a trend towards taking the municipalities seriously. My question to Mr Greni's representative is: does she now see afterwards that the government has failed in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1941	There is no doubt that there are major challenges to establishing new receptions, and there is a difficult balance between what municipalities can say no to and what we need. If all the municipalities said no, we would lose the full opportunity to establish new receptions. I very much agree that this should happen in close dialogue with the municipalities. Personally, I wish that we now did not use funds to set up new receptions, but instead, all the funds we may have budgeted for new receptions were poured into a package for the municipalities to settle. It would have been a much better use of that money than to waste them by sitting an extra year in a newly created reception.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1947	The cord shift is over. The next speaker is the representative Karin Andersen, then the councillor Solvency Horne. Sorry – the representative Trine Skei Grande is the next speaker, and then the representative Karin Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1952	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I was very confused that SV was going to be larger than the left. Now we have to get used to this for the next four years and hopefully longer. The area we are discussing today has often been about integration, and today it is really more about immigration in the budget debate we have now. I think it's actually a positive sign, because it's about how we're going to receive people in a proper way. When it comes to being a refugee and applying for asylum, the last thing is a clear human right — to apply for asylum. Clearly, there is no human right to be granted asylum, but it is a human right to apply for it. If you have refugee status, you have your own status under the international legal system that we have. Norway has great obligations there. I will not underestimate the fact that the Left would like us to be able to take on more of our obligations, especially with regard to quota refugees. We've proposed it every year for the last eight years, and we've been down on it. We're glad that we now, in cooperation with a blue government, have managed to increase by 500, but we're not going to give up on it. We're also going to come back to that in the new revision, and I'm glad that we've got formulations that say clearly that if the number of asylum seekers goes down, the number of quota refugees needs to be increased. As I said in a line, it's going to be 90 pst. of the Syrians coming to Europe today, received by five countries. Four of those countries have liberal parties in their governments. Liberal parties have always been champions to strengthen the status of refugees and to take international responsibility when large waves of refugees come. I have spoken to several people who visited Lampedusa after the last great tragedy, who have stood on the beach and seen all the coffins that lay over there, and that in the first row there were only tiny coffins for tiny little children who had escaped from their homeland. I think that is an image that should also be included in this debate. There is also an image of how the outer edges of Europe have a much, much greater pressure on the refugee situation and the wars that surround us in the world, and that here in the north we only take a very, very small share and a very little responsibility in relation to what many of the peripheral states do. The population of Lampedusa really looks physically what others here are just talking about as a political symbol: the waves of refugees coming into their shores. If we hear the attitudes of those people who experience it, we realize that many of the attitudes we meet refugees are not something we should be so proud of. So if we look at the left, it's important that priority be given to transporting out those who have received a final rejection. It is important to maintain the creditability and respect for the institution of asylum and the Refugee Convention, and then it is important that we maintain the rules we have. That's what we in the Left have prioritised in our alternative budgets before, and now we've got it through. We have made an agreement in the immigration and integration field with the government. On that basis, we are now negotiating new legislation and new regulations. We're working on that, and I hope we get good solutions. One thing I've changed my mind about, and I like to admit it, but what the representative Sivertsen said is wrong – it's not a closed reception, because closed reception has a completely similar law that it had under the previous government. What we have changed our attitude to is a differentiated type of reception where we can now try out the possibility of making reception much more streamlined – related to whether people should be motivated to go home, or whether they should be schooled and trained in Norwegian, social and all the things needed to settle in Norway. I think we've tried out a lot of these models before. We tried, among other things, on return receipt of another model, which should not only motivate, but almost frighten to return. It didn't work out, so we shouldn't try it again. But motivating, putting people in touch with their family and establishing contact with their home country are the steps that I think are important in order to achieve a good return policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1978	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1981	If I get it right, the left will want us to increase the number of quota refugees that we're going to accept. But they said they had been voted down a number of times. Then I just wonder: why won't the Left now use its newly won power to get the number of refugees that the Left itself thinks is the wisest? We also see these comments that they have on page 39 – so why don't they now use the possibility they actually have?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1988	We've made use of that possibility, because now the number is increasing by 500 compared to what the Workers' Party had this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1993	I'm not going to cross this, but it might be nice to ask Left: how long are they going to owe the Workers' Party in such matters as this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e1998	We don't owe the Labour Party. We're just referring to numbers and facts. The figures and the facts show that the Workers' Party received 500 fewer this year than what we're going to do next year with the agreement we've made.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2003	The cooperation agreement between the Right, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left includes a separate agreement on the foreign field. Point D of the agreement deals with closed reception and more differentiated reception, and under the point reference is made to the Foreign Affairs Act § 106, where it opens up closed reception, as we have up at Trandum today. The agreement provides for the development of two new types of reception, integration reception for those waiting for the municipality of residence, and return centres for persons waiting for a refusal, and for some return centres to be able to accept foreigners who are being deprived of liberty under the first paragraph of Section 106. Does the representative of Skei Grande believe that Norway should use closed reception and detention more than today? Who's going to sit in a closed reception? Will it, for example? are it appropriate to use closed reception to families with children to be transported, where they are afraid of being transported?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2010	We're going to use closed reception just as it was done by the government in which the Senter Party was represented, and after the law that the Senter Party proposed in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2015	It was reassuring to hear. I also want to thank the Left for the job they do in these important fields. It may be that the representative Skei Grande should have wanted the SV to be a little bit larger, so that there was more emphasis on these questions. Then I want to challenge Skei Grande on a theme that we've discussed a lot today, namely housing and how we're going to get better and faster housing arrangements. One of the things SV wants to look at is for example: a system whereby those who have been accommodated can settle freely in the municipalities. We also want to work to allow temporary work to be granted to many more than today. We think it makes sense that people can start working a lot earlier than they get today, and that the way we deal with it today helps that integration fails to do more than it could if people could start working more. Does the Left agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2026	I just want to replicate back that I am very happy for all that SV and Left can do together in this field, and I think we agree very much. And then we all fight on our side. The reason why the Left has chosen to support a comprehensive proposal in the immigration field is precisely that we should not form alliances between those we sometimes fight with. When it comes to marine settlement, we're very positive about it. We're going to work on it. Maybe it has to hit in some ways, but I think it could be a good solution to get into a good integration. Then people might have been able to settle where they have a start on some roots – and then it's easier to rot properly. We're going to work on a lot of these proposals, and we're also going to take some of the proposals into the negotiations that we're currently in.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2036	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2039	I am very pleased that more people in today's debate have lifted their eyes and talked about what is of the great humanitarian disasters and problems in the world, namely people who have to seek protection from war and persecution. That is what asylum and refugee policy is all about. The situation is so serious in many places that there is a need for Norway to take greater responsibility than what we are doing today, cf. what was said here about the situation in other parts of Europe, where they receive considerably more. That is why SV has been very critical that it has been cut in the number of transfer refugees that Norway can accept, in the current situation. We are strongly critical of that, and we believe that there has been no reason to cut it. For many years, we have tried to work to ensure that the care of children in asylum cases is more weight-bearing than the practice has shown for several years. Some of these cases are currently pending court proceedings, and they clearly show that the requirements of the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Rights of the Child are not given much weight in the Norwegian foreign policy. It is true that if you are very concerned about not getting too many asylum seekers to Norway, you need to be more concerned about increasing assistance and also dealing with the serious climate and environmental problems that are in parts of the world than that, for example. the Government Party, at least until now. They have hardly recognized this as a problem, but all of us who have come through the period of education and believe in science know that this can cause millions of people to actually find somewhere else to live. When it comes to immigration, it's about freedom for people – freedom, exactly what we nordics like to have – to travel where we want to and live where we want to. This is probably fair that other peoples in the world do too. Now many come to Norway, also because of the serious situation in many countries in Europe, both in the south and in the east. I'm glad many of them get a job in Norway. It is therefore necessary to stop measures against social dumping. It is also necessary that we continue to assist them with information in their own language, and with language training — in order to do well and to be able to get a foothold in Norway — so that they actually have the opportunity to do so. As far as housing is concerned, there has been a lot of discussion about it today, and there are problems with it. SV initially wants us to look at new housing arrangements, possibly in negotiation with the municipalities, where we agree on how much expenditure they have, and that on the basis of an agreement on it, we can go over to a scheme where the municipalities undertake to accept the number of residents. SV also wants to look at schemes where you can live more freely, and also look at schemes where more people get temporary work permits earlier than today, for example. by means of an iris identification, which may give an identity giving an opportunity to obtain a temporary work permit. We are absolutely convinced that it will be a great advantage for integration that people can start working as quickly as possible, depend on their seas and enter the Norwegian community. So for equality in immigration and integration policy. I'm starting to be an adult woman and I've been in the gender equality game since the 1960s. There's a lot of fights we've gone, but there's two things that have been absolutely fundamental to it. One is freedom from violence, and the other is that one gets the opportunity to work. Both parts are crucial for women to have freedom, no matter who they are. Then it has been quite terrible to see how the Progress Party has cut in what has done that children can be in kindergarten and mother can get to work. I am pleased that the Minister for Gender Equality is now out and commends the measures she agreed to vote down last year, and I sincerely hope that there is a real change in the underlying policies, and not just a relative adaptation to government cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2056	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2059	I would like to thank the representative for focusing on integration. I agree that getting to work quickly is one of the most important factors in getting adults integrated. But I missed a little focus on school, which I think is the second support for integration, and schools for children with a minority background are no different than schools for children with an ethnic Norwegian background. Taking into account the results of the PISA survey, which appeared yesterday, where a clear decline for Norwegian school, especially for real science, is seen, I would like to ask what the representative thinks about the results — and the non-existent impact they have had on integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2066	I think the representative has to read that investigation one more time. It shows a slight slight decline, but not statistically significant, as it says. That means that one is within the error margins of mathematics. Moreover, there are increases for the other areas. It also shows something very pleasing, namely that second-generation immigrant children do it at least as well as Norwegian children. What I would be much more concerned about is that we can get real bilingualism for immigrant children. Then we are totally dependent on these children coming to kindergarten very early, because language development is very early – I know that, because I have worked in kindergarten for 17 years and see how languages are taught automatically if one is very young. Therefore, SV wants to extend free core time in kindergartens to younger age groups, because it is very important that children come to kindergarten and learn language – both their own native language, at home, and Norwegian, at school. It is vital that they succeed in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2073	I just want to talk a little bit more about the school results. SV's former leader Erik Solheim wrote in his book that one of the main reasons why SV had failed in recent years was lack of training, especially for the teachers. At the same time, we see that SV has proposed both fruit and green over the teacher's bet – I would have almost said – but enough about it. What does the representative think about party traps that have been out and thought that children must be bused around in Oslo, instead of getting the education they deserve, at the school they belong to?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2080	Here you try to spread a lot of strange myths. It is wrong that SV has put fruit in front of teachers. We've actually done both of these. So the brain is not alone in school; it's an entire body, an entire child, that's in school. You have to move, you need food, and you need good teachers. So we're very happy about that. We have started this initiative with a new teacher training and with continuing training of teachers. We support in our budget the whole effort of the Right in the training of teachers, so that Right will receive full support further – that is very important. But it's kind of creepy that you have to put it that the students can also get some healthy food, or for example. may also be allowed to develop their skills in a cultural school class, up against this commitment. So chubby and poor, Norwegian school policy didn't have to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2085	SV has a sincere desire to achieve good integration. There they probably share the view of the Christian People's Party far on the way. And we've been fighting for a long time to both increase the integration grant and get the investment share of homes up in the municipalities. I just have a little question now. When SV has to vote in favour of a budget where the actual integration grant is increasing, does it seem convenient for SV to now vote on a budget that is worse than that of the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2092	No, in sum, the budget we are promoting is much better for the municipalities, and it is much better for integration too. It is true that there is a need for reinforcements in this area, and in particular for housing schemes, where better arrangements are needed. I said in my main post that I believe that you should now engage in a real negotiation with the local government sector, find out what it costs to settle refugees, agree on that price and then make an agreement like this. in Denmark, where the municipal sector undertakes to settle the number required. I think we have to put in place some of these arrangements, because the way we do this now, makes for fewer people, if we in this room had been put in such a situation as many of the refugees in the refugee recipients are for years, I think many of us would also have been put out of work – at that kind of stay for too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2097	SV was responsible for the integration field over eight years, and the results there are also quite few. It seemed that the Socialist Left Party was more concerned about running around and giving false hopes to people who had finally been denied their asylum applications in Norway and who could not be here than about doing something about the real challenges we face when it comes to the integration field. But then I've actually recorded a positive trend in all three red-green parties, and that's that after they've left the government, they've started getting a lot of new creative good solutions and political opinions back in the field they couldn't solve the challenges. So my question to the representative is: what does the representative think are the main integration challenges in Norway, and how does the representative want to solve them?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2104	Maybe one of the biggest challenges is that we have parties that are now represented in the government, telling a story that integration in Norway is going very badly. It's not true, integration in Norway is going very well with many countries. There are very many immigrants – most of them – who are doing very well, their children are doing very well at school. So I think, first of all, that we have to start talking positive about what's going well. The second is that we have worked intensively, among others. for schemes like Jobjeansen, for women also in the immigrant population, where the tradition is, as it was when I grew up here in the 1950s in Norway, that mother should be at home, and father should work and support the family. You have to break those traditions. Therefore, it is also so important that you do not increase the cash support so that it pays a lot more for these women to be at home than to be at work and send their child to kindergarten. Then the children also learn Norwegian in a natural way, completely automatically, when they are small. These things have worked intensively to get in place, because we know that they work. They work on integration, and they work on equality, and we're passionate about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2110	I understand that the representative is very hung in this one project. I can mention that here in Oslo we have increased e.g. on «Quo Vadis?», Health Forum for Women. Many projects contribute to job participation – better health and participation among non-Western immigrants in particular. But what I wonder if the representative can explain, as she believes that the majority is mainly positive, is whether she believes that the overall picture and the objective result are positive, when we see that immigrant women have much lower employment rates than the rest of the population, and when we see that some immigrant groups are overrepresented on everything from child protection to crime statistics, violence statistics, drug statistics, etc.? Does she think that this has been a positive development and that there are no major challenges? The fact that some people are also at work, that the majority work and do not have problems, should only be lacking.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2115	First, I want to say that free core time in the kindergarten is not a project. Free core time in kindergarten was referred to by the Minister for Gender Equality this week as one of the most successful things we have seen in integration, and we want to expand that. I am very pleased about that, because the Progress Party has cut the appropriations for this every year, just as those in the Stortinget this year at the latest cut the allocation to Job, which is just going to what the representative is now saying is important, namely that women are going to work. So it's incredibly important to strengthen the positive measures. So it's true that some of this is about old traditional gender role patterns. There is no Norwegian policy based on the traditional gender role patterns, as the Progress Party and the Right now do, but on the contrary have a policy that makes children come into kindergarten, that they get cheaper, that there will be a free core time for more children of immigrant families, and that there are no schemes that make you pay to keep your kids away from kindergarten and not go to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2122	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2125	It has been a pleasure to be here and listen to the debate we have today, and to see that the immigration debate is not just integration but a whole chain. That is why it is good that both the Minister of Local Affairs and the Minister of Justice have also been present, because everything is linked to everything. On top of 14 pst. the population has migrated or has two immigrant parents. The shortage is commonplace in Norway today. Integration policy must aim to ensure that immigrants feel belonging and related to Norwegian society. People legally residing in Norway shall meet with demands to contribute and participate in Norwegian society. The government is concerned that we will succeed in the integration work. So we all know that languages are involved and qualify for participation in the world of work, and if you can get out of work, that's the key to good integration. Through the introduction programme and Norwegian training, newly arrived refugees and other immigrants receive basic qualification to reduce their path to work. Good Norwegian knowledge will in most cases be a prerequisite for getting a job. I am committed to strengthening local integration work, not least through non-governmental organisations and contacts with business. There is an incredible amount of good work going on in the municipalities. Some time back, I visited Ullensaker Municipality and saw the successful project that several municipalities in Rome have launched called ‘Job and School — Hand in Hand’. There are fire souls out there that we are so infinitely dependent on to succeed in integration. We are committed to measures for those who are far from the labour market and who at the same time fall outside today's schemes. It is a challenge that in some groups of women with a migrant background, there is far too low employment. Many of these women have weak Norwegian skills, and they also have a small network. There have been a lot of writing, and some representatives have mentioned this several times in the last days with free core time in kindergartens. In ours, the bourgeois parties promoted a joint proposal for a representative to combat child poverty where this very field, free core time, was inside as one of the bet points. So this government too will grant funds for free core time in the kindergarten. Preliminary results from an evaluation of the scheme show that free core time in kindergarten has had a good effect for children with a migrant background. Free core time has helped to increase the number of children with immigrant backgrounds in kindergarten and to improve their school performance than children who have not gone to kindergarten. Early effort is beneficial. I am concerned that we will build on the knowledge we have now gained from the report on the scheme, and then the government will come back with a good device on the free core time system. In addition, it is important to take into account that according to the reports of municipalities, this has also contributed to the positive attitude of parents towards the use of kindergarten, and a recognition of the importance of Norwegian pre-school skills to a much greater extent than before. I think a lot of the nucleus is right there. We need to get the immigrant population to understand the importance of language training early in order for these children to succeed in school and be well integrated into society. For refugees coming to Norway, the first step on the way is to participate in working and social life to be able to live in a municipality. Saying that we have had a successful integration into Norway in the last eight years is well to take a little hard on. So today there are more than 5,000 refugees with a residence permit in asylum recipients waiting for a municipality to settle in. This is more than ever. So among them are more than 800 children in families and 120 single minors. So from 2006, there has been a significant growth in this field, which does not seem to have been taken over by the former government. The proceedings have fallen to the UDI. Everything is related to everything, and the previous government should have thought about it and started a real job to get the residents who are in reception and have received a residence permit. Persons seeking protection in Norway and receiving it need to settle more quickly. In 2014, there is a need to settle far more refugees than the IMDi estimates that municipalities will do. As long as the municipalities do not settle as many people as they need, the waiting time in the receptions is increasing. That's why, together with the municipalities, we have to get a better and faster settlement than we've done so far, so that the refugees can get a faster start in their lives out in the municipality. I am also particularly concerned about the children who are in reception. Both children in the family and single minors must be given priority in the housing work that is so important that we get to the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2153	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2156	In today’s vote, the Progress Party and the Right have a comment saying that immigration puts the sustainability of the welfare state to the test. Then there is a broad consensus among the political parties in Norway that the working line is absolutely crucial for the sustainability of the Norwegian welfare society, and it is quite obvious that that line must also include immigrants. Nevertheless, we see that the Right and Advance Party in the Government are now significantly increasing the cash support, and they have announced that they will also extend it to two-year-olds. How can the Minister for Integration defend an action that is so focused on keeping immigrant women away from work and immigrant children away from kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2163	For the current year, we have had the budget of the Stoltenberg II government, where the Stoltenberg II government increased the cash support to NOK 5000 for 2013 for all families with children in Norway. Today's government is going to increase it to NOK 6000. I expect the same concern from the representative Pedersen also last year. Cash support is an option, a flexible scheme, for all families with children in Norway. You have to be able to have two thoughts in your head at once. We are fully aware of the importance of having immigrant women at work and having children in kindergarten and at school, so that they can learn Norwegian, which provides a good basis for further community building. It is important for integration. But for the government, it is important that we have a cash support that allows families to choose much more than the child password they want for their family and their children. Then it's not like we force people to take cash support, but it's important that it's a freedom of choice for the family.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2170	I am recording that the State Council is trying to pretend that the Workers' Party and the Advance Party are basically saying the same in terms of cash support. We don't, of course. The Progress Party has now signalled together with the Right that it will extend the cash support to include two-year-olds. The last time we had cash support for two-year-olds, or more precisely in 2009, was that 80 pst. of the two-year-olds who received cash support here in the capital area were minority children. The Right Party and the Advance Party are in their comments very concerned with the low professional participation among women. The council has argued here glitteringly why kindergartens are important to immigrant children, and was concerned that we need to make people understand that this is important. Does the Council of State realize that it may be a little difficult for people to understand that this is important when you say it, but at the same time pay immigrant women to be at home, introduce tax class 2 and make kindergartens more expensive?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2177	I record that the representative Pedersen is now stigmatizing immigrant groups who may have made a choice for their family: a desire to be at home a small period of early childhood for their children rather than what the representative Pedersen is talking about. Let it be clear: for this government, cash support is important in terms of flexibility and in relation to freedom of choice for the family. Some choose to be at home with small children for a small period of time. Here it's not about four- and five-year-olds, it's about one-year-olds with the extension to two-year-olds. The 2014 budget provides for an increase of one-year-olds to NOK 6000 per month. I am glad that this government is insisting that families be given greater freedom of choice. So it's important that we focus on the fact that immigrant women also get into work, and that they see the importance of being out in work and earning money and becoming self-sustaining. I'm more concerned about young girls with minority backgrounds today who take high school but don't get into work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2186	In Norway, in recent times, we have had events and groups that we can call extremes and that have expressed them. Then, July 22nd, and after that, a lot of attention came about security, preparedness and organization in our systems, and it was useful and important. But I feel that there are still extreme statements that come, both within ethnicity, within religion and in other areas, perhaps a bit random here and there. We experience that there may be an increase – I won't say about it – of extreme expressions, hateful plays, etc. I wonder, without having anything to do with freedom of speech, because I think it is important that we can express what we mean: how will the Council of State oppose extremism? Can we specifically expect an action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2191	It is also good to have the Minister of Justice present in the Chamber. He can probably answer this question if he gets a reply about it. The most important thing for me, as Minister of Integration, is that we have a good growing-up environment for the youth who is growing up today, that young people feel belonging, and that they feel a mastery in both school and everyday life. It is important to me, as Minister for Children and Integration, that we have a good breeding environment. Then I also register today that the number of hate messages has fallen, and that is a pleasure. But at the same time, we have a challenge, and this is an important area that this government will address. We are now working on several actions related to such an important topic as this. I also look forward to working with an anti-discrimination law that is universal, where some things can be included in what the representative is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2201	The government has proposed and will have a majority in favour of reducing the reimbursement of municipal expenditure on child protection measures relating to lone minor asylum seekers from 100 to 80 pst. It represents a cut in grants to the host municipalities of 240 million. kr, and several municipalities now say they will consider taking action under this reimbursement scheme. I am aware that half of this will be reduced by increasing the grant to lone minor asylum seekers, but it will not necessarily be equally targeted. What will the Council of State do to ensure that lone minor asylum seekers who require the follow-up of child protection do not lose their offers? And isn't the Council of State concerned that the municipalities will now refuse more to settle single minor refugees?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2206	Thank you for a good question. I think the important thing here is that we play with the municipalities to succeed in the settlement. So the Stoltenberg II government has put forward an increase in the fraction of 120 million. kr, or 10 pst., and this government has increased its excess to 20 pst. for minor asylum seekers and refugees with child protection measures. We have reversed this to the integration grant in order to make it easier for municipalities, but we have also specified it so that the 120 million will go to minor asylum seekers in the field of child protection to ensure that the children are followed up as well as they can. I think it is important that we now listen to the municipalities – what they need, what challenges they have – in order to put in place the best housing possible, so that we can ensure that the children and families who are in reception and who have been accommodated get their lives started in a municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2213	The Council of State says that she is dissatisfied with the settlement work, but starts by providing a budget where both support for the housing of single minor asylum seekers and the integration grant in general is cut. I would like to say that the Council of State in practice proposes that fewer should be settled in the municipalities with the arrangement that she has agreed to submit to the Stortinget. The question is, how does this relate, how does she think that municipalities should settle more people with less money? The second question concerns free core time in kindergarten. Last year, the representative Horne took part in a proposal that was totally against this scheme. You were against the qualification aid, you were against the job balance, you were against many of the measures that you are going through today. Then I need to know if it is such that the Progress Party has now changed its policy – or is it just a budgetary compromise in the government we are now seeing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2220	First, I want to thank you for the question. I would like to say that the integration grant is proposed to be reinforced by 250 million. kr for 2014 and that is the largest increase since the scheme was established. Then it's important what the municipalities are asking for, namely simplifying the arrangements, and we've simplified the integration grant so that you also get higher rates for children, i.e. equal to the rate for children as for adults, which makes it easier for municipalities. But this is not enough. We need to look further at the integration grant, so that we can cover a little bit more of the costs of housing in municipalities if we're to succeed in this field. So for free kernel time. It is true – if the representative had also got it along – that in our four bourgeois parties, a Document 8 proposal to reduce poverty among families with young children, one of which was a free core time in the kindergartens, was also linked to the introduction programme. There's something this government is going to follow up on. We have to be able to agree on things that now seem to work. I don't have any problems saying that this is a system that seems to work, and that can be positive for children who need language training.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2229	I am pleased with all the spin-offs that the Advance Party is doing. I'm just waiting for the next one, when it comes to cash support, to realize that it doesn't work properly neither for equality nor for integration. As regards the integration grant and the finances of the municipalities, it was the government of Stoltenberg II that introduced an increase in those grants. In the proposal that the Right and Advance Party presented to the Stortinget, there was a huge cut both in the integration grant and also in the case of the lone minor asylum seekers. The fact that, through the treatment and the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, money has come in that has subdued some of this cut is correct, but from this government and this council there is a cut in what the municipalities are going to use to settle refugees. How does this relate to the criticism that the settlement is too slow?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2236	I would like the representative to be equally concerned when her party itself was in government, that no more was done to get residents who have been accommodated, but who are still in reception. When there's over 5,000 sitting there, it goes without saying that we have a big challenge. We've had a few weeks to make a better budget than the Stoltenberg II government put forward, and we've done that by moving some money over to the integration grant, so that municipalities can deal with it in a much simpler way. Then I see that this is not enough. We have to get back to that. We need to have a dialogue with the municipalities to know what their challenges are. But the integration grant is increasing in 2014, and it has never been as high as it is next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2245	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2248	We live in a time of popular migration. Both immigration policy and integration policy are full of difficult choices and dilemmas. In Norway, there has been a wide-ranging debate on these policy areas in recent years. However, it has reached a very broad consensus on the main features of immigration and asylum policy, with the exception of the Progress Party. The contribution of the Progress Party to most of the debates we have had in this area has been to draw a very negative picture of immigration, to have a one-sided focus on the negative aspects of multicultural society, and not least to question the sustainability of the welfare state as a result of immigration. Last week I registered that the Minister of Justice was visiting Trandum. Then he said that it is important for him to learn what reality is like. Today, we can state that both he and other representatives of the Progress Party have already learned so much that they are also involved in immigration policy. I would say that it is both historic and joyful. It is very good that both in the government platform and today's position the party agrees that immigration is a good thing for Norway, and that the party also joins the cross-political consensus on the main features of Norwegian immigration policy, as the representative Keshvari also stated earlier in the debate. So it's a completely different tone we hear from the Progress Party today than what we've heard in this room before, and that's very good. A concrete expression is that while the Progress Party before the elections and in the years before it has been very concrete to quantify the reduction in the number of immigrants and accepted asylum applications, the Progress Party in the Government will receive more asylum seekers for next year. And one of the greatest efforts in the supplementary proposal and in the budget agreement reached by the majority is, of course, just half a billion to be spent on accepting and integrating asylum seekers into the next year. It is also a proposal that we agree to. With regard to measures to limit asylum arrivals, I have registered that both the Minister of Justice and other representatives of the Progress Party have talked a lot about it, but it has not been so easy to see what are the new, concrete, intrusive grips. I expect the Minister of Justice to make a concrete statement later in the debate. The Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, said a few days ago that the Progress Party in government has not changed policy, but rhetoric. It's probably the very opposite, at least I feel that it's like this in immigration policy. In one area, the new government is pointing out a different price from what we have done in the government, and that's what it's about quota refugees. I didn't think I was going to talk about what many others have been talking about before today, namely cutting the number of quota refugees by 500 in relation to the proposal from the Stoltenberg II government, but also about what is on the government platform, about changing and accepting the quota refugees that are the easiest to integrate. So it's not the need for protection that should be decisive for whom we accept, and with the grip you're giving here, you leave a long Norwegian tradition where we give priority to women, the elderly, the disabled and the refugees who are difficult to settle in other countries. I don't like that picture. I do not like the new policy when one at the same time knows that the top priority in the budget from the budgetary partners is tax cuts to the richest people in Norway. As far as integration policy is concerned, the Workers' Party is of the opinion that it should do its duty and demand its right to the immigrant population as to everyone else. We are going to facilitate, but also make demands, not least social participation requirements. It is not stigmatizing, it is a prerequisite for good integration and for the sustainability of the welfare state. And here the Progress Party has two different messages that are not related. On the one hand, you say: you should learn Norwegian and get to work. On the other hand, you say, we're giving you money to be home, and we're making it more expensive to send the kids to kindergarten. You don't have to have language problems to have trouble understanding that message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2265	There are very many people who are fleeing from war, distress and persecution, who want a safe everyday life and a good life – and many come to Norway. But anyway, it's crucial when you get to the country you're in after being on the run, that you get to know as quickly as you can if you're going to stay in the country or not, and what future you have. It is important for the individual who is entitled to protection to remain. So it's obviously important to be able to feel safer ground under your feet, to start your life again, to get a place to live, to let your children have playmates, to learn Norwegian and get a job. But rapid settlement and rapid clearance of who will be returned are also important for all those who have the right to our protection, but who often sit too often in reception and waiting. The more unfounded asylum seekers who come here and get their case dealt with, the more resources and capacity are taken from the handling of cases to those who are eligible applicants. We also know that the estimates for the number of asylum seekers are adjusted for the next year to around 14 000, and we have thousands waiting for them to leave after they have been rejected. We know that there is a need for more efficiency in work throughout the chain, and that here we have some significant challenges. Then we have too many people waiting to settle in a municipality. This is why it is an important initiative from the government when you invite all the municipalities to work hard to get more people to live faster. Much great work is also being done in Norwegian municipalities to ensure the introduction of Norwegian society and languages. The municipalities have the primary responsibility for the introduction work. It is very important and right that the integration grant be increased. So, as I said, it's just to see that it's a challenging situation that the current government has caught up with. There are many people with agreed stays who have no place to live, and there is an increasing number of asylum seekers. As I said, the forecasts have increased. For 2014, as mentioned earlier, the IMFI estimates that municipalities are able to settle between 6500 and 7000, while the need is rapidly up to 11000. So there is still a need here, rapporteur – no, sorry, President, I am back to old times – for a considerable joint effort. But when you're finally settled, there's a lot of things that have to work together. The municipality has the primary responsibility. You have to learn language and social skills. Youths are going to school to succeed. If we are to succeed in school, we also need measures to prevent falling out of school and having too much illegal absence — as we have seen some trends in some places. Kindergartens are mentioned. It is quite obvious that it is a good integration policy to teach children Norwegian early. Therefore, free core time has also been mentioned by several. We also need to get faster recognition of education and faster recognition of real competences for people who are actually on the threshold of getting out of work, but who face formal obstacles because you do not have the skills you actually have. We need to strengthen the work of women's work, which has been carried out by many, and the volunteer organisations still have a very important role to play. I am pleased to record that the government is following up on that too, and we are going to continue to work to strengthen their ability to carry out integration work. It is good for the government to keep a high pressure on immigrants to receive good guidance and also to be able to establish their own business. We often think that, yes, you're going to get a job – but there are a lot of people who want to create a job. How do you do it in Norway when you get here? It's actually also demanding enough for those who have grown up here, to set up their own business and create a job, but very many immigrants want it, and it's very important that we still have pressure on that work. I am pleased that we have a majority comment that says that the Norwegian Centre for Multicultural Value Creation, which is well established and has good results to refer to from Drammen, will continue to have a ‘special position’. So we have multiple challenges, from arrival to settlement, and we have cows in the system whether you're going to be sent out of the country, or you're going to be almost sent into the country and settled. When you're living, there's still a way to go. Although there is a lot of positive, we still have a way to go in developing a policy that works even better to strengthen the integration of those who come here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2294	As the debate and the figures show, there are challenges in having many enough refugees settled quickly enough. Of course, the fact that we have refugees with a residence and work permit in reception is not good for them. It also means that we don't get the opportunity that they actually get into work quickly and get the opportunity to live their own lives. It is the municipalities that are the recipients, and I believe that we who represent in this room must take seriously the obstacles that are rightly or wrongly discussed in the various local governments when the settlement of refugees comes on the agenda. Many municipalities are positive and do their best, but we also have to realize that not all municipalities want to be the best in the class when this theme comes up. The fact that a municipality does not settle for as many refugees as the IMF or the state wants, probably has some natural explanations, such as different access to work – i.e. the labour market – and, of course, lack of housing alternatives in central areas. In addition, the municipalities – I have been allowed to sit quite close to these discussions for a few years, both in my own municipality and with others – and once again rightly or wrongly, in some cases, that the settlement of refugees leads to the use of some extra resources in school and kindergarten, and that, if they do not come to work after the end of the social welfare period, they end up in the municipal budget because they have not earned social security rights that provide them with pensions or other state schemes. I think we should also take seriously the debates that are taking place in local government, and see that there are some things that we might have to look at a little bit more. After all, the housing subsidy and loan schemes have been strengthened. That's good. So we just get to figure out some inertia in the system. Dwelling areas shall be planned, dwellings actually to be built. It takes some time, for practical reasons. But when that is said, an agreement has been reached with the KS, and through it the municipalities, in order to get a faster settlement – which is absolutely necessary. If this agreement were to prove that it did not produce the effect the parties wanted, it would make sense, and even expected, that the government would look at further measures together with the municipalities and KS, which could ensure that those who are granted a residence permit here in the country would also have a suitable place to live, which is for the benefit of all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2309	Integration is primarily about becoming a part of society, a citizen of society. We have to ask ourselves why it is that children born and raised in an open, rich and democratic country like Norway are looking for ideologies either in the extreme right wing or in fundamental/extreme religious movements. Prevention is therefore crucial for the integration of every citizen and individual person. Most of the prevention work takes place through family, school, neighborhood, community, sport, volunteering, and through it we often learn the understanding of morality, ethics, written and unwritten rules. That's where a lot of integration happens. But we also have to bet on the measures that constitute a safety net for those who fall outside, those who may not have a family that can be there, those who are not part of their neighborhood, those who may be bullied at school, etc. In its budget, the government therefore supports the good measures that contribute to integration through dialogue and prevention. There is also a good deal of agreement among the other parties. It's very positive. Before I go into my next point, I would like to remind you that we must not forget that absolutely everything we are discussing in this Chamber, also concerns all citizens. It is not that there is one school policy for those with a minority background and another school policy for those with no minority background. All policies on school, police, defence, assistance, transportation, etc. concerns all citizens. However, I would like to highlight two areas that are crucial for good integration: it is work and school — that adults do not fall out of work and that children do not fall out of school. I miss this a little bit from the red-greens in the debate when we talk about integration. There will be a lot of extra measures, special measures, money, etc., but little about the big things that affect most people in society: school and work. The PISA survey that came yesterday can sum up the knowledge policy of the red-green government with one word: decline. Together, the red-greens had a clean majority to invest their record budgets on knowledge. You haven't. The games on the left were more concerned with legislating fruit and green than with betting on the teacher and thus also the individual student. In his book, Politics Is Willing, former State Council and SV director Erik Solheim writes: ‘Teachers must have the power and authority to create a good school. When SV has weakened its credibility as a school party after eight years in government, it is because it has not been put this great teaching promise in the centre.» Then we must not forget that an angry young 20-year-old who has visited the wrong environment today, perhaps a few years ago, was a young teenager who was frustrated with reading and writing difficulties in the classroom. Then you can ask yourself what has been most important for that boy in the years of primary school: Was it fruit and green, was it getting less lessons, or was it, as the Right Party government wants, to bet on the teacher – in continuing education – and on the individual student. Unfortunately, children who fall out of school are often found again either as young criminals or as young unemployed. It's a fact. We know that more people with a minority background are struggling to enter the labour market. In this area, too, ideological skyscrapers and the fear of LO have been more important to the red-green government than to release the individual into the labour market. Experiments such as quotaing and anonymous applicants have stood in the way of the most important factor in getting into work, namely getting a chance. One of the best ways to do this is for companies to make greater use of temporary employment. I believe that what is primarily in the way of people is the uncertainty in dealing with an unknown. Temporary employment makes it easier for many with a minority background to show what they are good for. This government is relying on an integration policy that assumes that the most important thing is not where you come from, but where you want to. Wherever you want, safe growth, school and work are the most important tools to get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2341	This government wants Norway to pursue a strict but fair asylum and immigration policy. To do that, it's essential that we think completely. Such a holistic approach has now been initiated by the Right-Fremskritsparte-Government, in cooperation with the Left and Christian People's Party, through the budgetary procedure. It is essential that we make the best possible use of resources together. The government will therefore streamline and improve the entire asylum chain from arrival via ID work, treatment in UDI and UNE, reception structure, posting and settlement. However, the challenge is to take over a system that has been lacking follow-up and priority for too long. There are now about 5,000 people – former asylum seekers – who should have been sent out of the country, in reception. They are no longer legally resident in Norway. Many of them remain in reception for a long time, and there is a significant imbalance between the conclusion of the asylum case and the requirement to leave. Former asylum seekers shall be returned either through assisted return or forced return. They shall be removed in any case and shall be expeditious after a decision has been taken. This is also important to ensure the legitimacy of the asylum institution and to ensure the institution of asylum against abuse. Once the Right-Fremskritspart government has proposed and received support from the Storting for a significant increase in resource use on forced return, it gives clear signals that it is not worth training its own return. We believe that this can also help more people to return to their country of origin through a normal assisted return. I'm asking Stortinget to notice that I'm not using the concept of voluntary return, as the red-green government has used, because it creates a misunderstanding with what is the reality. Once the asylum application has been refused, you should leave Norway whether you want it or not. It is not optional to return, but you can get help to return or be returned by coercion. With the budget approach adopted today, approximately 6 700 people who are illegal in Norway are sent out of the country by coercion. It is a record high figure and shows that the government quickly delivers also in the field of asylum and immigration. The UDI is also strengthened in this proposal by the Right-wing Party Government and the Cooperation Parties in the Stortinget. Increased procedural capacity and follow-up provide quicker procedures and facilitate shorter stays in receptions and faster returns for those who are refused, while those who are allowed to stay can be settled and integrated more quickly. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the government is working to review bottlenecks and challenges in the asylum chain as well as new reception structures. It is a major challenge for those who are waiting for their asylum application to be resolved to stay in the same place as those who have already been told to leave the country – or those who have been told to stay and settle and be ready for integration into Norwegian society. A more differentiated reception structure can help to facilitate both housing, housing and integration work on the one hand and a faster and more efficient return on the other. Finally, I would like to point out that there is good cooperation between the government and the cooperation parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, on how the asylum and immigration policy of the future will be. Despite some disagreements, I am sure that we will work together on solutions that are both invigorating in some important areas and that also take into account the importance of, for example: the interests of children and the legal certainty of asylum seekers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2358	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2361	I hear a government council that is forward-looking and ambitious in its own field of action, and that's good. I also experience a council of states that is happy with the means available to him by a majority of the Stortinget. That is also good, for it promises well that he will also deliver results in this area. We have been a little concerned that the Progress Party earlier, before coming to the government, was not very clear on how many people would come to Norway, how long they would be here and how fast they would go out. But then I read in the evening post on 27 November that the Progress Party will be closer to the Danish level of asylum, but you will not specify it. State Secretary Gulati says there are too many people without a basis for protection coming to Norway. Is it the case that the Council of State takes up the challenge of specifying how many are acceptable levels in Norway? What action will be taken to limit it to what is the acceptable level?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2370	I am a little unsure whether the question is addressed in relation to how many asylum seekers are allowed to apply for asylum in Norway, how many are allowed to stay, or whether it is the total immigration to the country representative's demand. The starting point is that we have to deal with the applications we receive at all times and use the legislation that applies at all times to determine the specific applications. In the field of asylum in particular, there is no doubt that many groundless asylum seekers come to Norway. We also look at the statistics on who gets and who doesn't get to stay. It is an important part of this government's policy that we should help to be consistent, so that groundless asylum seekers do not seek asylum in Norway, while at the same time addressing the asylum applications that come, quickly and effectively. And on that basis, the number is always going to be equal to itself. I can't say as a state council that we're going to grant a certain number of asylum cases over a certain number of years. I think the representative understands that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2377	Yes, I understand that very well, but it was very good to get that clarification in this Chamber from the Progress Party – that this is actually the reality – for earlier we have had debates where representatives from that party have described reality in a completely different way. There are also notified restrictions in the same newspaper article and on several other occasions, but I could imagine that the Council of State made this concrete. If I understand the Secretary of State's right, as he is quoted in the evening post on 27 November, there were already two concrete actions in the department today. Can the Council of State clarify what new concrete measures are to be taken to ensure that more of those who come here and seek asylum are entitled to that asylum? It was absolutely central to the Stoltenberg II government. We were able to raise that percentage; in 2012 was 58 pst. by asylum seekers entitled to asylum. Hopefully the proportion is also higher for the current year. What new measures has the Council of State actually planned to take to raise this percentage even higher?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2391	This is made up of two numbers. It is not just the number that is eligible for asylum, which is important to get up. It is also important to reduce the number of asylum seekers, and more means must be available. This government has already from day two started a lot of work in the ministry to see which instruments will have the most impact. Then you are in the lucky situation that we have excellent cooperation with the parties in the Storting with which we have a cooperation agreement in this area, namely the Christian People's Party and the Left. The concrete measures that this government will take along with the Christian People's Party and the Left will become clear when those negotiations are finally over. We're in that process now, and it's part of having the ability to pursue politics: that you have to be there when it happens. There is probably not the Workers' Party now – to the frustration of the Workers' Party and my joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2400	There are many different groups seeking asylum and qualifying for a permanent residence permit in this country. Now I've only been here for a couple of months, but I've received a surprising number of requests from environments that talk about converts, those that change their faith, and that experience great consequences. They may have to leave the family, etc., as well as other kinds of persecution. There are parts of the world where this is a big and perhaps new challenge that has been made very clear – unfortunately. Then it is that when they come to the authorities here in the country, they may not feel accepted, or they may not be believed. I see that there might be someone who'll wonder in this. We are fully aware of that. But I think there might be ways to solve it -- it could be how long they've been conversions. But will the Council of State do anything to increase the focus on that question?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2407	It's a complicated issue the representative addresses. These are aspects that will be assessed in each application case, and the Council of State will not give specific signals that the situation of converts should be given particular emphasis. It is obvious that our foreign authorities are aware of this issue, but it is also important to ensure that we do not abuse the ability to convert. It is therefore necessary to deal with this in each case without having a common view on everyone – that all those who convert will automatically be allowed to stay. It will be a completely impossible situation and create enormous challenges for the enforcement of the asylum institution. So it is necessary to take those considerations concretely into account in each case, and that is where the non-resident authorities do what they can.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2414	According to the cooperation agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, the government will develop two new types of asylum recipients – integration receptions for those waiting for the municipality of residence, and return centres for those with final rejections. The latter may be established as closed receipts, referred to in the Agreement. Does this agreement mean that the government has intentions to establish more closed receptions? Would it be appropriate for families with children to be housed in closed receptions? The representative Skei Grande got the same question from me in the reply box, and she could confirm that closed receipts would be used in accordance with the same legislation and in the same way as is being done today. Can the Council of States confirm that the Left Party and the Advance Party add the same to the term ‘closed reception’?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2421	I don't think there's any doubt that we're adding the same thing to closed receptions, and whether we're going to have multiple closed receptions depends on the need. Today, there is no capacity available on Trandum, and as long as there is no capacity available, there is a need to assess how asylum development is going to be and whether to prison more in closed reception than is the case today. There the cooperation parties have said that we want to make greater use of this opportunity than is currently the case, and if the capacity of Trandum is not sufficient, of course we need to create more closed reception points. But it's something other than the return centers. They're not closed reception. The new reception structure will relate to integration reception and return reception. The contents of the return receipts we're now talking to the Left and Christian People's Party, so I can't go into it any further, but those are the two types of reception plus closed reception. It is not that a return centre is a closed reception, although a closed reception is often used by persons to be sent out of the country, pending the enforcement of expulsion decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2429	For SV, the best consideration of the child is a high-hanging principle. So Norway has signed the Children's Convention, and it obliges us to care for the child at the highest level. Today the happy message came that Yalda, who is eleven years old, won through in the District Court with the case being said. The General Court also founded it on the issue of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. For eight years she's been bidding in Norway, she's talking drumming, etc. But this is the second time she has won the District Court, because UNE can only change the decision a little bit, and then those who have won the case have to go back to the start. This move-back-to-start policy has some unfortunate consequences, including in other case processes. It's like dealing with Kafka in the Process if the president can imagine such a thing. Does the Minister see the problem in such a back-to-start policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2440	Comparing Norwegian foreign administration with the Kafka process seems to me to be taking it far too far, and there is absolutely no basis for that kind of comparison. There is a safe and good asylum process in Norway, and it is nothing like the so-called Kafka process. The premise for the question is also not correct: that you can only change a small part of the decision and then go back to the start. I think it is necessary for the representative to read what is actually in the decisions and what is in the judgment on these matters before such claims are made. Then he will also see that what is real is based on the premise of judgment. I cannot go into the specific matter, but to claim that Norwegian asylum management is not working well enough in the field of legal security, with a characteristic that it is a Kafka process, is simply relatively unprofitable.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2449	I wonder if the Minister has read Kafka and the Process, because what is at issue there is simply that one is not aware of how one should get through this process. And that's exactly what these asylum families have experienced: they've experienced that they've won things – over and over again. They have not lost. It's just like being in the Cup – you win all the matches, and you never lose, but you still have to face the new team over and over and over again. You can thus in principle be in an infinite process. If you can't see that something actually starts to look like an infinite process – as Josef K. experienced – I thought it was strange. But let's end this. I would like to ask another final question: in what situations is the care of children most important to the minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2456	To the first question, I can say that I have had the pleasure of reading Franz Kafka on several occasions, and «The Process» I have been through more than twice. I've enjoyed it, because I think it's a great literary work that can also be used in a political setting when it's relevant, and I think it's not at all relevant in the political setting we're now in. Then I understand that the representative will know when I believe that the best of the children is to count. It is almost necessary to consider the specific issues that are being dealt with. This government has an agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, where we're going to pay even more attention to children's best than is the case today, but I think it would be a mistake to claim that the best of today's management is not given weight. The question is the relationship between immigration policy considerations and the best for children, and there we are now in a process of the Christian People's Party and the Left which is very fruitful and which will produce good results.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2466	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2469	In the discussion on how to succeed in integrating, on how to avoid getting what are called ghettos – coherent areas of decay, high crime, social problems, etc. – on how to build up the measures that are useful, it is important to be concrete and to use our own experience. I would like to highlight what is going on about upgrading the living environment, about these area initiatives that are currently taking place in the Groruddalen, Oslo Sør, Inner East, Fjell i Drammen, in some areas of Bergen and Trondheim – i.e. in the areas of the country where we have many immigrant backgrounds living together and where we have challenges associated with it. I am committed to bringing forward to the Storting how important it is that those living in these areas feel that they build attractive residential areas where they get fine outdoor areas, agree on actions that provide common activities, common arenas that provide good opportunities for development, build identity, build belongings, build belief that here we will be, here we belong. The joint effort to build something together – to build neighbourhoods together and to have tools for it – I will say that I have largely reversed development, as I have seen it in close proximity at the Furoset, at the Rome Sauce, at the Ammerud in Oslo. At the Furuset, for example, crime reduced by 60 pst. in a few years. It is clear that this is related to a lot of other things, but it is also linked to having positive, safe and attractive neighbourhoods. These bets are a positive development engine, which attracts a lot of different things. I fully agree with Mr Kapur that school and work are crucial, but there are also special school and language measures in the area initiatives, and there are special job measures – such as Jobbsjansen, which was mentioned here, which are run in seven parts of Oslo, including these parts of the city I am talking about. These things go hand in hand; it's the whole life we're going to build up in a positive way. Here's what we're talking about. Transport is involved in the bets, public transport, etc., justice and police, the ones I mentioned, sports, non-governmental organisations. I'm in the sports team in Groruddalen. We have to admit that we have great problems recruiting leaders in view of all the children and young people who want to join us. In other parts of the city and elsewhere in the country, there are leaders waiting to be allowed to join, while we lack leaders. The Sports Association has seen some of this and put in big cities to promote integration, but the Ministry of Culture and the Government should see if there's anything that monasteries, because this is just a tiny start on something that we have to realize that we need more of to help the sports teams succeed. I had a meeting with the Church in Groruddalen last week. Both the representative Kapur and the representative Keshvari have talked about radicalisation, and now the churches in Groruddalen are building up their own Groruddals bet. In the first place, they have five positions to engage in religious dialogue, prevention of extremism, along with other religious communities. So there are many forces that come together to build up something positive, and it's important that the Storting is involved in stimulating the initiative that lies here, in addition to the general welfare systems, the initiatives that bring people together. If we agree that free core time in kindergarten is good for children to grow up together, learn Norwegian early and thus get the prerequisites for success in school, then the next step should be to start with free core time in kindergartens as early as three years old. This is a crucial step towards building language skills from the earliest possible childhood. So to what the Left takes up in their budget remarks, where they commend that measure with the free activity school set up by the Stoltenberg government this year. A school in Søndre Nordstrand in Oslo is part of these district bet cities. The left is in favour of extending this type of measure, i.e. free activity school, to include those who cannot afford it today, into the activity school, with homework, etc., and that this should be extended to all neighbourhoods, all areas where you have free core time in kindergarten. This is a very good proposal and in line with the Workers' Party's programme. I hope we can work together on the coming year. In line with the fact that area deployment is the engine for all this happening – bringing together actions from different sectors, creating initiative and enthusiasm – I will finally encourage the government to now enter into negotiations with the Municipality of Oslo and the other municipalities concerned, to extend these efforts beyond the deadline set in 2016, so that you can have a broad faith in building this up in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2486	I agree with the speakers who have highlighted the importance of school in integration policy. But then I want to make a call to the Right that they have to decide what is the strategy. For the Right is out and takes the credit every time the results in school are good, but disclaims all responsibility when the results are not quite as good. So I'll recommend the Right to decide. In the previous debate, we referred to the terms 'honest' and 'fruitful'. I think we should also be when it comes to the PISA results. For there is a lot of positive in the PISA results, as the representative Karin Andersen was about to say. They show, among other things: That we're good at reading and writing, they show that there's less anxiety in classrooms. There's a lot of positive in Norwegian school. Then I think it's positive that the new government wants to continue the red-green bets on real science and on teachers. There's no disagreement in this room about it. The working party has also launched important initiatives such as reading, writing and computing, more technology, facilitating the work of teachers. I am delighted that we have – at least we have suggested it – a strengthening of the school health service. It's important. But if you're going to get to the disunity of school policy: if you're going to work in integration, yes, you're going to have to strengthen public schools; you don't have to start with Swedish privatisation experiments that have proven to lead to increased differences and less knowledge. If you're concerned with integration, it's the public common school that's the very best recipe. We'll be able to discuss school policy later, so let me go to settlement. The faster a refugee becomes established in a municipality, the faster he or she can participate in the work and society. Many have discussed this earlier in the debate. I just want to point out that there are actually 30,000 people living in a municipality since 2009. I feel that the position is trying to draw a picture of the red-green government being trapped and shocked, but that is not true. We doubled Husbanken's grant to rental properties, we have increased the integration grant, and it was also the red-green government that took the initiative to establish a binding cooperation agreement with KS. I have heard that the new government is occupied with the settlement. There is at least talk about it, but I haven't heard a single new, concrete action from this government, except that you want a national effort. It would have been very nice if the Council of States could clarify what this national effort is. Is there money to be put on the table, or is there any other action to be taken? So state councillor Horne said that children should be given priority. Then I find it strange to introduce a proportion for lone minor asylum seekers and the costs of the municipalities. Councillor Horne said it's important to listen. Yes, I fully agree, but we also listen – we are not just talking about listening. We have listened to the KS, and we have listened to our rapporteurs, who have expressed great concern at the proposal of the Stoltenberg II Government in the case of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers. But this cut has not reversed the bourgeois government. They maintain it, while saying that children should be given priority. It sounds kind of weird. I agree so far with the Christian People's Party, who in the budget position writes that there is still concern that a weakening of the reimbursement may lead to more municipalities refusing to settle this group. I want to challenge the Council of State: how will she follow up the agreement with KS? What action will she take if housing does not increase rapidly enough? The working party has been clear that we need to assess tougher instruments. If the cut to the municipalities weakens the residence of lone minor asylum seekers, will the Council take the initiative to correct the cut to the revised national budget? I sincerely hope so. These children deserve predictability and security. They deserve concrete action – not just great, beautiful words in festivities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2509	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2512	Much can be said about the changes made by the Solberg Government in the submitted budget, which is much unrelated, because it is picked from one place and filled in elsewhere. The money is redispatched to things other than the actual purpose. My heartbreak is about what the representative, Håheim, was also involved in, child protection measures related to lone minor asylum seekers and refugees. This is an allocation which concerns the reimbursement of municipal expenditure for residents of municipalities. The level of the post depends on the number of children who reside, the proportion of lone minors who need child protection measures and the costs per measure. I Prop. 1 S Appendix 1 for 2013–2014 notified a higher number of children to be settled in 2013 than that underlying it in Prop. 1 S, which in isolation indicates an increased allocation need of 22.4 million. kr. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party have strengthened the financial situation. 845 Item 65 of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality budget of 120 Mio. kr. We wanted to remove the proposal that was in Prop. 1 S, to reduce the proportion of the costs reimbursed by the State from 100 pst. until 90 p.m. because we've been listening. We've been listening to recordings. KS, municipalities and organisations have warned that reducing the proportion of the costs that can be reimbursed can lead to a reduction in the number of municipalities. It doesn't want the Workers' Party. The IMF reports that the current scheme has contributed to the relatively rapid residence of lone minor asylum seekers. Therefore, we are very critical of the government parties' proposal that the municipalities should only be refunded 80 pst. of its expenditure, in addition to the proportion of that group. The Workers' Party, the Centre's Party and the Swedish Labour Party therefore put in the money, because we see that this can have major consequences and unfortunate consequences for the settlement and follow-up of lone minor asylum seekers, while the government parties, with the Left and Christian People's Party, propose in their budget agreement that the amount be increased by 120 million. NOK, as compensation for the 240 million cut. kr. It is an amount that does not cover the original cut – only half. It is quite incomprehensible that the Left and Christian People's Party are involved in this which makes it more difficult for municipalities to offer good offers to lone minor asylum seekers. Yes, it is far from the arguments used in the debates to the realities of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2531	The Health Declaration says that immigration contributes to economic growth and makes us a more diverse nation, where diversity contributes to increased innovation and industrial development. That's good, a little surprising with the Progress Party in government, but good, because that's absolutely true. Figures from the SSB show that a whole of five established personal owned enterprises last year were immigrants, and they represent only 12 pst. of the population. Nearly 20,000 immigrants have a personally owned enterprise, and after five years they have on average higher turnover and employment than enterprises in general. This is very much in line with experience from other countries. In the financial debate two years ago, I referred to a headline in The Economist entitled ‘The Magic of Diasporas’. Then the clock had already passed midnight, so there were probably not so many who brought it. But briefly, it was about business networks of migrants that are changing the world, without us getting it all together. The contribution of migrants to economic growth is greatly underestimated in our part of the world. Good communication maintains contact with the country of origin. Trust and cultural knowledge are important for those entering upward economies with weak legislation. Migrants with knowledge of several cultures open doors across borders. The Stoltenberg II government started an important work with the founding guidance for immigrants, including: with contributions to the Norwegian Centre for Multicultural Value Creation in Drammen, initiated by the NHO in 2005. 702 people from 98 countries have taken part in the activities of the Centre. The result so far is 134 enterprises. The Centre received international prices and was to ensure permanent operation in the State budget for 2014. In return, the Centre would assume special responsibility for the development of similar centres elsewhere. In my previous post today, I expressed disappointment at the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party, which has cut more than half of the area effort in the Drama. With a pen stroke, the same parties also removed the important role of the founder of immigrants in the Drama was intended by the red-green government. It was simply not to believe. Using millions of dollars on a project that succeeds, and then dropping the whole thing, is no good use of public funds. Immigrant entrepreneurs are not a measure of increased value creation. That's why it was a relief when the vote came from the committee. There we see that even the government parties have realized that this was a bad idea and turned around. Then we assume from our side that a long-term agreement is now being reached between the state and the municipality of Buskerud, which ensures predictability and further operation of this important centre of establishment for immigrants.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2546	It was the false claims made by the representative Helga Pedersen that led me to take the floor. It is not true that the Progress Party has only had a negative approach to the immigration, integration and asylum problems and this subject. We've also pointed out the positive sides. I can show the representative Helga Pedersen our own campaign material that points out the positive aspects of immigration, from many years back – long before we became a government party. Secondly, it is a fact that the Progress Party has been, is and remains the innovator and the premiscible supplier in this field of Norwegian policy. It was the Progress Party that proposed compulsory Norwegian training first. We were stigmatized, ridiculed and accused of having a number of motives that we didn't have at all. Then this became the current policy in Norway. It is strange to be accused by the Workers' Party of having negative and bad attitudes, because if the policies of the Advance Party in the field of immigration, asylum and integration are as miserable as they are to have it, why in all the world have they been running after us all the way? In 2011, the Workers' Party set up an immigration and integration committee, chaired by Jonas Gahr Støre. When you go through the points that this sample came up with, it turns out that many of the proposals are past proposals from the 1990s to the 1980s and even back to the 1980s. One could read in this document from the Workers' Party that, among other things, wanted to call on imams to have minimum knowledge of Norwegian society, to have citizenship requirements, to ban sibling childhood, to impose four-year-olds who do not manage Norwegian well enough, to provide language support — and a number of other measures. All these measures are actions the Progress Party had promoted long before 2011. I believe that what you say must be in touch with the policy you are pursuing. When the media created a big case of the word ‘snickislamization’ – a fillet, a completely insignificant part of a national meeting speech by our party leader, Siv Jensen – who first ran out and took hold of it? Yes, it was Martin Kolberg. It was very important – also for the Workers' Party – to combat and tackle radical Islamism. I believe that the Workers' Party has to change its rhetoric according to their policies. There is no one who has, over the years – happily correctly – been running after the Progress Party in this field and adopted so much of our policy, not least our rhetoric, as the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2568	I also hope that the representative Keshvari will update on what the Progress Party has proposed and intended in Stortinget, and on what other parties have proposed and intended in Stortinget, because that is significantly different from what he now claims is the situation. That's how the words you use are sometimes misinterpreted. That's absolutely right. But it also makes that e.g. political party leaders must be careful in what words they choose, because they can fall on a land there, for example. extremism and discrimination are growing, and it is serious in a society. I finally took the floor in this debate to tell you a little about the school, but then the representative Stine Renate Håheim said a lot of what I was going to say. But the point here is that a good school of course is important. It's important to everyone. That is why we have worked intensively with Norwegian school so that more students will succeed. First, I want to say that these international studies are important, but they don't say everything. When the PISA results in 2009 came and showed better results, the Right was out and took the credit, but when Norwegian students in 2012 keep progress in reading and science and have a small — statistically non-significant — decline in math, the Right says that the situation is dramatic and that Norwegian school is almost in a free fall. I am asking for soberness in the debate and for the Norwegian school to stop talking down. Norwegian students and Norwegian teachers do a great job every day. They have good progress, and I am glad that very many of the bet areas that were set in motion by the red-green government are being continued by the new government. For example, the teacher effort was well under way. It's good to continue. The same applies to new teacher training, early work and several hours of training. It's reassuring that every time we talk about this, it sounds like the students were going to get an apple from time to time, they were going to get in the way of learning. I think the Right has fruit at their group meetings or at their meetings. They probably do, because they know that it does something about the attention and the ability to learn. That's the way it is with children. It is not at all in the way that you can also bet on the teacher, or that you can offer all children a cultural school class. Maybe it's a very good entry point for a lot of immigrant children who have such talent, or who learn better this way, and maybe they get something like that that that they're positively connecting to school, and some completely different opportunities to evolve. I would like to encourage the Right-wing Representatives hereafter to speak up positively, and not to overinterpret results and try to take political advantage of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2581	I use the opportunity to thank you for the debate. It has been essentially balanced, reflected and factual, but what made me take the floor was among other things. The representative, Mr Kapur, called for the Workers' Party's willingness to see other policy areas in the context of integration policy. The representative obviously may not have followed so well in my first post, so I will allow myself to repeat some of what I said there. What I said was that the welfare society in Norway is based on solidarity and on the will to deliver and share. Trust in the institutions of society and its citizens is a necessary prerequisite for that society. All obligations to end the laws of society and respect democratic fundamental values. A strong welfare state contributes to good integration. Childcare facilities for all, a good public common school, safe health and care provision, social housing policy and a diverse cultural effort are therefore important for success in integration work. That is why we have also had the line of work high on the agenda, because it is important for people – whether of the majority population or of the minority population – to have a job to go to and an outcome to live on. The working line is at the centre of the Workers' Party, also in the integration work. Under the government of Stoltenberg, 350,000 new jobs were created. Politics was an important framework condition for that. Two thirds of those jobs came in the private sector. But precisely because we see other policy areas in the context, we say no to cash support, and we say no to restricting the childcare facility. We want to expand and expand the nursery facilities, and we have targeted measures to qualify immigrants to participate in the work and social life. At the beginning of the debate, I had a wish to get some clarification on which policy is actually now in force for the Progress Party of the Government. I'm a little unsure whether it's been clarified so much. I can at least reassure the Council of State Anundsen that my emotional life is not so disturbed. I don't get very frustrated when the council says we're not where it happens. Governments must understand – with all due respect to report – that things are happening elsewhere than in the government where the Progress Party is now sitting for the first time. The Council of State was not ready, despite the fact that the media had clearly shown that concrete action was being taken. You don't want to share that with the Storting yet. We have to respect that, but we are responding to the concrete measures – as soon as possible – to meet the ambitious objectives that have been set. I note that several of the representatives of the Progress Party have accused the Workers' Party of stigmatizing groups in the integration debate. I find it a bit funny to get that accusation from that team, because it has been a basis for claiming that this is something the representatives of the Progress Party have done in the public debate for many years. Finally, we can discuss what a good thing is, but in my head, a good thing is a voluntary effort you do without any remuneration to solve a problem. I am a little unsure whether that is what is needed for Norwegian municipalities to settle several refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2596	I wish the former government representatives had been equally concerned about children who were in reception a few months ago, as they are today. Now it's like they're accusing us that we're not worried enough. So there are 5,000 people in reception now waiting to be settled. Measures are requested. Yes, why have these measures not come before? I note that several Labour Party representatives are talking about their desire for clearer instruments. Is it coerced? Will they force the municipalities to settle? Is that what they want? It could have been a bit tempting to get an answer. I wonder what the municipalities would have said if we had gone out and forced the municipalities to settle refugees. That's why it's been my goal to get to work. Now we have written a letter to all the municipalities – not like the previous government that only selected some municipalities, but all municipalities have now received a letter from the government to get a settlement for all those who need it. Then, too, I hear that people are concerned about lonely minors. We are now proposing that the special grant be increased by 120 million. kr in the case of the settlement of lone minor refugees. This will go to all municipalities that live in lone minor refugees, not only to those who decide to accept children in need of child protection services. It helps to increase the subsidy rates per child, from NOK 135000 to approx. NOK 185 000. It will provide better support for the lone minor refugees – until they reach the age of 20. We also propose to wind up the school grant and add it to the integration grant. This will increase the one-year rate for children in the integration grant, so that the rate for children is the same as for an adult. It will give incentives to municipalities to receive children who need housing. I am pleased that we have a solid agreement with the civil parties throughout the immigration field. It concerns integration and asylum policy. Only on such a basis can we succeed in the challenge we have. My responsibility is to integrate. Then we have to have the means to get a successful settlement and integration in place. Then we have to play with the municipalities and volunteers. We know how important it is with both language and work, and there is a lot of good work going on in the municipalities that this government will follow up on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2607	I have still not received an answer to the question I asked earlier in the debate. I hope we can soon get an answer to that from the red-green politicians, who are attacking the cash support with the reason that there is an overrepresentation of non-Western immigrants among those who use the scheme. When are they going to answer my question: If we are going to wind up general welfare schemes in Norwegian society with the reason that non-Western immigrants are overrepresented in them, what is the next general welfare system they want to cut out? Is that a child's contribution? Is that a living supplement? Is it economic social assistance? Is it social security? What other general welfare schemes have red-green politicians planned to abolish on the grounds that non-Western immigrants are overrepresented, and are overusing these general welfare schemes?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2612	It was the representative Sivertsen's reprisal of his own post that made me take the floor in this matter. It is very good that the representative kept the post he made, and it was extra nice that he came back and kept the same post again, to give us a wish price that none of us had pressed the button to want us, really – but anyway. In fact, poor school performance, low school spending, and too little further training of teachers are also poor integration. The Sivertsen can't talk away from it, and yesterday's PISA study gives us the fact. It is also the case that closing one of the doors available to people with a minority background to get into the labour market — temporary employment — also prevents integration. I've been talking to a lot of people over the years, and the most important thing for people is to get one chance. I've often heard the red-green talk about that when you don't get a mortgage. My question then is very often: How easy is it to get a mortgage with no job and no income? I think it was really good that Sivertsen chose to take a reprisal of his post, and repeat what he said earlier today, because it underscores my point: where the red-greens believe that there are the systems that will integrate people, the Right Party government believes that it is the society around you – the community, the school, the teacher, what happens in everyday life – that makes you become integrated.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2623	Just a small response to the government council Horne, who pointed out that she had inherited an accumulation of children in asylum from the previous government: Now it is such that the previous government actually proposed a new system of settlement, a better system that could go faster and built on a regional distribution of those who needed to live, in a system where the municipalities could mutually agree with each other – a much better system than the one-to-one contact between the foreign authorities and the municipalities that we have today. The resistance of, among other things, KS, which is also currently being led by the Right. We accepted when we had the majority that our proposal was put on hold, after a three-year agreement with the KS on faster and more efficient settlement. At the same time, we said that it was a clear premise that we had to see the results of the agreement after the first year. We could not sit and wait for three years, and then see that there was no result – then the situation would get even worse. With the new system, and with my background as rapporteur, I know exactly what I would do. I wanted to make contact with my neighbouring municipalities and make an agreement with them that Drammen, in whom I was rapporteur, could take his entire quota one year, the other municipalities could share the quota the following year, and then we could work on integration the year we weren't supposed to receive anyone. The progress game was not exactly a positive player to get a new system in place. On the contrary, it was countered in all ways, without the Progress Party having any alternative suggestions on how we could get a better settlement at the time. What it's about is propriety. These are people who have been given residence in Norway because they need protection. It's also about human rights. There's no place for people to be present because Norwegian municipalities are saying, "No, we don't want you." We also increased the grant for housing because that was what the municipalities themselves said was the biggest obstacle. Now the deal is almost every year. The working party's large-scale group met with the KS not long ago – it probably has been the other party groups as well. We raised the question there. I do not think we received a good answer. But it could be interesting to know what the government councillor Solvency Horne wants to contribute to getting a better settlement. As I said, it has soon been one year of that agreement, and therefore we find it interesting to hear what Solvency Horne now wants to do to follow up the agreement with KS.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2636	The representative Eirik Sivertsen has had the word twice and thus gets the word for a comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2639	I have no burning desire to extend the debate, but the representative Keshvari insisted very much on getting an answer to his question. To make it clear: we're not against the cash support because it's just about the immigrant population, we're against the cash support because it's an incentive that dampens professional participation. Then there's a special challenge because immigrant women have lower professional participation than the majority of the population, and then we think it's a really bad idea to expand the scheme. So the most important thing you can bring with you when you start in Norwegian school, is actually language. An important contribution to this is kindergarten. Even the Council of State has recognized that free core time in kindergarten is an important contribution to this. Then it is wrong for us to extend the cash support for two-year-olds. So you're going to spend almost half your life at home before you start school as a six-year-old. This is a bad policy to increase participation in the profession – which I have seen the government has also been committed to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2646	I will give Keshvari from the Progress Party right in one thing: the Progress Party has been a strong driver for the change of Norwegian asylum policy. It has been that the major parties have been more and more oriented towards the Progress Party – it sees this representative as a fact. But it doesn't apply to all the parties, and then we're back to what Minister Horne has to say – that one has come to an agreement between the centre party and the blue-blue government. That's not true. They haven't been able to deal only with the most important and difficult issue in the field of asylum: Should children's best ways be heavier, or only appropriate, in asylum matters? This has also been a problem in the former government. I don't think this is going to work out right away. Had it been resolved – so that it would actually be the best way for children to weigh most heavily, as SV believes – it would have been a fantastic saying, but I have my doubts. Finally, there are several who have claimed that the efforts of the red-green government in the school area have been too weak. We've got a new teacher training in place. It has increased the recent recruitment of teachers. We have established a further state education that has been more than ten times that of the previous blue government. We've got several thousand more teachers in the Norwegian school. We increase the number of hours in Norwegian, English and mathematics during our period – to name something. In addition, we have got a bet on free fruit and greenery and on cultural spherical provision in the school. These are very important integration measures. These are general measures, which make it possible for those who do not have it that easily, those who do not have good advice, to participate. When it comes to this year's budget, we are in the situation that all the parties are a few about the great lifts for the teachers. No one disagrees. The only difference between the red-green parties and the blue government is that the government wants to remove fruit and green and the free cultural spherical offer – that's the big difference. It's not like they've given priority to teachers instead of fruit and green -- they've prioritized it away. These are measures in which a target set goes in to strengthen education in school – we have tons of research showing – and the integration of new people into our society. The representation on which the Right is attempted is, in the opinion of this representative, incorrect.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2663	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2669	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e2677	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Helga Pedersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV Proposal No. 4, by Karin Andersen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party Proposals Nos. 1-3 has been included in the setting on page 74, while proposal No. 4 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on the proposals from the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative in a process that ensures better use of the Fornebu area and that can provide more housing and better collective connectivity.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The decision asks the government to consider taking a hijack. 581 item 79 Grants for the adaptation of the dwelling transferable.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set up a separate working group between the Ministry and KS concerned to review the reimbursement scheme of municipalities for resource-intensive services.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The size confirms the location of new buildings for the Arkivverket central depot to Tynset’. Votering The proposals of the Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left were not accepted by 56 votes to 43. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 17.30.07]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e6359	The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e6385	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it substantially.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e6388	No, we will vote in favour!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e6393	The Labour Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party have announced that they will vote in favour – that is what you do subsidiaryly! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e6411	The Labour Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-12-04.ana.ud1535e6447	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
