ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e43	The representative ine M. Eriksen Soreide, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. An application for sick leave has been submitted by Mr Karin S. Woldseth on 12 June and until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hordaland County, Torkil Åmland, there is an application for a waiver from the Grand Duchy from 12 June to 14 June, under the permission of the representative Karin S. Woldseth, for reasons of well-being. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Helge André Njåstad, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Helge André Njåstad is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e86	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e97	This is a very great day, and that's because the government's and the red-green policies for democracy, equality and fair distribution are being dealt with in a separate big message, Report. St. 25 for 2012–2013, Parts to create. In the more polemic moments of political debate, some of my political opponents tend to claim that SV is more concerned with distributing values than with creating them. I do not agree with that. On the contrary, I believe that societies that are able to benefit at all levels of value creation, of production and of society are creating more. There is also the idea behind this big message: countries with less economic differences, countries with wage formation systems that make it possible with less differences, countries with a tax system that makes everyone contribute, and with a tax system that is transparent and transparent, so that you can know that everyone contributes, are also countries where people trust each other more, where crime is often lower, where people often have better health, but most importantly: people have more confidence in each other. And the most important component of a democracy is trust. A key prerequisite for democracy is transparency and trust. This big message represents for me a settlement with the 1990s. The 1990s was a sad decade. The 1990s stood for bad music, ugly clothes and neoliberal economic policies: the belief that growth alone is enough for a country to feel good, the belief that if someone just grows very quickly and makes a lot of money, it drips on everyone else. The experiments carried out in a number of developing countries in the 1990s proved most sadly that claim. In many countries with the highest growth in the economy over the last ten to twenty years, differences are now greatest. It's a great tragedy, because not only does it mean great injustice today, but it also means that you've been playing a giant for more distribution, more justice and more democracy. One of the most beautiful things about Norway is that politics is made up of more than elections. There are many countries in the world that are democracies, there are many countries in the world that make regular elections, and there are many countries in the world that have great legitimate governments that implement policies they have gone to elections, but it is far from all countries in the world where civil society plays such a big role as in Norway. The number of members of non-governmental organisations in Norway is many millions more than its population, suggesting that our population is a very active population of civil society. But also some of the most important components of our system are governed by other than us elected politicians. Our wage formation is e.g. cooperation between the social partners. The reason why this is possible is that there is a trade-union movement that is strong enough to be able to meet good representatives of those who own the means of production and those who own the labour force. It's great with Norway. There is no doubt that the trade union movement and the way in which we have organized working life has contributed very much to the fact that our country looks like it does, that it is so well distributed in our country, with small differences, and that we are a country where people trust each other. It is historic, and it is very gratifying that today we are dealing with a big message that aims to make that policy possible for several countries that want it. It makes me happy. A few amendments to the vote: on page 9, second column, ‘this member’ shall be replaced by ‘this majority’. Then the Progress Party has fallen out of the comment on page 14, fifth paragraph. They have to be there. I am delighted with today's debate, both because a majority in the European Parliament has established a line for Norwegian development policy based on solidarity and not on charity, and also because I believe that the debate for many will make clear important political differences in this Chamber, which can provide some clues as to who should be supported in the autumn's choice of fair distribution, not only in Norway but globally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e116	The corrections made by the applicant's rapporteur will be included in the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e119	Economic development, power shifts, climate change, population growth, pressures on natural resources and large migration flows change the world and therefore the framework of our development policies. Here in the day I read a very interesting chronicle at NRK's statement by Henrik Thune from NUPI and Live Lunde about it. They say that Norway's policy has changed from aid to development policy, and that the next step must be to have a globalization policy that takes account of the changing world, that we need more and new instruments, and that there is a need for new thinking. Furthermore, they believe that development policy must be part of foreign policy, and I fully agree that it is linked. They also believed that the post as Minister of Development should be laid down as a consequence of it, but I do not agree with that. My point of referring to this chronicle is that we are experiencing changes that clearly affect the policies being pursued, and that there is an important debate that is now going on. When I started engaging in international issues as a young AUF, there was a slightly different discussion we had about aid and development than today – and it was at this sad 1990s, as the case-rapporteur spoke about. At that time, the discussion was largely about the gross injustice of the divisive distribution of poverty and wealth between countries in the south and countries in the north. Today we also have such differences, but now we see that many of the countries we talked about in the past, which were very poor countries, have now experienced great economic growth. The problem is that poverty has not disappeared as a consequence of it. 70 pst. of the 1.2 billion people living in extreme poverty are in middle-income countries. Economic growth has been distributed unevenly. There are huge differences within a country. The paper we have to debate now is just taking this into account and setting up a strategy to achieve more sustainable growth and a fairer distribution. Norway has a history where well-being is created in common, and where we share the good. We've built a society where people are at work, where the income from natural resources is going to benefit everyone, and where we have a tax system for distribution. Yesterday we celebrated the voting anniversary in Stortinget. Then I must praise the President for the excellent speech he gave, but it was also another who gave a very good speech yesterday, namely the Prime Minister. In his speech, he stressed the importance of women’s entry into working life for national wealth. Many believe that we have a high level of well-being in Norway only because we have oil. No, it's nice to have, but we've built well-being together, by people working, by women working and creating growth and contributing through the tax system. We can never impose on others our societal model, but we can share the experience we have in building robust tax systems, how natural resources can be managed, and how important it is that people are at work. All countries are responsible for their own citizens — ensuring people's right to school, health and elementary services. Of course, it is the focus of development policy. Democracy is not least emphasised. Democracy is a prerequisite for getting more and better distribution. The fact that people are heard, that you have the opportunity to vote in elections, that you have the opportunity to organize and have access to free media is important. The Communication therefore emphasises the importance of supporting civil society, professional mobility, free media and others fighting for democracy and rights in their society. History has shown that changes can be created from below, and then it's important to give people the opportunity to do just that. I think it's good that the message places great emphasis on people having access to energy. When 20 pst. electricity is not available to the population of the world, it goes without saying that development is difficult. Then we know that many countries have large natural resources that are not well managed, are not exploited, and do not benefit people either. The communication also takes into account the importance of food security and sustainable agriculture. We know that there is a great deal of pressure on food soil in the world, and climate change makes it very demanding for food production. That is why it is good that this is set up higher on the agenda. As I have said from this chair before, we have a large female dimension in agriculture. We know that in Africa, women represent 80 pst. the production of local food. But they lack fundamental rights, such as: rights to property and inheritance. Gender equality is therefore also important for fairer distribution. I am proud that equality is a priority in aid and development policy. There is a broad consensus in the Committee that we have a challenge in that many countries with economic growth still have huge poverty in their own country. But it's an ideological distinction in the committee when we come to some of the analyses and solutions. The right hand side and the front side have settled on a line where, for example: not be able to say that economic growth alone does not eradicate poverty. They stress that the market economy is a prerequisite for democracy, and they will not help to say that many countries have little left for the extraction of their own natural resources due to privatisation and poor contracts with large international companies. Government parties believe that this is actually a problem, while they believe that it is corruption that is the main problem. Everyone agrees that corruption should be combated, but we also believe there are other factors that are involved when countries get little left for their resources. The Communication places great emphasis on combating capital flight, corruption and tax evasion. It is also called for to support the work on international currency charges – which was also a battle cause when I was young AUFs. I'm very much in favour of this. But here too, the Right Party and the Advance Party are choosing a different direction, because they believe that such a charge will have consequences for free trade. Then we have the ongoing discussion about aid to countries in Latin America, where the Right in particular is going to push them off the list – which I am very opposed to. This will directly affect support for, for example: organisations fighting for women's rights and for human rights in general. They are also opposed to comments on transfers of funds to weak groups, i.e. to bet on social security networks, such as those with experience from, for example. The violence and family program in Brazil, which many of us believe is very exciting and interesting. So the committee separates layers on many questions. I am proud that the government is leading the way in the fight against unfair distribution. The message and the position we are about to discuss today is moving development policy forward in an important and correct direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e155	The size today deals with the message Share to create. Strictly speaking, we could leave the chronicle that was published by Henrik Thune and Leiv Lunde on NRK's opinion on Tuesday, 10 June, be the only thing that was said and adopted in this matter in today's debate. In my opinion, this chronicle is a very good description of what should characterise an aid debate and how Norway should organise its assistance in the coming years. Let me grab some moments in the chronicle that show that the aid policy is mature for change, but a change in a different direction from that of the message: ‘The world stands at the beginning of what we call the ‘Fourth Global Wave’, a solid historical shift of political, cultural and economic power in the world — the largest in several hundred years — away from the West, and south and east onto the earth, and down to new groups on the Middle East street, to the Internet and the media, which are changing the deepest basic conditions of world politics.’ That's what the chronicle says. That is well said, and that illustrates the need to radically rethink aid policy. As stated correctly in the chronicle, Norwegian aid policy for some is a nobility mark on what is Norwegian in Norway in the world. There is no doubt that some in this House are very tall and dark and are beating their breasts over what Norway is doing — but without reflecting very much on what we are actually achieving. Whether it is self-esteem that is rewarded, or whether it is the beneficiary countries of assistance that come out best, is not good to say, but there is every reason to reflect on that issue. Further in the chronicle, the authors write that ‘If Norwegian resources are to be effective over the years ahead, the content of the development policy needs to be changed. [[...]] Norwegian development policy is currently being challenged by a global revolution that quickly makes the world a completely different place from when Norwegian aid was received in its time.’ [[and other western countries]] It's unusually well written. They point to two key changes to substantiate the claim. It's a rapid shift of economic power east and south in the world, which is far from just about China and Asia. Of the ten fastest growing countries in the world in the last ten years, six are in Africa. And it's a emergence of a new gigantic middle class. Historically, we know that this middle class has always belonged to the West. It's not like that anymore. Half of the middle class in the world is currently non-Western, and the West's share will shrink to almost one-fifth over the next decades. In 2002, there were 93 psts. of the poor in the world's poorest country. Ten years later, about 70 pst. of the poor in so-called middle-income countries — such as China, India and Indonesia. Then it becomes interesting when the government in its big news reports that the middle-income countries have to ‘prepare for the end of aid’. The problem is that no timeline is specified for when to do so. Neither have concrete requirements and clear objectives been set in relation to what is to be done. That's remarkable. But if we are to assume that the figures given in the chronicle are correct, and that the government's claim that assistance to middle-income countries should end, then we can well assume that the total Norwegian aid must fall sharply in the coming years. In the chronicle, the authors continue to trace that the poor of the future will be in large and resource-rich countries that do not need assistance, and in parts of Africa and the Middle East where there is disorder and poverty, and where limited resources can be used. The main problem is mismanagement and war, not the lack of money. The consequence of this is that much of the traditional assistance, both state-to-state and through the UN system, will lose its relevance and impact. This is already happening. We see that growth and development are not created by government transfers from Western countries but by investments that create new jobs, as well as by good government governance, income balancing, tax systems control, management of natural resources and help to resolve conflicts. This is like reading the policy of the Progress Party. In brief, it is worth pointing out the following: Economic growth has been unevenly distributed over the last 50 years. It is said from the majority that a distribution policy will combat poverty, which is said by the same majority that opposes free trade and which builds customs walls – for example to Norway – despite the fact that we know that trade provides development, trade provides income, trade creates jobs, and trade creates wealth. In the world today, there are no democracies without a market economy. Even Russia realized that the time of the planned economy was dead. We know that free trade and ownership are fundamental factors for growth. We know that if Africa increased its exports by 1 pst, it would give up to 70 billion dollars a year, according to a statement from Oxfam. We know that developing countries are losing up to $160 billion a year as a result of tax evasion. If a better job had been done internationally to prevent this, Norway could reduce its aid programme. In the Communication, the government says that they will use the assistance strategically to achieve sustainable growth and improve the economic distribution. What really means by this, one can strictly speculate in, but that there is more freedom and more openness, I don't think so. We see that authoritarian regimes over the years have received huge amounts of aid — including from Norway. This has contributed to weakening human rights, creating an even greater distinction between poor and rich and contributing to arms buy-in and violence against the civilian population – in other words, a massive misguided aid policy that has not helped to improve the situation for which the aid is actually intended to cover. We have to think about that a little bit. We see that in order for the world's poorest to get out of poverty, they depend on educational measures, and they depend on getting a better state of health. Here, I think the communication is a little concrete with regard to concrete proposals on how to improve these measures. We also see regimes that have destroyed their countries despite formidable natural resources. An example is Zimbabwe, a country that has been run down by an ageing dictator with zero respect for its country and its people, but at the same time has benefited from the assistance of the world community, including Norway. Understand the one who can. As I said, the Communication does not mention education and health as factors for which we want to fight in the new development goals. It's a shame, because we know that education is just helping to lift people out of poverty, and it must be part of the intention to do so. According to economic experts, current aid has little or no effect in the beneficiary countries, because aid is granted to those countries with the worst economic policy. Then it's a crossroads that this message doesn't take into account how to improve this situation in the years to come, all the time we spend a lot of money on the table in the form of aid. Finally, it has been said by a government council in previous debates that one should look at how to use the State pension fund abroad for the purpose of investing. What we are seeing today is using the State pension fund abroad to invest, for example, in London's handicrafts or in Coca Cola's shares, etc. Why not use the State pension fund abroad to create new jobs, for example in today's beneficiary country of assistance, in order to contribute to the growth and development of those countries, and so that not the intention of this communication would have been to create a share but to create a harvest?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e212	Development is primarily created by sound national policies. International relations are important, but the choice of countries to meet globalisation and the desire of their own citizens for a better everyday life is crucial. Political institutions and processes ensuring the distribution of power in the rule of law, democracy and human rights are central. In addition, openness comes to the outside world, which stimulates trade and investment. The right will facilitate more local content in the development of its own economy. An open economy with stable framework conditions that promotes local and foreign investment and increased trade is a prerequisite for providing tax revenue for the public and for growing out of poverty. All countries — including poor countries — have the primary responsibility to enforce political, civil, economic, social and cultural rights for all their inhabitants. It has been a key element of Norwegian aid and development policy to promote social development that benefits a broad, poor population. Key elements of such a strategy have been sustainable growth in value creation, increased employment, the reduction of under- and under-nourishment and the development of key public services. Education and health services for all are basic services, which by definition must include poor and marginalised groups. The distribution aspect has therefore been a central premise. It has also been anchored in the principle of poverty orientation, which should both contribute to greater international justice and improve internal distribution in developing countries. I am therefore amazed to hear that some people believe that the message is a prior notification of distribution, because we have agreed on this for a long time. While both the Right Party and the Labour Party have worked, and are working hard, to create to share, SV shows a different political direction. Sharing to create is undoubtedly a desire from SV, but far from reality. For the sake of order, let me add that in those countries that have led a policy the longest on the outermost left wing, the distribution has been anything but fair. Ordinary people have had little or nothing, and the elite has had everything or very much. In a society or country where everyone has little or nothing, there is no distribution that creates growth. In Tanzania, the average is $4.65 per day when one adjusts for PPP. It is obvious that growth — and long-term growth — are needed in order for the country and its population to work out of poverty. Distribution alone will give no more. That being said, there is an important recognition that economic growth is increasing when the distribution of societal resources is more even. Distribution is important, but alone does not generate this growth – economic growth with good distribution policies, with increased trade, with equality, with the fight against corruption, respect for the environment, democracy and the realization of human rights. That's why the right isn't talking about any of these, but about everyone. Finally, the concept of rights not only refers to social and economic rights and the distribution of material goods, it also includes the civil and political rights that are crucial for a free and democratic society. I appeal to two questions for the Minister of Aid. Unfortunately, I believe that this case shows that the Council of State portfolio consists mainly of assistance. Clearly, the potential and scope of a broad development policy are not present in the red-greens. My question is simple: why is the potential of trade policy not to create fair distribution at all mentioned in the communication? There is no doubt that the value of the notification would have been greater if it had also been given the corresponding scope for the analysis of distribution effects for trade and investment, inter alia. because distribution effects through profitable business and paid employment are absolutely necessary in a sustainable distribution strategy. My other question relates to the fact that the State Council has previously taken the floor to invest more of the State pension fund abroad in the world's poorest country. An overall opposition expected at least an analysis and a discussion of SPU’s investment from a development perspective. Can the Council of State explain why this issue has not been included in the notification? The truth is, the world has had a fantastic development of wealth. First of all, because of economic growth, 450 million people have been working out of poverty in the last 15 years. In the last 50 years, the average income in the world has tripled. The common denominator is a more open economy and extensive international trade. Trade is the strongest driver of economic growth and thus the ability to create jobs and economic prosperity. It is economic growth that has been the main factor for the vast majority of people to work out of poverty. It is therefore a primary objective of the Right that our development policy should contribute to increased economic growth. Economic differences between countries generally decline, as emerging economies grow faster than the most developed economies. But here's the big inequality. At the same time, differences within a number of countries are increasing both in terms of income and access to basic welfare services. Discriminating and poor population groups in most regions do not participate in economic growth. Of course, growth needs to be distributed in order to grant rights to the poorest and marginalised. However, there are a number of reasons for poor distribution beyond lack of allocation policy or poor allocation policy. Discrimination and non-regulation are often two important reasons. It is important to highlight the link between distribution and growth growth. For the Right, it is important that each cooperating country should have the highest possible ownership of its own economic development. The majority of the world’s poor are in middle-income countries — a major change only in the last ten years. This is primarily a distribution challenge, not a development problem. Democracy, equal rights to education and enhanced civil society are more appropriate instruments to address this problem. In addition, national distribution policies are included. There are still too many poor, but at the same time there is reason to rejoice that the proportion of poor is at the lowest ever. A completely different central development is that both the number of democracies and the proportion of the population of democracies are increasing. According to Freedom House, three-quarters of the world's country is free or partly free. The number of democracies has doubled in the last 30 years. There are no democracies without a market economy. Openness and freedom of choice are fundamental to giving people power and influence. Free trade and ownership are key components to achieve this. Closed countries are only able to achieve economic growth to a limited extent — and thus also to distribute resources internally in their own population. It is important to emphasise coherence in development policy, i.e.: to help all Norwegian policies towards other countries move in the same direction, whether in terms of trade policy, aid, education policy or health policy. Right will pursue a coherent development policy with objectives of increased democratisation and respect for human rights, and help people to work long-term out of poverty. The objectives must also lead Norwegian trade policy. In parallel with significant aid efforts, Norway has maintained high customs barriers and defended a trade policy that creates effective barriers to the export opportunities of developing countries. This is a striking contradiction in Norwegian policy, and it contributes to less distribution and crooks of distributed wealth. The OECD has estimated that agricultural aid in developed countries amounts to 300 billion. dollars a year. It's almost three times as much as all official assistance. Improving the opportunities for developing countries to participate in the global economy is a prerequisite for people to work out of poverty on a sustainable basis. Trade and economic growth are the strongest driving forces for people to work out of poverty, and are thus strong components for distribution. Corruption is a significant obstacle to economic development. Corruption undermines the rule of law and democracy, leads to decisions being contrary to the interests of the community, and deterrents investors. Unfortunately, it is the poorest who are hit hardest by corruption. It is those who cannot afford to pay bribes to safeguard their rights and who have to bear the main burden of the impact of corruption on the economy, employment and the environment. The population of a number of countries has little left for the extraction of valuable natural resources such as minerals and petroleum. Corruption steals resources, and in many places huge gains are reaped by the circle around those who sit with power. In some cases, the benefit of selected ones is ensured through biased privatisation measures. In other cases, poor contracts with large international companies help the population to remain disproportionately low. It's wrong what the representative Eva Kristin Hansen said. The notes relating to international mining and petroleum activities in terms of distribution and anti-corruption — both privatisation measures and contracts — are both better formulated and more extensive at the opposition than at the position. That's why the opposition is standing together, and the position is close to a short note. The fight against corruption thus became a crucial part of the fight against poverty, and is a very important tool for giving individuals more power over their own lives. Anti-corruption is good distribution policy. To make poverty response more effective, more targeted efforts are needed — especially against vulnerable groups. It is crucial to address ever-increasing differences, including in middle-income countries. Girls and women, especially those living in rural areas, belong to many vulnerable groups. 70 pst. of the world's poor are girls and women. In its 2011 annual report, the World Bank showed that discrimination against women slows down economic growth and that gender equality is one of the most effective tools in the fight against poverty. Let me add, as many have done before me, that the Norwegian wealth comes first of all from all those who contribute to the Norwegian labour market. Without such a large proportion of women in the Norwegian labour market, Norway’s prosperity would have been significantly lower than it is today. It should be the main growth component when we speak Norwegian policy. It's about inclusion in the world of work. Furthermore, the World Bank says that women’s political participation leads to better public services — in terms of water supply, schooling and less corruption. The UN Secretary-General has argued that gender inequality is slowing the development of all the eight thousand-year targets. I totally agree. An evaluation from 2012 showed that Norway has not, in practice, adequately included children with disabilities in education assistance. It is therefore gratifying that a Joint Committee considers that clear guidelines should be put in place to ensure that children with disabilities are given their right to education and that it must also be provided with its own resources for this work. Although a greater proportion of children in many low-income countries start in primary school, there is often an overcrowded classroom without adequate teaching material and an acute shortage of qualified teachers. There is an enormous need for assistance to improve the learning environment, and thus the professional return of school, in many low-income countries. I am proud that Norway has spent not only a lot of money but knowledge and resources on education in the aid over a long period of time. We're going to keep doing that. One of the distinctions between today's government and an overall opposition is that the opposition wants to reinforce that effort. Finally, Norway aims to implement country-by-country reporting rules from 1 January 2014. The Committee emphasises the importance of being early on in this work even if other countries come after it. I am very pleased, and the majority of the Committee, i.e. the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, wanted to show that a working group set up by the Ministry of Finance to address country-to-country reporting requirements in Norwegian legislation, is proposing more comprehensive reporting than that resulting from the proposal for EU rules. The majority here, like the working group, believe that reporting requirements in addition to payments to authorities must also include requirements for other reporting of investments – sales income, production, etc. – broken down by country in which the reporting agents operate and that information must be provided on the reporting subsidiaries and where the information shows that the subsidiaries are resident. This is important, and a total accumulation is behind it. I think it will have an effect internationally. Finally, thank you to the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party. This message has shown that we share a lot of common thoughts. I am convinced that the possibility of developing a common development policy after the elections will be great.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e256	Yesterday we celebrated the 100th anniversary of the general voting rights. One of the most important premises that Norway could become one of the world's first countries in which women were given the right to vote in elections to the National Assembly was the small differences we have had in Norwegian society. A free peasantry, a small upper class and no noble gave opportunities for the emergence of democracy. Sharing to create has been a title several of us have stumbled a little – let's underline it. Usually we focus on creating to divide, but small differences are a measure in themselves. It is therefore essential that distribution is given an increasingly important role in our development policy. On the part of the Centre Party, I am particularly pleased that agriculture and increased food security are given so much importance in the main message. Agriculture accounts for a very large share of gross domestic product in many developing countries. Growth and development of the agricultural sector are essential both for food security and poverty reduction. Each country has the right and obligation to produce food for its own population. We know that trade can also contribute to growth, but trade must be in addition to national production. Exports from developing countries must not interfere with their own food security. The Committee draws attention in its position to resource shortages, pressures on food soils and climate change that pose a threat to the good development of world food production. There's a reason to repeat that 1 pst. growth in the agricultural sector will be about four times more effective in reducing poverty than growth in other sectors of the economy. However, only approx. 4 pst. total world support for the development of agriculture in developing countries. The government has put forward a separate food safety strategy that adds up to an increase in food security aid of 500 million. kr over a period of three years. Today, Norway is nearly 1 billion. kr annually for various measures in the field of food safety. The food strategy emphasises increased food production, in particular by strengthening climate-resilient small-scale agriculture. The aim is to reduce the effects of climate variation and erosion and to increase yields. Let's stress that there's probably enough food in the world. The problem is, on the one hand, unfair distribution, and, on the other, lack of distribution. One third of the food never comes to those who need it. Most of the food in the world is local food. A very small part of the food produced is on the world market – between 10 pst. and 15 pst. Agriculture is the sector most affected by climate change. The attention to food is now much more international than it was a few years ago, and we believe it is very important that all countries produce their own food as much as possible. The size of the population has recently decided to increase food production in Norway by 20 pst. This is a reflection of the major challenges we face in Norway too. Report. St. 9 for 2011–2012, Welcome to the table, reflect exactly this balance between developments internationally and that we in Norway should also take responsibility for producing food for our own population. At least the government thinks it's very clear. The government wants to stimulate increased business exposure and research in African countries and to reduce food production losses. Multilateral cooperation is another important point. Cooperation with FAO shall be maintained and strengthened. Greater efforts will be made for genetic resources and more support for small-scale producers in developing countries in their sustainable development efforts. Norwegian support for cooperatives is to be continued and increased. Finally, agriculture has a special role in many places because women account for a very large proportion of production. Agriculture must therefore be given greater political weight and seen in a climate, distribution and gender perspective. Women in Africa stand up to 80 pst. the production of local food, but is strongly under-represented in farmers’ organisations and representative organisations. Let me also stress that I think we get a paradigm shift with this big message. There is an overall committee and an aggregate pool that underlines the need to support the development of the capacity of local small farmers to produce their own food. It's all of a sudden in a slightly different way. It is a strong and important signal that this – regardless of government – must be an important form of work in the future; that development policy strengthens the ability to produce food around the world. Then it becomes a paradox to me that the Right Representative, Skovholt Gitmark, is now focusing on export opportunities. I can come back to that in a later article. Exports do not solve the challenges of small-scale production, it does not solve the poverty challenges, but it solves the problems for the US and EU export industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e277	Combating poverty and fairer distribution have always been central to Norwegian development cooperation. The principle of poverty orientation is an expression of this. We need to focus on the poorest countries, i.e. the low-income countries, and not the middle-income countries. Within the co-operation countries, the measures will raise poor populations, not just help the elite to increase economic growth. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the development minister Eidsvoll Holmås, in the new bigmouth message again, promises the prospect of poverty and distribution. It is good that he criticizes the belief in the trickle down theory after his predecessors repeatedly did the opposite and asked questions about the orientation of poverty. In this way, the message of the new government's development policy brings closer to the line of the Christian People's Party. ‘Share to create’ is a fine point formulation. Very much in the message there is a broad consensus about. The strength of the notification is the discussion of how development cooperation can strengthen public revenues and distribution systems in the cooperating countries. It is weaker in measures for increased value creation and at the direction of how value creation and distribution can be promoted through trade and investment. If poor developing countries are to finance their public budgets themselves, the value creation must be increased and the country's revenue base strengthened. The authorities lose enormous amounts annually, including: due to: weaknesses in tax law, corruption and weak control of capital flows. Through the assistance, we address these problems. Norwegian programmes such as the Tax on Development and Oil for Development are two examples: the fight against corruption a third. Still others are support for local civil society, for independent media and for strengthening the rule of law. The Christian People's Party believes that the distribution perspective is important, but it must not be used to legitimise a gravity shift of Norwegian aid; away from the poor developing countries and across to resource-rich middle-income countries. To be quite specific, once Brazil has passed the United Kingdom and is the world's sixth largest economy, it is wrong to give Brazil priority over low-income countries. Brazil, by spending less than half a percent of gross domestic product on distribution programmes that Bolsa Familia has raised many out of deep poverty. Brazil has large resources itself, and such distribution reforms help. We must support this politically and professionally, but not by depriving aid to the poorest countries. The setting shows that there is agreement about a lot, but also some dissensions. In some cases, the Christian People's Party forms a majority with the government parties. This applies, inter alia, to: work on new global financial instruments — including foreign exchange tax — and on support for building up developing countries’ own capacity to improve social security networks for vulnerable groups. Here – as I said – we will have a stronger focus on low-income countries than the government parties. When it comes to allocating aid, we must give priority to the poor low-income countries over the rich middle-income countries which have large budget resources themselves. In other cases, it's this one's because the opposition is more offensive than the government. Let me mention two examples: firstly, the Minister of Development has previously been positive about investing more of the oil fund in developing countries, but here the message is inconclusive. To remedy this, the Christian People’s Party, together with the rest of the opposition, is committed to establishing such an investment programme within the State pension fund abroad, SPU, with the objective of a total investment framework of up to 10 billion. kr. It can contribute to greater value creation, more jobs and better distribution. Finally, let me mention the work of introducing rules for country-by-country reporting that are important to ensure the transparency of government capital flows, and to prevent illegal capital flows and tax evasion. The opposition is in favour of more comprehensive and offensive country-by-country reporting rules than the government does. Development policy can become ever better, more targeted and more performance-oriented. The Christian People's Party will be a proponent of this. Finally, when the rapporteur mentioned something about a fix, something was wrong when he talked about where it says ‘this member’ instead of ‘this majority’. There's actually going to be another problem: it's going to be 10 billion. kr and not 20 br. So it's on page 9 of the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e303	Then the creation of the creation will proceed with the protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e306	The last correction is really a good entry to my first point. Development policy is an important theme in the Norwegian economy, because we are a major force in this field. We're a great sail with a typographical error here, if it says 10 billion. or 20 billion. It gives us great influence, but it also gives us a huge responsibility here in the Chamber as to how the power that Norway has as a force for aid policy is used. The left largely agrees with the main actions presented in the message and the ‘four lines’ outlined, but we have seen that developments over the last decades have led to much more of the world’s citizens living in middle-income countries rather than in low-income countries. This is because we have seen large economic growth in particular in those countries that have previously been low-income countries, because a market economy has been introduced. So here we see that putting in place a market economy, an economy that works, an economy that is more real and fairer, also leads to laying the foundation for democracy. So it's not that one of these things comes all alone; it's actually that a good and functioning market economy can also lay the foundation for a well-functioning democracy. Like the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, we do not fully agree with the attempt to call this message "an important distinction" in development policy. We probably rather look at the message so that it is based on a long tradition. Distribution, I believe, has always been central to Norwegian assistance – it has been the very basis for Norwegian assistance. So to the left's main starting point in development policy: I would first like to stress that we have also programmed that 1 pst. GNI shall provide assistance. But assistance alone is not enough. As we develop our development policy, we need to see much more fully between promoting business development and trade, supporting the rule of law and the principles of the rule of law, and looking at the international framework to get the market that works for the poor countries as well. Like the rest of the opposition, I miss a greater emphasis and analysis in the message of how trade policy and investment can help to lay the groundwork for distribution even within countries. Of course, all cakes should be distributed as best as possible, but it is only when cake reaches a certain size that distribution will contribute significantly to the fight against poverty. Many countries are so poor that if incomes were distributed in exactly the same way, all citizens would live near the poverty line, and there would hardly be anything left to drive the country and drive development. Therefore, economic growth is a prerequisite for poverty reduction. We also agree that it is important to focus much more on coherence in development policy. There must be a link between state investment, customs protection, industrial interests, climate cooperation – all those parts of Norwegian policy that also affect how we distribute funds abroad. We might have wanted a lot more of something that is hardly affected in the message, namely to look at how we can use our oil wealth in a better way, with a better distribution effect. The left wants capital from the oil fund to be allocated to investment in two areas in particular. One part shall have a mandate to develop and invest in infrastructure and companies that can contribute to sustainable growth in developing countries where there are good returns and acceptable risks to Norwegian money. The second part shall have a climate mandate and invest in renewable energy and other climate-friendly activities both in rich and poor countries. I am pleased that the opposition seems to be in line with us on the question that parts of our oil wealth need to be used much more actively in poor countries. It is both solidarity and, most likely, very sensible investment. It is also important for the Left that we support civil society. Education and gender equality, and especially women's commitment, are important in order to achieve our objectives in the area of aid policy. I would also like to stress that it is important that we support civil society through the child and youth sectors, where child and youth movements are the very basis for leading to greater participation in children and youth.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e330	Joseph Stiglitz, Nobel Prize winner in economics, has said: “Before we thought that if we only created wealth in a society, it would automatically age down, benefit everyone and end poverty.” Now we know that's the complete nonsense. St.meld. No 25 for 2012–2013, Parts to create – Democracy, fair distribution and growth in development policy, is a settlement with the illusion that only we get economic growth, and poverty itself disappears. Solidarity and fair distribution is a choice of values that is morally correct, but it is also profitable: good distribution policies themselves contribute to growth – hence the title ‘Share to create’. In addition, the bigotry message is a settlement with the myth that democracy is not so important that the most important thing is that economic development also takes place for the poorest and for the whole people. I disagree with this. You can probably find examples through history that you've had one popular dictator, who's been busy with growth and the whole people's woe and well, but you've never found three in a row, and you've never had a positive development over time if you haven't also had the development of human rights and democracy. Another myth is that all the world's poorest people live in the world's poorest country. This is wrong. Over 70 pst. of the poorest live in middle-income countries. The global trend is that inequality within countries is increasing. In many developing countries — not least in Africa, where many have been involved — there is a good economic outcome. Many countries have high economic growth, but the bad news is that differences are increasing — not slightly, but strongly. An accelerating inequality undermines growth in the longer term, and the fight against poverty is lost. The United Nations report on the development of the world’s countries highlights this fact – how increasing inequalities in many countries can overcome and threaten the good and positive results achieved, both in education and in better health for the population, precisely because inequality is a evil, a poison in society. We know this from Norway: society with small differences is good societies. It is fair distribution that has brought Norway to the top of the UN Human Development Index. We are among the countries of the world with the least inequality, and the Nordic model to which we swear combines economic growth with equal distribution, the right to welfare schemes, cooperation between the social partners and high female participation. It is important for me to stress that the differences in Norway have decreased since the red-green government took over, precisely because we have had this as an independent political goal – as opposed to the right. The Nordic model has been developed through political struggles and compromises. It cannot be copied, and we shall be careful to ‘mission’, but it is an inspirational source internationally, and it is a foreign and developmental resource for us. As I always say when I'm traveling in other countries: «There are two things you can learn from Norway: High wages and high tariffs» – «high wages» because it strengthens productivity and provides good distribution, «high tariffs» because it finances basic well-being and contributes to redistribution. In the discussion on capital flows, tax havens and transparency, the report concentrates on the role of elites in poor countries and on the role of rich countries. It argues for a coherent development policy. It relates to different actors and not to a monotonous mass of poor countries. It places Norway as part of an international coalition that will change the system towards a more equitable world, instead of just being an aid provider that will spend the money as efficiently as possible. The response to the message has been positive. It has been characterised as a paradigm shift in development policy here in Norway, because we distinguish it from just helping the poor to be elderly with the poor and doing something about the reasons why poverty is created. We attack the causes, we look at the distribution of power in society and we try to say that development policy has to do something about that distribution of power. In this way, there is a clear rotation and a clear shift. The message receives increasing international attention. Civil society in other countries presents it as an example of a follow-up to the authorities of other countries. We can't view this as anything but a positive feedback. The first sentence of the Committee's unanimous comment on the suspension also suggests that there is a broad consensus on fair distribution across policy lines. It says that the Committee: ‘will point to small differences as an important prerequisite for a good and fair society’. I don't know if this is the first time that the Progress Party is involved in such a statement – but it's positive anyway. Differences are increasing, but not everywhere. Latin America is the continent of greatest inequality, but at the same time it is the only continent that has reduced inequalities in the last ten years. The main explanation for this is that reduced differences and redistribution have become a general policy objective. This has resulted in sustainable growth and poverty reduction. The results have led to popular support and many governments have been re-elected. That is why I think it is a sign that too many parties are concerned with old-fashioned development policy – or old-fashioned aid policy – when it is said that aid and support will be turned away from some middle-income countries. For it is precisely in the middle-income countries, where economic developments have taken place, that there is both financial resources to pursue an active policy of redistribution – if there is political will. The political will is to be a supporter. A crucial measure to achieve this is the direct transfer of funds programmes to weak groups. The most famous is Bolsa Familia in Brazil. The programme transfers money directly to mothers, subject to pregnancy and maternity checks, and children participating in vaccination programmes and attending school. Research shows that direct transfers of funds have a positive impact on nutrition, schooling and the use of healthcare. It is also an effective redistribution action from rich to poor, and is now being copied in India and a number of countries in Africa. That is why I am surprised that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Committee's vote do not want to refer to the positive experience of such schemes. Nor do they express the support to the World Bank Fund established to build up developing countries’ own capacity in this area, nor do they take note of the majority's comments that Norway should contribute to south-south cooperation for the exchange of experiences with distribution and welfare policies. The Right and Advance Party are also reserved for work on fair distribution in the United Nations, the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, and they do not agree that it is positive that the objective of fair distribution and inclusive growth is more important in the institutions. Nor do they agree with the comments of the majority on increased support for civil society organisations dealing with such issues. The establishment of a group of friends between countries for fair distribution internationally is also not included. In my view, such a policy as the Right and the Advance Party put up – or leave aside – will weaken and make the work of Norway less multilaterally recognizable. Such a policy means scouring away an important foreign and development policy resource. If policy and political ideas are to be implemented internationally, it is not just useful to use the money that is Norwegian. You have to get the big, heavy players to run the same policy. It will not be the Right and Advance Party. Therefore, when the Right Party and the Advance Party do not agree with the majority's remarks that economic growth alone does not eradicate poverty, I ask the question: How deeply does the commitment to fair distribution, both in Norway and internationally? Experience has shown that achieving results in this area requires a fair distribution of priority. This is my most important matter as Minister of Development. For the Right and the Advance Party, it may seem to come down further on the list. It doesn't surprise me in and of itself. Finally, I would like to say one thing about illegal capital flow. There I notice that there is broad support for what the government is doing and what the message adds up to. It is that ten times more money goes illegally out of developing countries in relation to what comes into the form of assistance. This comes from corruption, tax evasion and other crime, and tax havens are part of enabling this. They make the large, illegal cash flows possible. It is therefore gratifying that the measure for increased transparency has a unanimous welcome in its suspension, including the Norwegian initiative for an Transparency Commission and transparency guarantee. I can also say to those who have mentioned it, that I support the proposal for extended country-by-country reporting for multinational companies, which is described in the report of the Working Party set up by the Ministry of Finance. A new law in line with that proposal will mean that Norway will have the best law in the world against corruption and capital flow. Finally, I want to tell you a story that, in my opinion, just underlines the importance of distribution policy, by giving kids the opportunity to participate in school. In Brazil, I met Marcia Christina. She was the mother of three children and lived in the favela in Rio de Janeiro. She lived in a small, awkward house, but she was proud and satisfied. She had got Bolsa Familia and got money for electricity and gas, and I asked her what was next she expected of the politicians. Then she said, "I'm happy, because I know that my children have the opportunity to take the education that I never had the opportunity to take because I had to work instead." That's fair distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e397	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e400	There are a lot of things in the Minister of Development's posts that I would like to comment on, but until that doesn't take time. But I would like to encourage the Minister of Development to perhaps read the aid programme of the Progress Party, and he will see that we actually have a good policy in that area. It is such that the starting point here is ‘Share to Create’ — that is the title of the message. But it's a reality that if you're going to have something to share, you have to create it first. In the past, the Minister for Development has called for more investment by the State pension fund abroad in the world’s poorest countries. But in this message we find nothing about that very theme. Then the question to the Minister for Development is: why has it not been looked at more, and how does he relate to the comment that the opposition has put in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e407	I want to say three things. The first is that I fully agree that an increasing proportion of the State pension fund abroad should be invested in developing countries, because investment itself contributes positively to development. That's why it's important. That's why the government has about tripled the annual transfers we have to Norfund, which means that they have about 10 billion in total. kr in capital. To the comment from the opposition: if we were to do it first, create such a fund, I would say it's a little small, because if you look at the amount of money currently invested through the State pension fund abroad, it's significantly larger than the amount that the opposition spends. Finally, I would just like to comment that the representative in his post recorded Henrik Thune and Leiv Lunde's chronicle. That chronicle is just a description of how Norwegian development policy has changed to what the government is doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e416	I think it is a useful indication to the Council of State that the number of poor children in Norway has increased under this government, so that when it comes to Norwegian distribution, it has failed. In my post, I had two questions to the Council of State. One was attached to the SPU – it took up the representative Tom Staahle – the other was still standing. Why have investments and trade not been mentioned in the distribution notification and why has not a comprehensive analysis of related distribution effects been made? Is the Government satisfied that important economic issues such as SPU, investment and trade are excluded from a distribution perspective in the notification?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e423	We have underlined what is still an important fact, namely that 70 pst. of the differences between rich and poor people in the world are at the crossroads between rich and poor countries. However, the main focus of the Communication has been to look at how national policies – on which the representative himself was involved – should lead in each country in order to contribute to the eradication of poverty. Then we have focused on precisely national policies instead of international trade policies, such as: the representative draws up. It is in that sense that I believe it is so extremely important that it becomes too small to say that we should focus only on the poorest countries, rather than focus on the middle-income countries in particular. Latin America, where Peter Skovholt Gitmark says you don't want to spend money. That's exactly where you have opportunities for distribution policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e430	On the one hand, we agree that growth and distribution are equally important – or that both are at least important. That consensus, I think, is important to take care of. I have heard the Minister for Development in many contexts lifting up that we need more investment in the poorest countries. That is why I will not leave the answer he gives to the representative Staahle, because he does not really answer the important question. So now we've had a majority government for eight years, and then you point out that if you were to do something, you would have to do a lot more. Why can't at least support the motion in the form of a note that's in the attitude of the opposition, in 20 billion? Do you really want to delete this item? It is clear that the objective is to invest in sustainable businesses in the poorest countries. It does not exclude that SBU also invests as they do today. But this is a earmarking of funds to be added to existing aid. So I expect a better answer. Why does the Minister for Development think it is so important, and why does he not do anything about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e437	Now the representative Ropstad knows that it is the Minister of Finance who corresponds to the Stortinget on how the State pension fund is managed abroad. I concentrate on highlighting two things. One is that during the years we have had a majority, the use of money abroad through the State pension fund for investments in middle-income countries and poor countries has increased significantly — much, much more than what is presented in a separate proposal on money here. The second is that we have our own fund that invests in developing countries, and that's Norfund. Over the years that have gone by, we have helped to invest more. We've approximately tripled this compared to what the previous government did in the annual provisions. Then I would like to stress one more thing: the prerequisite for pursuing an offensive development policy is that we have enough money on the development budgets. Ropstad knows that we are good allies, while Ropstad's allies before the elections this year are the ones who will cut the aid budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e448	The Minister of Aid keeps talking about the responsibility of the Minister of Finance to respond to our oil investments. Now we see that there is a lot of secrecy built around where you want to invest, which left is very critical of. What I don't understand is that the government doesn't realize that they have as many instruments – they don't want to use them at the same time. This is a huge force, and it's not stupid investment. It's pretty smart investment. These are emerging economies, and we see that democracy, distribution and poverty reduction are so much linked to a well-functioning market economy and growth. Then I do not understand why the Council of State does not have its own opinion on such an important instrument in his own area of responsibility. Why can't the Council just say what he thinks about using these instruments in aid policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e455	I said in my first answer that I believe that an increasing proportion of the State pension fund abroad should be invested in developing countries, and I think that should be the policy in the years to come. At the same time, I think it is extremely important that investments made are good investments. Now I just came from Bangladesh, I was there last week. There we see a typical example of textile companies that at one end of the scale are tip top, and at the other end of the scale have safety challenges and working environments that are so bad that over a thousand people died. I was there and met some of the survivors. It also shows the importance of working for the distribution policy and organisation of workers, such as women and men. Right here in Stortinget has been a strong opponent of, and we've supported those organizations that do just that. Now we are praised because we use the ILO, the International Labour Organization, just to be there and get those workers a vote, so that investment in developing countries becomes good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e464	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e468	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark started by stating that what we are talking about today is primarily a distribution policy problem and not a development policy problem. At the same time, the representative followed up by saying that trade is the answer. It was interesting -- it's maybe dragging it a little bit, but it was at least a revelation for the whole of the Greatness of which liberalistic basic vision parts of the Right parts with the Advance Party. The representative of Gitmark continued to describe land on the leftmost wing with shell words, but only when it concerns the countries of Latin America. At the same time, we see in the statement that the Right raises China as the best example of countries where many have gradually come out of poverty. It would be interesting to get the right definition of what they really think is the left-hand side. The Norwegian model with small differences between people and strong collective rights is worth becoming an export article. Trust and cohesion are important values in the Norwegian social model, and Norway, compared with other countries, is characterised by both high trust and strong cohesion. The OECD also demonstrates that in countries with small economic differences there is greater confidence and greater human cohesion. So Norway has a very good starting point for putting fair international distribution on the map. That there is a great need for it is certain. The background has been in here, so I'm not going to repeat the numbers. But one thing is certain, and that is that there is no conflict between growth and distribution. On the contrary, it's the exact opposite. When addressing these problems, we need to include disabled people as a target group. At present, nine out of ten disabled people in poor countries lack access to schooling and education. Wars and landmines and diseases such as measles, polio and other diseases continue to create new disabilities. The UN statistics show that 70 pst of the world's disabled live. in developing countries, and 82 pst. lives below the poverty line. Many also do not get a job and remain in poverty. The Communication warns that work on the rights of people with disabilities will in particular be given priority in relevant areas such as education, humanitarian aid and health and women's action. This is very good. At the same time, it may be relevant to include disabled people as a target group in other sectors. Prioritying some sectors cannot exclude other sectors. I am very pleased that the government is raising disabled people as an important target group. Both through this message and through the interpellation debate we had some time ago, the place of the disabled is lifted. It must be compulsory. Ratification of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is an important opportunity to bring people with disabilities forward internationally and to give them priority in our international work. Recently, together with the Minister for Children and Gender Equality, the Council of State provided a guide on how to include disabled people in international work. That's very good. We're not going to force our community model on others. But we're going to be inspired, guided and share experiences. Often, experts can actually contribute as much as money when it comes to building a fair society. Knowledge of resource management to the benefit of the community, knowledge of a progressive tax system with a high distribution effect, knowledge of social organisations and rules of play and the importance of both workers and employers organising and acting responsibly, knowledge of how health and education can be offered to all, funded by the tax bill – summarised briefly: What we are talking about in the direction of development policy, we have a long and broad experience with this at home; building a well-being society on stone. Then I want to end by challenging the Right Party and the Advance Party. I would like to quote the majority comment that appears at the beginning of the vote: ‘The majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progressive Party and the Right, would point out that this means that economic growth alone does not eradicate poverty. Active distribution policies, globally and not least among different communities in each country, are needed to combat poverty and create good development globally. The majority note that strong economic growth in several countries has led to dramatic increases in economic disparities. Therefore, it could have been nice to ask the Right and the Advance Party finally: what is wrong with this description? Is it that economic growth alone does not eradicate poverty, or is it the active distribution policy with which they have a problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e499	The day after the anniversary of the voting rights, in a debate on aid policy based on democracy, fair distribution and economic growth, it may fit with a small story of practical women's liberation in Tanzania. A few years ago, Tanzania carried out a significant administrative reform with Norwegian help. As part of an institutional cooperation between the road authorities in Tanzania and Norway, a cooperation that has subsequently been phased out, the financing of the road sector has been restructured. The road administration was separated and released from a transport department — which was probably not exactly a free area. One element of this reform was that the maintenance of the country’s roads should be divided into small contracts reserved for the local population according to the tendering principle. The interest was high in rural areas, where jobs barely grow on trees – though jobs may well do that around there. When opening tenders, it turned out that many women were awarded their offers, to a certain dissatisfaction, I have to say, from the men who felt lost, and who thought that the jobs – in the pact with old traditions – should be reserved for themselves. When I later asked them how these women were doing, I was told that they were doing their work in the very best way – often more conscientiously than male colleagues. But there was one aspect the road authorities had not taken into account when awarding these maintenance contracts, namely that it was the first time these women had had paid for work. They were no longer economically dependent on their men — rather on the contrary. It was supposed to have consequences for the men and for the family life of the villages. The moral thing is that work and income are liberating, that work is the key to more equality, and that work can change fortified social structures, as we experienced in this country in the 1970s, when women seriously left the kitchen bench and went out to work. This is also true in developing countries. Therefore, work must be a key priority in Norwegian aid policy. Now that growth is growing in several African countries, it will usually also lead to more jobs. But it has not been said that growth benefits the population. All too often, we see that wealth accumulates in few hands and in rich bank accounts in tax havens. Therefore, the fight for fair distribution and against corruption must be another main priority. Work and income are the way out of poverty. The government points to the fact that fixed income is the most important factor affecting people's living conditions. Therefore, it is depressing to record that too many — and an increasing number of young people — are not going to work. We see that 60 pst. by the workers of the world now serve for the rest of their lives by what is called informal activity — far beyond an organized working life. Norway is one of the most important contributors to the World Labour Organisation. The work of decent working life with social rights, the right to organise and the right to enter into collective agreements is miserable in many countries. The more important it is that we continue to support the work of the ILO from the Norwegian side, in close cooperation with the social partners. Tripartite cooperation between the social partners and the authorities has been crucial for the development of Norwegian society, for Norwegian distribution policy and for our common well-being. The Norwegian model is not a bad export article in this way. But there are also other aspects of the initial story that require some attention. One is that, for good reasons, we should focus on labour-intensive production in our aid cooperation. The second is that a well-functioning infrastructure is a prerequisite for economic growth. A growing transport sector is being identified as the main cause of economic growth in several African countries. At the same time, heavy road traffic is becoming a serious health problem, such as AIDS and malaria. Traffic accidents are, in fact, one of the most common causes of death in many countries in the poor world.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e518	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e521	Human dignity is the basis for the great commitment of the Christian People's Party to development policy. The fact that we – all humans – have fundamental rights, the bottoms of human dignity and the unique value of man. That means we've got human rights that we have a goal that everyone will achieve. Human rights must be respected for all – all the different human rights. This is the starting point for the Christian People's Party's involvement in development policy and development policy in a broad sense. The representative Svendsen gave a good account of the Christian People's Party's main lines and comments in connection with the message. He pointed to poverty orientation, that we want to target aid to the poorest countries. He also pointed out that we want to turn the assistance back into what was the main goal, among other things. education. In addition, the Christian People's Party is engaged in more trade. We want to lift the poorest countries. Then help is one key, trade another. As many people have been involved, we are stunned that the government has not chosen to go further into trade – analysed it and reviewed it more to look at ways we can help raise trade, raise the opportunities for the poorest countries to make more money. The last point is investment. When discussing this message, it is incredibly surprising that no more was chosen in order to turn money away from the State pension fund abroad. I believe that it must be the biggest failure of this government – or: The biggest failure is that it did not happen before, because here are enormous opportunities for Norway. We have one of the world's largest investment funds. The way in which the money is spent is absolutely crucial. That's why the Christian People's Party has in its program that we want at least 20 billion. kr in a separate investment programme, and in the long term we want 1 pst. by the pension fund – targeting the poorest countries. In connection with this message, we have been given the opposition – and we have done so far before – on a separate investment programme of 10 billion. kr. We point out that that investment programme should be in addition to the 1 pst target. of GNI for assistance. We do this not only to lift people out of poverty and to help create jobs so that they can work out of poverty, but we can also point out that it is a self-interest for Norway to invest in the poorest countries. As most people know, Norfund has had huge returns – 10 pst. on average over the last 10 years — while SPU has only had about 3 pst. It shows that this is not a loss project – it can both make money and help create jobs in the poorest countries. Then I also have to comment on the amount. The Minister for Development was concerned that the Christian People's Party wants to cooperate with parties which unfortunately choose to cut their budgets. Then I will refer to Bondevik II. There, through three budgets with the Progress Party and one with the Labour Party, we were able to increase aid every year, so we almost reached 1 pst. In addition, when we discuss politics, money is important, but the use of money is also important. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e536	Yesterday, on the anniversary of the voting rights, what had developed in Norway was discussed throughout the country. There were three things: it was work, distribution policy and equality. It is a red thread through this communication – and should be a red thread through everything we do, not only in development policy but also in the other policy. The government has committed itself to the ‘decent work’ strategy that came in 2008, which mentions all the policies that have been pursued by many. It's not like that, unfortunately, that trade in itself creates distribution. It can be based on slave trade – on slave labor, forced labor – with huge gains for people who have not used a calorie of their own labour but who hoard the burdens of others. It's the story that's going on in many places today. The situation in Bangladesh shows that it is. So it's not free trade that's necessary, it's fair trade based on a working life that ensures that power and money are distributed in society. You'll also get development. It must mean that our emphasis on the right to organise, that it is good to enter into collective agreements, is important. It is this that has civilised Norway and distributed money and power more fairly here than in almost any other country. It is a healthy national policy, as the representative of Skovholt Gitmark mentioned. The distribution of power, democracy and transparency are important, but fair distribution is necessary to ensure that economic growth is also good, sustainable and stable. To the Right's criticism of Norwegian politics and SV's efforts: I think perhaps the representative Gitmark should go back and look at his own budget, where the Right, in the kingdom of Norway, chooses to take over 1 billion. kr from the poorest families of children. They have 2.5 times the risk of poverty, and it is estimated that 17 000 Norwegian children become poor overnight. So that's the criticism I think we should ignore. So for equality: equality is 100 pst. effective and 100 pst. profitable. It's the equality in Norway that has made us have good economic growth. There's nothing left over, nothing next to it -- we can forget the effect of the oil. That strategy of government must be important. That's why some of what happened yesterday is also important. We then again establish new links with women in other countries to strengthen formal rights and to strengthen the influence of women. Women are concerned with non-marital matters. They're concerned with good distribution, their kids and the future. Then there will be good development for countries as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e549	Then I will follow up where the representative Karin Andersen left off. Some lines have been drawn against SV in the context of differences in Norway. The entire Committee agrees that the Gini coefficient is a good way to measure differences internally in a country. In the international context, Norway has been quite unique in recent years, as in a financial crisis, differences have decreased in Norway, while they have increased in the vast majority of countries around us. The reason for this is that we have pursued a distribution and tax policy – of which the opposition is opposed – that has been effective in reducing the differences. I would like to thank you for a good debate. There's a lot of things we should have had more time to discuss. One of them is the good and constructive contributions of the Right Party, but also the silence about the big cuts they want to make in the aid budget. It's likely to say a lot nice about a better way to spend the money or which areas we should prioritize more, but the fact remains that the Progress Party will cut 7 billion. kr in aid. It's uncertain how much the Right will cut, other than that they have said that they will go away from the 1 pst. goal, which is very important for the red-green. We should have had more time to discuss fair natural resource management, i.e. the importance of national ownership of natural resources, and the renegotiation of unfair mining agreements, for example. for which Norway is to participate and support. We should have had more time to talk about the fight against tax havens, these world-renowned bloodguilts that facilitate the theft of people, and that facilitate illegal arms trafficking and tax fraud. We should have had more time to discuss developments internationally, where reactionary countries have come together in a kind of patriarchal axis and joined forces to weaken many of the progress we have made for women's rights throughout the world over the last decades. Norway has a very important role to play there. We are e.g. not a member of the EU, and that means that we do not compromise with countries like Malta and Poland until we express our opinion on the right to self-determined abortion and women's reproductive and sexual rights. We should have had time to discuss more fully the importance of civil society. All the parties in this room agree that civil society is important, and we fight to say great things about organisational life and civil society, but the fact remains that the opposition will cut the information support. The right will even completely remove it. The message we have discussed today is a product of the influence civil society exercises on Norwegian politics. Civil society is not just volunteering and an addition to political Norway. It is also an important corrective and important supplier of competences and premises for Norwegian policy, and it is a side of Norwegian development policy that will disappear if the Right implements its policy. I can't reach anymore, but I think it's been a very exciting debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e571	Right-wing criticism of the ILO is primarily based on the lack of efficiency of the organisation. We want to make greater use of other channels to support workers and contribute to good conditions for workers. To add it, we want to make use of evaluations of all UN organisations to select those who deliver the best at all times, in order to achieve our main objectives in development policy in the most effective way possible. I must say that I am pleased with the positive mention of tenders by the representative of Gullvåg – I fully agree with that. I believe that the post we heard from the representative Gustavsen was rarely unexplained. I therefore need to make a few perfectly clear clarifications. The first is what the Right said, in my post and in my remarks: The majority of the world's poor are in middle-income countries – we do not disagree with that. This is primarily a distribution challenge, not a development problem – that is what I understand the representative Gustavsen disagrees with or wants to address. The right solution to this is democratisation, equal rights to education and strengthened civil society, among others. In addition, national distribution policies are included. Does the representative Gustavsen really disagree with this? Then I ask for a clarification in that way. The representative also says that we're not involved in a statement about distribution. Yeah, that's right, that's because we're involved in other remarks that are much more precise. In my post I say the following: Distribution is important, but alone it does not generate growth. Economic growth is increasing with good distribution policies, increased trade, equality, the fight against corruption, respect for the environment, democracy and the realization of human rights. That's why the Right is not just part of the distribution track, because we see things together – exactly the same as our development policy policy. We are pursuing a coherent policy that is capable of building bridges between foreign policy, trade policy, investment, health, education, etc. We don't pick individual elements and have a policy for them alone. This is the main problem not only with the communication, but with government policy as such: there will be too much aid policy and too little development policy. In the end: I understand that SV believes it is painful that Right points out that there are more poor children in Norway with them in government. Trade alone does not create distribution – I fully agree with that. Trade is creating economic growth, which, in turn, is laying the foundation for jobs. There's a unique opportunity to do something about distribution, but it's not automatic in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e584	Then I can complete my reasoning that the size of the aid budget is actually important. The Christian People's Party has been one of the main parties to fight up the aid rate. What I pointed to in my post was that when we did it last, when we were in government with the Right and the Left, we were able to lift the aid every year – and significantly. At the same time, we did so by concluding budgetary agreements with the Progress Party for three out of four years. I do not need to defend the Advance Party and the Right Cut, because I believe that they should not do so, but at the same time I will show that every time we have been in government, we have managed to raise the aid budgets, and we will do that again. I want to challenge the Right and the Advance Party. We're going to discuss the National Transport Plan on Tuesday, and I'm pretty sure those parties are going to discuss the theme of building smarter and spending the money more efficiently, and spending more money – not least the Progress Party. This means that when Norway distributes money, it is crucial, as many have been involved, that we choose to spend more money to create development in the poorest countries. I was concerned that we believe that both distribution and growth are important. In 3 minute posts, it's hard to get into a lot, but the distribution is crucial. We underline that in the Christian People's Party in our remarks. As the representative of Gitmark was also involved, we in particular want to build on democratisation, building on civil society, education, etc. in middle-income countries. We are committed to combating corruption and tax evasion, and we want, for example. through the ‘Tax for Development’, the poorest countries will be given more resources themselves. I'm in the Energy and Environment Committee, and I can point out that one of the most important things we've been able to do, which has built up Norway – in addition to work, which both Karin Andersen and Steinar Gullvåg underline in their contributions – is that we tax the natural resources in a way that makes it fall into the community. It must also be a target for the poorest countries. When we have 78 pst. taxes on oil means that the community benefits from the resources. The poorest countries are not doing the same. It's important to help them, so that it actually belongs to the community. Finally, there are several people who have been involved in the chronicle of Lunde and Thune, who want to remove the Minister of Development. For the Christian People's Party, it is completely wrong to go in. Chronicle draws a too narrow or too simple picture, because – I think it was the Secretary-General of the Church's Emergency Aid who pointed it out – one of the main objectives of the Foreign Minister and foreign policy is to promote Norway's own interests. It is not always easy to think that getting the poorest out of poverty is in Norway's own interest. I think it should be, but it's not like that. Then we need our own minister, who also fights for the poorest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e597	The representative, Staahle, from the Progress Party, used his contribution to read out the chronicles of Thune and Lunde and concluded that it was the answer to how Norwegian development policy should be. The chroniclers are probably quite pleased that they have been so much in the focus of this debate. The representative Staahle claimed that we in the government parties are very tall and dark and have not taken on many of the challenges that are being addressed in the chronicle. Point 1: As far as I have registered, both the representative Staahle and I are dark. I'm 1.60. Point 2: I used my post to refer to the same chronicle, because I think it promises an important debate and has many interesting analyses. However, I do not agree with the title, to withdraw Norwegian assistance. It's not surprising that the Progress Party thinks it's an intrusive entrance to a chronicle, because the Advance Party wants to cut 7 billion. kr in the aid budget. I'm not surprised at that entrance. To capture part of what he quoted from the chronicle: ‘Growth and development are not created by transfers from Western countries but by investments that create jobs, as well as by sound government governance, income balancing, tax systems, management of natural resources and help to resolve conflicts.’ What is Norwegian development policy doing? Workplaces – we have spent hours in this room discussing just how important job creation is. Good government governance – I don’t know how many big business messages we’ve had for treatment that just takes into account the importance of good government governance of the country. Income balancing, tax systems – this is about the big picture we are discussing today. It's an important part of our development policy. Natural resource management — it has been one of the main focus of this government. We believe that Norway has a lot to contribute, both how to manage natural resources and how to distribute their revenues. Help to resolve conflicts — Norway has been an important part of its foreign policy to help mitigate conflicts and contribute positively. At the end of the day, the representative of Skovholt Gitmark, who has criticised the government quite strongly during his 18 minutes here today. He said that I was wrong when I said that the Right would not be involved in the comment on privatisation and the unfortunate effects of international companies by saying that many countries will not be able to recover their natural resources. The right would not be on that note. The main entrance to the right was about corruption – that's what was the main entrance. They had several weaker formulations on privatisation and the role of international companies in taking natural resources from poor countries. I think this has been an interesting debate. I also think we've got very good ideological dividing lines. So I just have to say, I'm looking forward to the election campaign and hope this becomes a theme there as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e615	I agree with every word from the previous speaker, Eva Kristin Hansen. This should be a theme because there are important dividing lines in Norwegian policy. It's important because we're part of the world, and because this is just about human rights and our responsibility as a nation, how we manage that wealth and our influence in the world for the benefit of human rights and for development in all countries. I noticed that the representative of Skovholt Gitmark said they would choose away the ILO. The ILO is the UN tripartite cooperation organisation on which the Nordic model and the Norwegian model are based. In fact, at its national meeting, the Progress Party has relinquished it and believes it is bad. I actually thought that everyone else was busy building up under a serious tripartite collaboration. This does not preclude cooperating with others on sensible things, so that you get an organized, well-developed and decent working life. Saying that you should choose away the ILO, which is the most important international work organisation, I believe is irresponsible. The representative, Ropstad, says that the amount of assistance is important. It is important because it is about fair distribution of resources also between countries. It's a piece of what we're doing, which also makes countries willing to listen to us in other issues that may be important to them. Not that we're necessarily going to export the way we've done it, but some of the development strategies that are important, and not least what he was about, like oil and gas resources and other important natural resources and the distribution of dividends from them. Finally, on poverty in Norway. I would be careful and mouse quiet if I had been right in this matter. It is – it is a reality – that in two budgets, both the Right and the Advance Party have now removed over 1 billion. kr on an annual basis from the poorest families of children, an income they have while qualifying for work. It's working. An estimated 17 000 Norwegian children have a lone parent who does not have a job and who will lose income overnight. There won't be fewer poor children of it, there will be many more poor children of it. These revenues – I have explained this in a reply in Stortinget with the representative Sanner – this money was needed because the wealth tax for the wealthiest was to be lowered. That's the core of Right Policy. That's what we hear here, too. They believe that commerce and the richest people's right to run will help out here. We know that it doesn't help. There'll be more poor children of it. There will be more poor children taking the income of lone parents and giving it to the richest in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e627	The next speaker is Snorre Serigstad Valen. He is the rapporteur on the matter and thus still has 3 minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e630	I must thank the President and the Stortinge's Rules of Procedure for that. Peter Skovholt Gitmark said that the Right is not only concerned with distribution, but with a coherent and broad policy that includes combating corruption, equality, democracy, respect for human rights, investment, trade, etc. We can all agree on that. Nor is it the case that this forecast relates only to distribution. It's a broad and comprehensive message of big business. But I have to ask: how will this convergence be achieved by entering into development policy compromises with the Progress Party, by adopting more offensive demands on developing countries for the liberalisation of their own public sector and by cutting all money for development work outside Africa, including everything we do from human rights work in Latin America? If the objective is more development policy and less classical aid policy, it is almost incomprehensible that the Right will concentrate all efforts on Africa and not spend any money on projects in middle-income countries throughout the world. The vast majority of people who are poor live in middle-income countries. It's not just the poorest that have to be part of a larger distribution policy grip. There are many in this room who master the art of rhetoric. The representative of Skovholt Gitmark is to the most extent one of the rhetorical masters. But sometimes it's better just to say it simple. U.S. Vice President Joe Biden made headlines in the U.S. election campaign last year with his thunderous speech when he said, 'Show me the money!' Then the debate was over. You could say as much as you want to be for it and that, but where you put the money, you like to say something about what you really prioritize. What are you willing to spend the money on? The Right Party and the Progressive Party prioritise tax havens in Norway, and these are financed by spending less money on international solidarity. It's that simple. There's the money, that's the priority. It is true that a policy which cuts in support of the world's poor and gives more to the kingdom of Norway is a form of cohesion, both rhetorical and material, but that is not the consistency of which we, on the red-green side, are concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e641	The representative Gitmark is obviously surprised that I am in favour of tendering. In relation to what is daily Norwegian reality, he should not be surprised at it. But I am well aware that tenders and tendering procedures have their limitations, and it is not exactly how you see tenders, and how you call out tenders. This is particularly important to consider in the context of aid policy. Tenders and competitions in the social sector, for example: has an impact page which, in my view, is quite unacceptable, but in developing countries, competitive tendering – and in particular transparent tendering procedures – can actually be an important part of the anti-corruption work. What is the alternative to competitive tendering? Well, it's usually direct assignment. It is a tradition for many developing countries, with the result that assignments are awarded to those who are able to pay the best for it. I am amazed that the representative Gitmark does not value ILO's work for a decent working life, because it should be in our own interest. It is in the interest of all of us that the World Organisation is working to ensure that workers have their social rights, that they have the right to organise themselves and to conclude collective agreements worldwide. What is really worrying is that the Right does not see this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e648	We record from the Progress Party that the message says little about investment, it says little about education, and it says nothing about anti-corruption measures. So it's worth thinking about what the message is about, and the message is that we're going to make sure that developing countries move on here in the world. I also have to say that when we see Norway giving a large share of money to middle-income countries instead of the poorest of the poor, who just need concrete measures such as education and health to get up and down and to create their own future, it becomes strange. For the Progress Party, I record that we get criticism that we want to cut the aid budget, but our intention is that we are constantly concerned about what the money is actually spent on. Then it is not the proportion of dollars — the actual proportion of dollars — that is crucial, but what you spend the money on. Today, when Norway provides large resources to middle-income countries, we are very careful to point out that those countries that have actually committed themselves to becoming a middle-income country, which has gone from being a poor country to moving on up the ladder, have a national responsibility to lift up that part of the population that is still struggling in the respective country. There, I also believe that this message is extremely weak in pointing out how Norway can contribute to that. Finally, I just have to be allowed to say that I register the article with Karin Andersen and other representatives from SV about the situation of poor children in Norway. I remember Kristin Halvorsen saying that poverty among Norwegian children should be eradicated with a pen stroke. Eight years later, we see that the number of poor children in Norway is increasing and has constantly increased. I must say that it is probably the greatest example of the failure declaration for the SV's participation in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e659	I'm going to deal with the debate on the big message. I want to start by saying that it's easy to say that it doesn't matter how much money you spend, because internationally, in a world where the distribution between rich and poor countries is as large as it is, it's vital for the confidence of the richest countries in the world that we actually contribute to the redistribution from rich countries to poor countries. Therefore, Tom Staahle is mistaken when he says that this is not important. I agree, of course, that it is important to use the money correctly. We do that, and that's what we're saying about how we're going to do it. I would like to say the following: it is old-fashioned assistance if Norway is going to go into countries that really have enough money – even if they are poor – to finance their own education sector and their own health sector, instead of spending the money to enable them to collect the taxes and spend the money on exactly the same. I'll use Zambia as an example. In Zambia, Norway has contributed 26 million. kr to increase tax revenue from the mining sector. It is a large country, a typical country that has had high economic growth, but has almost all been from the mining sector, from the mineral extraction sector. What have we done? With our 26 million. We have been able to contribute – in addition to Zambia’s own contribution – to collect SEK 1.7 billion. kr annually in additional income. One, seven, bn. kr is the same as Zambia uses extra in its education sector. It is much more important that we help to support the kind of development both in poor countries and in middle-income countries so that countries can increase their own tax revenues and use money to strengthen the well-being of their own population. It's smart assistance, unlike not so smart assistance, which I perceive the Progress Party stands for, as well as they want less of it because they want to cut. Why am I in favour of distribution and not just poverty reduction? Why is poverty orientation wrong, and why is it right to have poverty reduction and fair distribution together? Yes, because in today's world we see that the poorest 20 pst. in the world has about 1 pst. of the income of the world. Let's see the 40 pst. Poorest in the world, they have about 3 pst. of the revenue. Focusing only on combating poverty instead of looking at the distribution side of this is going to be wrong, because then you don't make sure people get income and keep getting an increase in their income as long as they're helped out of poverty. That is why I also believe that the focus of many, highlighted in the debate, on focusing only on the poorest countries, will be wrong if we focus on how the poorest in the world feel. When 70 pst. of the world's poor live in middle-income countries, is where distribution policies are needed, and it takes a lot of time to describe the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e670	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e673	To the representative Serigstad Valen I would like to say: ‘I’ll show you the money!’ Of our cuts, more than half are linked to the forestry effort, because we want Norway's payments to be in line with the OECD's own DAC. That was supposed to be a minimum – also for SV. We cut bilaterally in Latin America because we believe that today's 110 countries we give money to are too many, and that we need to concentrate, also geographically. We have historical cooperation with the Christian People's Party and the Progress Party, to which we can point, where we actually increased aid budgets every year. Now when we cut, the real cuts are very small, and that's from the following: It takes time to change. We are going away from supporting countries that are going in the wrong direction towards human rights and democracy, and from supporting that kind of issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e682	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e696	I'm a little uncertain whether the civil defense is testing the sirens in fanfare that the previous case was finished, or that this matter begins. I'll be brief. The background to the case is that the Norfunds Act came into force in 1997, and then everyone understands that there is now a need for changes in the law and harmonisation with other laws. This is particularly true in the areas of ownership management, company management and employee participation, but also of establishing and owning subsidiaries and clarifying the distinction between investment in subsidiaries, joint ventures and ordinary portfolio companies. One change is that subsidiaries under Norfund are not now going to have a general access to raise loans in the market. A unanimous committee supports the proposal to include a ban in the company’s statutes on the admission of subsidiaries to take up loans. In its observations, the Committee stresses that it is assumed that the Riksaudition will, of course, have control over the management of the interests of the State — that it will also include subsidiaries and other establishments where Norfund has a significant holding. The Committee also welcomes the fact that the proposed amendment of the law ensures the right of participation of employees, both on the board of Norfund and in subsidiaries, through their elected members of the board of directors. This means that the employees of Norfund may require two members of the Board of Directors to be elected by and among their employees. It also means that the share law rules on representation of both sexes apply to Norfund. Of course, this is a desirable development, and it is in line with the legislation that exists for comparable enterprises. The Committee shall stand together in this matter. The aim of the law changes in the Nordfund Act is to bring together other companies owned by the state. It's now being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e711	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e725	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Tom Staahle, who is given the floor on behalf of the rapporteur-in-Office, Peter N. Myhre.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e736	This is a role I haven't had before, so you can carry over with me. The current treatment approach concerns the cancellation of debt for Burma. Norway granted a loan to Burma of around 179 million in the period 1976–80. kr, which is not a cop. The 179 million. kr has grown to three billion. kr. Burma has had a positive development in the last few years, and I think we all agree with the hope that that development will continue. We see that they still have some way to go, and it might be worth reflecting on whether it's the right time to do what we're doing now. However, the decision has been taken and it supports a unanimous committee. It is worth noting that the members of the Progress Party and the Right precisely believe that this kind of debt cancellation must be seen a little in connection with the design of democracy that takes place in these countries that we grant such debt cancellation, and that the focus has been on further democratic development and respect for human rights. A unanimous committee is in favour of eradicating the debt – and also includes guarantees for health measures in developing countries, which are a positive and good measure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e747	I think that Tom Staahle, who made contributions on behalf of the President-in-Office, managed well. I am delighted with all the progress that Burma has made – both democratically and with regard to human rights. There has been great progress, but Burma per day is not a democracy, but still a dictatorship. It's a country that's changing — away from one of the most brutal dictatorships we've ever had, and over to something else. But that way is still long. There will be several major milestones that will show whether the junta, which is now dressed, is really on the side of its own people, or – as they have so often done in the past – is on its own wallet page. I believe it is right to forgive debts, and that it is right that Norway should discharge all debts from the Norwegian shipping campaign. It's a shame that 179 million. kr has become SEK 3,1 billion. kr. However, the right does not believe that it is right to discharge the debt to Burma without making any demands. We should have done like Japan, and made some demands on some of the milestones that are coming – for example. deleting one third already now, a new third when the 2015 elections take place, if the country is free and independent, and the last third when they put in place a real free and independent new government in Burma. Coordinating actions with many other Burmese lenders would have been far more powerful from the Norwegian team than merely helping to clear the debt. We, Norway, the Storting fully agree with the principle that this is illegitimate help, that it should be deleted, but we must use all the measures we have against Burma to help support and push the country to move in the right direction: both democratically and in respect of human rights. This matter should have been used for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e758	When the Storting decides today to commit Burma’s over 30-year-old debt to Norway, it is the result of the country’s taking important steps towards democracy since 2011. Freedom of the press has been greatly improved. Several opposition officials were placed in Parliament at the additional elections of 49 mandates in 2012, but the country does not yet have a real elected parliament or a democratically elected government. Although political leadership today wears civil clothing, Burma is far from a real democracy. Norway has long been among the most critical of the military dictatorship in Burma. Arguing governments have actively used boycott measures and supported the opposition to promote the fight for democracy in the country. Due to the military dictatorship, Norway has for a long time been waiting to give up debt incurred during the Norwegian shipping campaign in the 1970s. What 30 years ago was a debt of 179 million. kr, with interest rate increased to over 3 billion. kr. The Christian People's Party believes that it will strengthen positive development and show that democratization pays off. The deletion of old debt currently proposed takes place following multilaterally coordinated negotiations at the Paris Club. So it's not a Norwegian solo game. At the same time, the regime must know that Norway and the world community have clear expectations that the 2015 parliamentary elections will be free and democratic and that the military will have to accept the outcome. We assume that this is clearly reported by the Norwegian side and that new measures will be assessed in the context of the further democratisation process. We must not give the impression that the status quo is enough to fully normalize. Now that Burma has opened up foreign investment and has freed its external relations, international societies must not put their economic and geopolitical interests ahead of the need to complete the process of democracy and human rights in the country. This perspective should have been even stronger in the government's presentation of the debt to Burma, or to Myanmar as it is called in official documents. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we expect the government to continue to pursue an active policy to promote democracy, human rights and peace in this hard-hit country. The people deserve more than some initial steps towards democracy. The proposal also includes a proposal to provide a guarantee authorisation for the purchase of life-saving medicines for women and children in developing countries. Of course, we support this on the part of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e784	I'm going to be short, because I see that there's a consensus about the facts, that we're cancelling the debt as it stands. It's a little demanding to deal with the Right and the Advance Party thinking that we should actually do this in a slightly different way, but still vote in favour, but it's good that we agree on the strategy. I see this as a follow-up to the large debt gap, which we had in connection with the shipping export strategy, where we and Stortinget said very clearly that when there is an international agreement on debt cancellation to Myanmar, we are also involved. That's what we've been following up from the government. In connection with the Paris Club's meeting on this on 25 January this year, when Myanmar and the Paris Club agreed to agree on a debt cancellation, we participated and were very clear that this was what we wanted to do, but we wanted to do it together with the others. Once we've chosen to add 100 pst. - and not 50 pst. as part of the others – I also believe that this is in line with Storting’s assumptions, because it was a matter of indebtedness as in the shipping campaign. There are extensive assumptions and demands behind the Paris Club's indebtedness negotiations with Myanmar. I want to highlight two things. Firstly, there is an agreement with the IMF on the management of macroeconomic conditions, etc. The second is to have a poverty strategy. Both are important to us. If you look at the evolution in Myanmar, it's positive, and it's all coming out. Myanmar is not a democracy today, but there has been considerable relief on the freedom of speech side. It's been one of the things that, among other things, I, who's been on the Burma Committee, have been busy with the time I spent on the Storting. There have been supplementary elections to Parliament, where the opposition has become even more so. But we still can't say that Myanmar is a democracy. So there's one thing that's important: when you see positive, democratic developments in countries, I think it's important that the international community is on the road and is involved in supporting them in such a process. Too often people who want a democratic development experience being sitting and waiting and saying, "Now we did the things you asked us to do, but where does that backing make us able to carry on this project?" I believe that this is not the case with Myanmar. Here's the international community on the road. We've had visits from our own authorities in Myanmar, and we've had delegations there to see how we can secure natural resource management and other things that are important to create a long-term development. Then there are human rights. In the case of human rights and conflicts — especially the one that has been up with the rowingyas — Norway is very clear. We have, at everyone's request, helped to make a positive contribution to the peace mediation and peace processes that have led to a positive outcome. We are clear about fundamental human rights in our dialogue with Myanmar. The size can be certain that we're following this up. We will follow developments, because it is absolutely vital for the further development in Myanmar that we now have a good process ahead of the elections to take place and that the elections are conducted in a good way. I think that being engaged, being present, being involved, has worked positively in the case of Myanmar, and we're hoping that it will continue. One last thing: getting settled in old debt is often crucial to being able to raise new loans. New loans for infrastructure, school and health investment are now in place for Myanmar. In the case of health guarantees, I am pleased with the support provided by Stortinget. I think it's part of pooling many drug demanders and prevention implants, as is the case in this context, is a very important and good tool to push the price down internationally. It's proven to work for AIDS medicine. It is also shown to be effective in relation to contraceptive implants. Thus we get more contraceptive implants and medicines again for the aid money we're making, and that's something we're all satisfied with, so thank you for the connection from Stortinget to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e801	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e804	Yes, Burma is at a crossroads, although we know that there is an authoritarian regime there today. Now you're going to move forward towards 2015 and the vote that's to come. But I have a question now for the Minister of Development. Now we're deleting the debt as part of a program. It's all right, we agree on that. But in the process now under way in Burma, where must the focus be on democratisation, and there must be a focus on human rights, what concrete political demands will the Minister of Development make to give new appropriations to Burma?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e811	The programmes that have been successful and have received positive feedback and evaluation reports are those that are concerned with natural resource management, which we also had in the previous debate on the Communication Share to create. There is typically an overall approach to good governance regimes and good governance structures associated with this – with transparency and transparency in the processes involved. It is very important to combat corruption and prevent corruption. Thirdly, it is about the ability of civil society to participate and influence the processes. It is about the possibility for parliaments and parliamentarians to participate in processes, and it is about the possibility for interested groups to participate in processes. So our development programs to -- yeah, there was time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e818	Is not the Council of State afraid that we are playing away all our opportunities and cards by a complete debt cancellation in a jafs – afraid that with this unconditional and undesired debt cancellation, we are taking away good cards from ourselves in order to be able to hold a pressure on this regime that, as many people have been in the past, can far from be called a democracy today? A week ago, we had another debate here that we are very quick to present support in the cultural sector. Norway, for example, is in place with cultural elements supported by the Norwegian state in North Korea. Isn't this free-handed political handling – a way to legalize forces that we're a little too fast in the lab giving an approval mark?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e825	If Ivar Kristiansen and Right really think that we are too let go, I would recommend voting against the debt that lies here. But you agree that this is the right thing to do. That's why I guess the Right has adhered to the basic principle, which was also there in connection with the shipping export debt, that these are liabilities that really shouldn't be found, these are liabilities that should be erased, but because. The situation in Myanmar must wait until the international community agrees. I don't think I would recommend anyone alone from the Norwegian side when it comes to the process of indebtedness. I think it should still be coordinated with other countries within the Paris Club, and that's what we're adding up to, and that's what the Right supports here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e833	When I read the proposition, I have to say that I am pleased with the contributions that have been made in the debate from the Christian People's Party and the Right to complement the overall picture of the situation in Myanmar. Where we are today, there will now be a struggle between different types of interests for our involvement in Myanmar. There will be economic self-interests, geopolitical interests and the interests of promoting human rights and democracy. Then we're asked what we choose if these are put to the test and if we get a setback in Myanmar, or we don't get the democratic elections in 2015 that we want. What means does the Council of State see that we have on the Norwegian side to show that we are dissatisfied with development, that there will be no human rights and democracy that we all hope for?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e840	I would say we have limited instruments, but we have the possibility of clear dialogue, and we have the opportunity to manage aid and development money where we think it is right, perhaps not to go in because we think it is too difficult. I think there are two things that are important to be told in the debate. One is, has there been a positive development in Myanmar? Yes, absolutely, there have been significant positive developments over the years that have been – I would say especially positive in terms of freedom of expression. Many have concluded peace agreements in many of the conflicts that have occurred. It's positive. Is there a risk of relapse? Yes, so absolutely – I think it is the continuous commitment of the Norwegian side and of the international community to insist on human rights and to say that part of the fundamental democratic principles prevails over our own financial interests, that we can play a positive role in supporting such a development.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e849	I felt the need for clarification, because the different ethnic minorities do not have peace agreements with the junta or the board. They have either truce agreements or agreements not to fight each other. That's a big difference. I believe that this proposition should have mentioned both the situation of the rowingya and the systematic repression, and not least the fact that there are acts of war still taking place in Burma. It's a picture that we have to include in the discussion when we discuss Burma and the progress that takes place. In some areas, Burma has come very far — very quickly — and it should be supported. I believe that it is absolutely right and positive to contribute to further progress, but in other areas they deserve strong criticism, and in particular the practice of the ethnic minorities and the acts of war that are still taking place. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e856	I fully agree with that, that's correct clarification. And I fully agree with the points that come from Peter Skovholt Gitmark. International press and international votes are important, and I believe Norway should contribute in time. We're going to coordinate with others to make sure that those signals are sent very clearly. I can see that we're doing it today. But the national discussion in Myanmar needs to develop, because there is no doubt that there are too few voices in Myanmar who speak the Rohingyaese case, there are too few who stand up and join in saying that fundamental human rights will apply to all populations in Myanmar. I also think it is important that we take on board, both with those who sit with power, and with the opposition – when we meet them in Myanmar – that there is a expectation that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e863	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e879	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. The President has understood that the Council of State is entering into the speaking time of the Workers' Party. Furthermore, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a replacement of lines limited to four lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e890	As the case rapporteur for the district and regional notification, I am pleased that an overall committee is in line with the aim of the notification to maintain the main features of the housing pattern. The Communication underlines that this is a prerequisite for exploiting the human and natural resources across the country, thereby ensuring maximum national value creation, ensuring equivalent living conditions and giving everyone real freedom to live where they want to. A Joint Committee agrees with the ambitions of the Communication to pursue offensive and regionally differentiated policies in order to achieve the regional and regional policy objectives. But now it's unclear to me what some of the parties put in it. This is surprising because the same parties believe that today’s use of instruments has failed without proposing new instruments. Of course, both the timing and the current debate will show that there are important dividing lines between the parties. One of the dividing lines is based on the willingness to use policy instruments to achieve the objective of even population development across the country. The most obvious is the difference between the government parties on one side and, in particular, the Progress Party on the other. For example, the Progress Party believes that: that it is the market to manage all the settlements in Norway. But how free is this choice if you do not have an active policy that facilitates the use of the whole country – to settle and value-creating throughout the country? In Norway, we have traditionally had an equal side when it comes to accessing public welfare goods. We've had the expansion of local hospitals and district colleges, and we've chosen to have a fine-skinned municipal structure with good local welfare services, equivalent services across the country. If we had let the market rule alone, we would hardly have any of this, and people's free choice to settle where they want, in many places would be just an illusion. Sometimes we can get the impression that there is a steady flow from the village to the big cities, and that centralization is unambiguous and inevitable. That image must be nuanced absolutely. Population trends have been very good in the vast majority of municipalities in recent years, but centralisation in the Oslo area is mainly due to the fact that foreigners choose to live here and that there is a larger number of children's coal in this area. In many municipalities, including in small labour markets, the challenge is to ensure adequate recruitment and provide adequate housing. Attractive communities are an important element of district policy. Local involvement is important and the government will continue to build up under this commitment, stimulate cooperation between regional and local actors, and not least continue to prioritise a good local economy and continue the regional policy arrangements of the income system. The Committee stresses that the closeness of decision-making to decision-making is a good basis for a living community and government. For the Center Party, this is fundamental. We will fight against the forces that want the coercion of municipalities and the conversion of the income system, as the Right Party and the Progress Party call for. Such interventions will create greater distances between people and elected people and greater differences between poor and rich municipalities. Business plays a central role in regional and regional development. In Norway, housing has been largely based on value creation based on natural resources. This applies to agriculture, fisheries, oil, tourism and mineral industries, etc. The government and government parties believe that policy in these areas is central to achieving the objectives of housing and value creation in district and regional policies. Agriculture policy has a particularly important role to play in many districts. Here, there are also clear dividing lines. The Progress Party will remove the district focus of business policy. They are being attacked by what has long been the cornerstone of agricultural policy and which has largely contributed to the maintenance and development of rural housing and business. Apart from the Right and Advance Party, all parties in the Committee support the county municipality as the central regional development actor. Regional development work is, in my view, the most important municipality in the country. This work must be done in close cooperation with both other public and private actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e911	In the course of almost eight years here on the Stortinget, and not least as a member of the Health and Welfare Committee and the Municipal and Management Committee, I have had the joy of traveling around in all the counties of the country and in a number of municipalities around. When I've been out traveling and meeting businesses, non-governmental organisations, municipal employees, etc., there are people who have great optimism and faith in the future, and who burn for the countryside, their municipality and the services the municipality develops in cooperation with the public. The red-green government is engaged in using all of Norway, from south to north and from west to east. It's about maintaining and developing today's housing patterns, with a focus on viable communities across the country. If such ambition is to succeed, an active district policy and regional policy must be pursued. We have to use the natural resources that exist, whether on the sea or on land. It is not least about the human resources, the local competence and the local commitment that exist everywhere. There are several assumptions that need to be in place. As I have said, an active enterprise policy that makes people have a job to do, is the main prerequisite for people wanting to live in small communities and in the municipalities around. Then we have to have a business policy that facilitates companies wanting to invest further and establish new jobs. We need to develop skills to ensure that the required competences at different workplaces in the public and private sectors are available to those who will establish themselves. In terms of infrastructure, we are going through the national transport plan on the road, on the road and on the sea. It is also important for us to build larger regions and a better common labour market. It binds municipalities together, both in interaction and in cooperation. Welfare services must also be extended. It must be good and safe kindergartens. Public high school is perhaps the finest thing we have in the country, where children and young people come together and develop together, and learn to respect each other from different points of view. We need elderly care to make older people feel safe too. Strong municipalities and regions are important in providing high-quality services to people. It is about a common labour market, it is about centres of expertise, and it is also about the housing market around it. This is interaction between municipalities and regions in counties. In today's Address Paper there is a notice about Ørland and Bjugn municipality. It has provided new challenges and opportunities for a large community, for a large region. Today they have a joint municipal board meeting where, among other things: will see if these two municipalities will merge. The Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Government have provided 20 million. kr in discretionary funds to look at the possibility. This is about stimulating local communities to work together, without forcing municipalities to merge. Voluntary cooperation is the most important thing in the future. In the 1960s we had 740 municipalities around the country, and now we have 428. It is not that it should be static, but any aggregation must be done in a good way. After 12 years as a county politician, I was given the opportunity to see how the county municipality was working. The county is a vital and active developer of strong regions. We see today high-quality secondary schools, we see that dental services with good competence are established, and not least in terms of physical activity and public health, county municipalities will be an important factor in improving the health of the population. After the state took over the county roads to the counties, we see that there is now a flowering in bets on traffic around the counties. The cultural area is another important area for both identity and community. Fewer elected people who spend their time, competence and commitment do not provide better quality communities — which means fewer contribute. Finally, I would like to say that the large population survey presented today shows that a total of 96 pst. of the people are satisfied with the public services. 96 pst. is a very strong number. In the case of living and living in Norway, there are small differences between parts of the country. Satisfaction with public services is steady over good and increasing. The population believes that they are getting more quality for tax money today than in 2010. At the same time, several service areas have potential for improvement. We are proud, but we are not satisfied – we want to continue Norway for four new years.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e934	Taking the whole country into use is a good idea, but, as has been shown in recent years, acting politicians need to implement it. In the last eight years, we have seen in the District of Norway that the younger families move to more central districts, because they lack infrastructure and business in the districts, something that needs to be done if younger families continue to build and live in the districts. In the eight years I've been a member of the municipal committee, I've met and talked to a lot of people, and unlike Asphjell, I've got the same feedback from the entire district of Norway: people move out because there are several meaningful jobs in central areas. In addition, the central area has a completely different supply of leisure time for these young people than that of the district of Norway. The policy objective of maintaining the main features of the bustet pattern has long traditions in Norwegian policy, while in practice little is being done to meet this objective. Neither the government nor the Stortningen can decide where to live, something of the late Minister of Local and Regional Affairs Åslaug Haga confirmed in his answer to questions in Document 15:130 for 2006–2007. The Progress Party believes that as the situation fades, Norwegian district policy has not functioned after the presidents, and must therefore be seen as a failure. The Progress Party believes that the way forward for positive rural development is to invest in cities and regional centres as catalysts for development, with the recognition that cities and regional centres provide the basis for population growth in the districts, by creating larger construction and work areas. The Progress Party believes that the market will regulate the geographical distribution of jobs. Today’s busses pattern is significantly a result of how the market worked in earlier times. One example is the export of seafood, which has for several hundred years been devoted to scattered bushings along the coast. The party of progress is therefore of the opinion that the market and people's free elections will continue to run the bus in Norway in the future, but then the state will have to provide a satisfactory infrastructure throughout the country, and a tax and tax policy must be put in place to ensure that someone finds it appropriate to set up and keep at work. The Progress Party supports the objective of more robust regions and municipalities, but will clarify that regions are something other than county municipalities. The step-by-step party considers the county to be an administrative structure which is of little use for regional development. The Progress Party believes that the actions proposed in this message are too narrow, and hardly will be sufficient to meet the set targets. The progressing party believes that the right tool for achieving more robust municipalities is bundling municipalities. In order to strengthen local self-government and make work much more interesting for our local politicians, the Progress Party believes that municipalities could take over many of the county councils' responsibilities and that the county council is an unnecessary administrative unit. I would like to refer here to our proposals in previous cases, where we have clarified what tasks can be transferred from county municipalities to municipalities. The Progress Party believes that the development of the local economy means that there is a need for reform. At present, there are almost 50 municipalities on the so-called ROBEK list, which restricts these municipalities' financial gambling and their ability to fulfil their duties and obligations when it comes to services for their inhabitants. The Progress Party wants government support to be based on a need-driven state funding scheme. Furthermore, we believe that there must be an opening for free tax holders, and that the corporate tax should be returned to the municipalities. As I have said before, the Progress Party believes that a good and appropriate infrastructure is an essential tool for strengthening districts. This is why we find it striking that in the last eight years of multi-annual government there has not been a significantly stronger investment in national infrastructure. The economy depends on high deliverability, as with other fast and efficient transport of goods. Norwegian roads are far from meeting the standards required for efficient transport. A better approach is essential for the business community in the districts and for securing local jobs. The party of progress will point out that the government emphasises that industry needs a reliable transport supply to stimulate value creation and to exploit the human and nature-based resources that exist in the country. If the government thinks this, I think it's remarkable that they don't syde to follow this up in the NTP. Broadband is another type of infrastructure, which may often be as necessary as a reliable transport offer, in order to ensure access to services and opportunities for coverage across the country. Therefore, well-developed broadband, including telephony and other digital infrastructure, is central to ensuring an equivalent level of living conditions throughout the country. The Progress Party will also point out that it is important that the public tool does not operate in areas where an already well-functioning market exists. This is particularly true in cases where the State acts as a long-term investor and in particular in the low-risk market. The Progress Party also believes that Innovation Norway must be less bureaucratic and more entrepreneurial, and that Innovation Norway should focus on activities that are not in direct competition with schemes offered by other financial and economic operators. The Progress Party also believes that the Innovation Norway Support and Support Schemes are being run by general and national authorities. The Progress Party wants the BU scheme to be stepped down because it takes care of regional policy rather than industrial policy considerations. We believe it is important to focus on enterprise development and innovation across the country, but then based on the principle that the schemes are made general and independent of municipal and county boundaries. The Progress Party is concerned that Norway should appear as an attractive place to localise enterprises, including that foreign companies, in line with Norwegian-owned companies, should be able to benefit from the arrangements and different instruments in Norway as long as they establish and register and have economic activity in Norway. The Progress Party is of the opinion that for Norway, foreign direct investment can mean employment, increased competence and better access to foreign markets. The Progress Party will stress the importance of stimulating innovation in public procurement. Extensive use of public new purchases of goods and services can contribute to the creation and development of new businesses, both locally and regionally. Norway’s geological surveys estimate that Norway has an estimated 1,500 billion mineral deposits. kr, depending on the world market prices of these resources. The industry employed approx. 5 500 people, translated for approx. 11 B.C.E. kr and export for approx. 6.6 B.C.E. kr per year. These are numbers that can increase with the right framework conditions and care. The Progress Party wants to prioritise areas such as oil and gas, maritime/offshore and marine as well as biotechnological research. Norwegian business and working life is a driving force in competence. It requires that we have educational institutions that have seen the quality of the high seat. The Progress Party believes that it is well possible to use the whole country, but then today's tools have to change, and there has to be a completely different policy, a policy that is in line with the Progress Party's wishes. As the case spokesman demanded: there is no proposal for changes from the Progress Party's side, but I can promise the sitting government that if there is a change of government after the elections in September, I don't think it's difficult for the Progress Party, together with the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, to come up with sensible arrangements that can make the whole country use in a satisfactory way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e983	Right-wing believes it is important to facilitate the individual's real freedom to live where he or she wants to. The aim is to take care of the main features of the housing pattern and trigger the value creation potential in all parts of the country. Efforts to promote regional policy objectives shall also contribute to enhancing competitiveness vis-à-vis other countries. Norway is a country with great diversity and diversity. Through district policy, it is important to preserve and develop this diversity. The main right-wing strategy in regional and district policy is to focus on industrial development and transport. Therefore, we will strengthen the capacity for innovation and start-ups in all parts of the country, with a focus on reaching potential entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. We will delegate and decentralise more responsibilities and tasks to the underlying level and strengthen the infrastructure to make parts of the country more accessible and mobile. And we believe it is important to strengthen the growth force where it is, while at the same time ensuring the basis for good living conditions in all parts of the country. For the Right, it's important to have businesses all over our country and secure the total value creation of the nation. Raw materials withdrawals and primary production in districts are the basis for large parts of our country’s value creation, and there is too much potential. We need to strengthen this competitiveness. I would like to point out that it is not the state that builds the country, but it is the state's task to pursue a policy that facilitates the functioning and creation of values for individuals, businesses and institutions for itself and for society. I want to underline and highlight the importance of putting the individual in the centre. It must also apply in the area of regional policy. Each of us must be given the opportunity to choose on an independent basis where we want to live and work, and it must be arranged so that the individual has real freedom to live where he or she wants to. It is also important that political decisions are taken as closely as possible. Therefore, the Right wants to delegate more power downwards in central government and spread power and more tasks to the local government sector. Those that are closest to the challenges are and have always been most capable of finding the good solutions. New ideas and better solutions are needed here too, and the Right will therefore have a comprehensive municipal reform to strengthen the robustness of Norwegian municipalities. The labour market is likely to be characterised by increasing migration of workers and service providers over the years to come, but also by increased competition for labour between countries. Having a conscious and comprehensive policy to ensure sustainable labour migration is one of the main policy challenges in the years to come. Knowledge and competence, together with diversity in the workforce, are crucial for innovation and industrial development in an increasingly competitive and international labour market and business. In order to maintain the current level of well-being and ensure value creation through a living knowledge-based economy, the Right considers that Norway needs to pursue a policy that enables it to compete internationally for the competent labour force. This, of course, also underlines the importance of labour immigration for District Norway. Many municipalities would have seen a decline in the population had not been the cause of labour migration. It is therefore important to ensure growth-enhancing labour immigration. At the same time, a policy must be put in place to ensure that the competence of migrant workers towards the districts is used in the most appropriate way. At the right, a number of measures have been identified that will attract more specifically specific competences to Norway. In fact, it is not obvious that the competent labour force is just looking for Norway. In Norway, we pay relatively low salaries for academics, specialists and researchers, and therefore it is important to market Norway for foreign labour. Although Norway is an attractive country for those with low qualifications, the highly qualified tend to seek better pay for their skills. This issue needs to be taken seriously if Norway is to be able to maintain and further develop the welfare society of Norway and become a knowledge nation in the future. The right-wing opinion today is that there is too little emphasis on what municipalities and their inhabitants create. The right is therefore in favour of distorting the income system from being a system of state political leadership to a system that facilitates and rewards innovation, growth and creativity. In Norway, with long distances and scattered settlements, we depend on a well-developed high-standard road and rail network. The highways are important arteries in Norway, both in and between regions and for connecting parts of the country. In the alternative transport plan of the Right we prescribe many solutions, and the Right means, among other things. that the State must take a much larger share of investment in essential collective development in the major Norwegian urban areas. If we leave this financial burden to the counties alone, we are at risk that future prosperity in the urban areas will be poor. These tasks have simply become so large and costly that the funding challenge has become a real problem. Therefore, the Right considers that the State must commit to co-financing in e.g.: track projects. We have recently received several reports describing socio-economic profitability in infrastructure projects in a new context. I refer to one example: the E39 Report of the State Road Administration, which was otherwise initiated by the Council of State here in the Chamber. There is a social sub-project where Victor Norman and SNF's analysis apparatus have produced a working paper that shows that bringing society together housing and work regions is a major added benefit. Such linkages of regions provide greater robustness and mobility, which in turn provide a basis for significantly greater growth. The right considers industrial policy to be very important from a district perspective. A profitable business creates jobs, incomes and housing opportunities. The main challenges for the overall industrial policy today are, as we see it, stagnating competitiveness in parts of Norwegian business, a small Norwegian owner-occupancy environment and a notable capital drier, and there is a lack of innovation, especially in nutrient research. Agriculture has a strong link with traditional Right Values such as respect for private property rights, freedom to conduct business, and protection of culture and nature. We will work to strengthen ownership to give farmers and forest users greater freedom to manage their own property. The right is a more profitable and forward-looking agriculture and forestry across the country and stimulates increased food production. Another highly skilled district industry is the maritime industry, which is spread throughout the country, and employs 100,000 people, of whom 25 000 are seafarers. Half of these are officers. The right-hand objective is a viable shipping industry that both contributes to coastal value creation and provides a life base for businesses in the supply and equipment industry. It is therefore important to provide shipping with framework conditions that make it attractive to be located in Norway, thus contributing to the important cluster effect that this provides for the rest of this food chain. The last district industry it is natural to mention is the tourism industry, which is a major and important industry that contributes to many forward-looking jobs across the country. For many family-run hotels in the districts, it is important to get rid of strange taxes on Norwegian capital. This is one of the reasons why the Right wants to reduce the property tax and remove the inheritance tax. The right considers that the Norwegian education system is insufficiently adapted to a reality in which workers must be able to increase their skills throughout their professional life. Both the public and private sectors depend to a large extent on the ability of employees to increase their skills. It is not obvious that higher education institutions in Norway will undertake to organise decentralised education provision. At the same time, it is a reality that parts of District Norway have a training set and experience that regions with a higher level of education have a clear competitive advantage. A more solid knowledge base in Norwegian business is important to ensure competitiveness in the future. The goal must be a Norwegian education system that at all levels can meet the need for lifelong learning for the entire population throughout life throughout the country. Therefore, the right considers that a strategy for a more flexible and decentralised education provision, supported by modern technology solutions, is an important educational policy objective for the competence nation of Norway. The left has also put forward a number of proposals in the Chamber today for which we have great sympathy and sense, but we will come back to it in our overall community reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1027	Five minutes isn't long. I get to talk to the president, and then I get to get back in a three-minute post.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1032	That's probably what the president does -- a little depending on how long the representative talks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1035	Then it'll be exciting to see what's happening here now. At least I should say that regional and regional policies are a policy area that is being given too little attention, both politically, in the media and in the public vocabulary. And if attention is given, it is often presented as part of our welfare or social policy, which government and greatness do to be kind and generous to those who, for most of the historical and nostalgic reasons, are still outside our cities. This is unfortunate, it is wrong – and thank you and the price for having received this big message. The title ‘Entire Norway’ is a good and comprehensive title for the red-green district policy project. We have a large, varied, resource-rich country that has been used and that should be used further, i.e. by further processing existing uses and not least by re-use in District Norway. This is not about social policy but about value creation in the rich sense of the word. If you want to criticise this message for something, it is that it should have been even stronger and stronger on the tool page. I am convinced that it is socio-economicly sensible to use even more stimulants on, for example. housing, broadband, mountain policy, decentralised and flexible education, regional research funds, county and regional development funds, etc., to mention some measures in random order. But thank you to the Council of State and Government for what we've got here. That we want more, is a very good starting point both to implement a big message and to base the message on a more offensive work. Not everyone agrees with this approach. The progress party is scary, but affordable consistent in this setting. The keywords of the Progress Party are ‘market’, ‘people’s free choice’ and ‘a clear link between urbanisation and productivity growth’. If we don't have strong urbanization, productivity goes down, so the Progress Party can tell us in this setting. The argumentation or the thought rack is quite fascinating. The Progress Party criticises the government for misappropriation of district policy, but at the same time they should be happy that it has failed, because they do not want district policy. No, the Progress Party will have market forces undisturbed. It's important to process or even more to cultivate people's free choice, says Right. Lack of meaningful jobs, says Åge Starheim here today, is why we can turn our backs on District Norway. But our point is that we're not going to turn our backs on District Norway, we're going to look even more closely at the resources of District Norway, which are going to be the starting point for modern value creation. Then we can't add up to a society where people live in cities and commute to a popular district to create values or use the resources that are there. We stick with a capitalist socio-economic system that produces inequality in different ways, and that results in unfortunate distributional consequences. Most political ideologies – fortunately also parties – have realised this. Some of the distribution challenges we face are precisely related to geography and to districts. This is where the big difference now goes in Norwegian policy. SV and the red-green plus the Christian People's Party and the Left will more. The Right Party and the Advance Party will be smaller, and so one will increase the geographical inequality and not decrease it. So there's a glitch of the great value creation potential that lies in District Norway. For those of us who want offensive, democratic, regionally anchored regional policy and regional development, the regional level becomes absolutely inevitable. In this sense, it is logical for the Progress Party to remove the county council, because they do not want such a district policy. That the Right wants to remove the county council is a little bit more put on hold, but nevertheless they also have the ambition to remove that actor. But here's probably right a little bit more in the wild, fortunately, and I think maybe we can imagine a development in the Right Position, among other things. As a result of what we have said for many, many years, from this interlocutory, but because we have received an evaluation report that shows just how positive it is to have such funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1056	That was the right time!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1059	Good district policy shall enable living and working, competitive business and the provision of equivalent services throughout the country. District Norway has complex challenges, which need to be addressed by differentiated regional policies, based on regional advantages and with strong regional governance and coordination. There are many policy areas that together constitute a good rural policy. Among other things, the framework conditions, infrastructure development, housing construction and communication solutions of municipalities are very important elements of a good rural policy, in order not to mention an active and good agricultural policy. The Christian People's Party generally supports the main lines of the Single European Act and believes that a forward-looking policy both in terms of housing, employment and infrastructure will serve the districts by increasing both population and value creation in the districts. The Christian People's Party suggests that political decisions should be taken at the lowest appropriate level. For this to be possible, it is assumed that the distribution of power and funding are such that municipalities have sufficient means to carry out their tasks. Norway is a long-term country, with many different municipalities and counties, with different challenges. The Christian People's Party wants to facilitate a living rule of the people locally and regionally, where the elected representatives can take advantage of their local and regional advantages for the benefit of the inhabitants, the business community and the community. A well-functioning local democracy is important, and it is essential that the state governs mainly through a framework, so that local and regional freedom of action increases, and local democracy is strengthened. Through the transfers to the municipalities, the State must ensure municipal space for action and take account of the different challenges that exist both between and within the regions. The income system must also take greater account of district municipalities with high population growth and similar challenges. It is absolutely central that all should be offered quality basic services, regardless of whether you live in the districts or in the cities. The Christian People's Party believes that strong and powerful regions are an important prerequisite for development everywhere in the country, based on local and regional advantages. The Christian People's Party wants a real regional reform to ensure this. The Christian People's Party believes some tasks are most appropriate to add a regional level. We want larger and more powerful regions than today's counties. Such a mechanism will allow for more tasks, such as higher education, regional higher education, research, innovation, business development, transport, culture, health, environment and agriculture tasks, as well as cross-sectoral and over-the-counter planning to be tackled regionally. Unfortunately, in large parts of the country there is a poorly developed and poorly maintained county road network. This also recognizes the government itself. On page 115 of the National Transport Plan: ‘There has been a significant maturity on the road network.’ [[...]] The state road service has documented that it will cost up to 75 billion. to remove the decay of the county roads. In connection with the NTP, the government has proposed an increase of 10 billion. kr in the framework transfers to the counties, which will not be due for more than five years — during the last part of the planning period. At the same time, the system of interest compensation for transport operations is eliminated. The Christian People's Party believes that this will not be sufficient to address the very precarious needs for repairing the county road network. Therefore, we will continue the interest-rate compensation scheme, so that the counties are still assisted in the development and improvement of the county road network. Active enterprise policy is essential for creating values, jobs and good housing throughout the country. Norway is benefiting greatly from a strong and profitable oil industry, which offers opportunities to strengthen the state budget every year. At the same time, however, the situation in inland industries outside the oil industry impact field is difficult. The competitiveness of the mainland industry has been stagnating for a long time, and a strong crown, increased wage costs and increasingly less competitive tax conditions weaken the ability of export-oriented enterprises to compete. Among other things, we see that the forest industry and the forest industry have worn down in recent years, and that the number of people employed in the forest industry has been reduced by about 40 pst. under this Government. An active and good industrial policy is needed. It's also good for the districts. If we are to live in this country, we must have jobs, we must have housing, services and infrastructure throughout the country. That is what will continue to be the challenges, and the challenges will have to be solved if it is to be meaningful in the words ‘to use the whole country’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1096	When we meet the welfare state, it is in all areas like citizens of society, most often the municipality we meet – the municipality's services and community solutions. We now see a population growth over the absolute whole country, sailing if there are great variations, and many areas experience a high degree of centralisation and urbanisation. There are strong demands for the development of our welfare offer, both for those who experience a little growth and for those who experience a lot of growth. Oslo City Council, which is meeting right now, has a challenge that they are going to build about. one classroom for a week, considering the growth of the population in Oslo. It's a big challenge for a city government. But it's important to look at regional and regional policy not only as a separate policy, but as a function of a lot of policies, both in schools, in transport, in health and in all the other parts we work with here. What is at the forefront of the Left is that a good district and municipal policy is about spreading power, shifting power down the system, making decisions as close to the citizen as possible. That is why we want a community reform, that is why we also want stronger regions, and that is why we have proposed what I am promoting today. We want to shift power downwards, and then one has to have such strong units that they can actually take responsibility for the policies for which we want municipalities and regions to be responsible. We want freer municipal taxpayers – we propose it too – and we want the state funding of the municipal and regional sectors to be much more characterised by free resources and not as centralized as today. There are many different themes raised in this message – labour immigration, housing policy, transport and ICT policy. But I want to raise an area that is particularly important for the Left in district and regional policy, and that is value creation. If you do not have jobs and industrial development in a community, the community will disappear. That's why we think it's important to have an active industrial policy, in order to strengthen our districts in particular. Therefore, we believe that municipalities should have more of a company tax in order to have an incentive to create more local business. We also think it makes sense to think anew about Innovation Norway, perhaps sharing Innovation Norway in two, into an innovation part and a district part, which has two slightly different objectives for the job. We also have great faith in SIVA. It has been shown that around 50 incubator environments in the country each year provide 150 new entrepreneurs with help to grow and develop, create jobs and create business and growth. Since the start-up of the incubator programme in 2000, more than 1 000 enterprises have been able to develop through this environment. It produces good results in the form of solid jobs and increased value creation, which we know we need more of, especially in the districts. At the same time, several evaluations show that incubator schemes and innovation environments are too poorly funded. By increasing investment in incubation, we can develop 300-400 new businesses every year, instead of the around 150 that we have today. That is why we are also promoting proposals to strengthen the SIVA incubator programme, which we also follow up with proposals in our revised budget, as we have done in all the budgets we have promoted. Then I will end by addressing the proposals that we have, which are distributed in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1117	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1120	I think that regional and regional policy is about what Norway wants. For me, this was especially visual when I ran back a while from Kiruna to Rovaniemi, from Sweden to Finland through North Sweden. There were many miles without a house, and if there was a house, it was dark in the glass. The contrast is great when running around Norwegian towns. Island communities, mountain settlements, inland – yes, there are houses, there are people, there are workplaces everywhere, and there is light in the windows when we run there in the evening. That's how we want it -- that's what Norway is happy about. District and regional policies are such for the benefit of the whole country. It strengthens the total value added for the whole country, and it encourages balanced regional development, which is a requirement for us to have the highest possible national income for Norway. National income lays the foundation for our future welfare society. Then the skills workplaces are divided across the country. The largest cities have many, the districts have too few. The survey concluded that further centralisation could lead to high socio-economic costs, as resources are not being used to the full. The recipe was not to centralize anymore, but to ensure that we can also build a better environment of competence around the district of Norway. It has long been a cross-political agreement that maintaining the main features of the busnet pattern is important, not just in terms of economics, but because spread buseting is a central part of the Norwegian property. That there are people in the whole country, that there are values created in living communities in all parts of Norway, is one of the things that makes us so proud of our country. Taking advantage of human and natural resources throughout the country is a means of ensuring value creation. Equal living conditions in the whole country are, in turn, a means of achieving the territorial and regional policy objectives. I am therefore pleased that the Committee shares the perspective of the message on knowledge-based value creation and the well-functioning regional labour markets and the ambition of the message to pursue offensive and regionally differentiated policies in order to achieve the regional and regional policy objectives. Then I notice that the opposition has not agreed on a joint remark in this matter either. It's for the opposition's bill, but it must be interesting to notice in such an important case for so many people around the country. All in all, we have today the best popular development in District Norway in over 30 years. More than 100 municipalities had growth in the population in 2011 than in 2006. The main reason for this is immigration, which gives all the rich growth in the population. Growth in the population is also due to a birth surplus, which is the largest in the larger cities. Norway is looking at and showing the country of destination. When we compare what is happening in Norway with developments in Europe otherwise, we stand out strongly. We have low unemployment, we have employment and purchasing power, and the population growth is very large. At the same time, we have relatively small regional differences. Different parts of the country have different challenges and potentials. Regional challenges require regional solutions. This means that most of the regional policy instruments are transferred from the Ministry to ensure that we have regional policy tailors' room. The county councils cooperate closely with Innovation Norway, SIVA and the Research Council, all of which have regional policy missions from the Ministry. I'm calling for more clear alternatives to this necessary tailor's room from those who want to shut down the county. I also notice that some parties want the various actors to pursue less district policy. There's a point of view I'd like to think both voters and business operators in District Norway will notice with interest. I recently met NHO's regional directors. Several of them called for us to strengthen the regional policy instruments, because they see, those that are close to – business out there – that they produce results. We have created record jobs in the last eight years, around 340,000, two thirds in the private sector. It also shows that industrial policy is working. This is also why we have had and need a large immigration of workers, because many new jobs are created. So we know that access to a large labour market is between the most important factors when we look at whether an area has growth or not. We have documented in the message the potential of connecting labour markets. Investing in transport means that smaller labour markets can be linked so that people in rural and small agglomerations are given greater freedom of choice when it comes to work and we have an attractive labour market. For this reason, the integration of labour markets is an important strategy, together with reliable and safe transport in all parts of the country. The premise for this is, of course, that one actually wants to invest in traffic in all parts of the country. I am pleased that the government I am in has shown some action in the field of trade. We overburdened the plans when we took over, and in the spring we have put forward a common plan for the journey of time, both in the cities, which is greatly strengthened by its ability to bet on collectives, bicycles and corridors, and in Norway as a whole in a great effort on the railways and roads and on the sea roads. As the Council of State responsible for regional policy, I am concerned about what will happen to traffic if it should happen so crazy that it will be a switch to the fall. We shall facilitate the creation of value added and the development of businesses that generate growth and jobs across the country. Fisheries, agriculture, tourism, culture and energy industries, the marine and maritime industries, ICT and not least the human resources create jobs and the basis for growth and development. A scattered structure for higher education ensures skilled labour throughout the country. We shall bet on traffic, both collective, better roads, tunnels and broadband, to ensure opportunities for all. We also need a strong community economy in the future to ensure good welfare services across the country. The differentiated employer’s fee is essential for regional policy efforts. Different bets in different places in the country ensure good opportunities for business also in areas with large distances and small markets. And not least, the coverage of the districts is going through the sectoral policy. Then there are kindergartens, schools, health and care for the elderly. It concerns health and care security, ambulance and police security or other public services where a cage, when one needs it. District and regional policy is in the best interests of the country. Yes, I would argue that it is precisely this policy – which has for a long time been quite broad, but which I unfortunately see today that more parties will change in total and partially – which has been decided that we are so happy in Norway as we are. It's basically about what Norway is going to be. The government believes that the policy of this message, together with other important messages in sectors that concern us all, whether we live in cities or countries, is the basis for balanced regional development. A holistic policy, where we see nature in work and use the human resources – which are far, far larger than the oil and gas resources, which are also important for Norway's future – is what we need to get life and touch, growth and jobs, so that people can realize their life projects where they want to, in future Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1158	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1161	All the statistics show that it has been a huge centralization since the red-green government took over. I come from a district municipality called Selje, which has suffered a dramatic decline in the population. Both state councils and I come from Sogn and Fjordane, which now have no more inhabitants than in 1946. That means that there have been as many people as those who have been born and those who have moved into the Sogn and the Fjords. I want to ask the Council of State whether this is because of or because of the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1168	Today, the county of Sogn and Fjordane are gathering for a set of things. This is a line which will be completed by the Progress Party. In their decisions, they include: facilitates an increased bet on broadband in the county. They're making it easier for people to be more involved in their trades. Today, they have a schooling plan to ensure good provision in continuing education. They have the power to be with – together with us – and to build a framework for our business and bus services in Sogn and Fjordane in the future. The recipe for a living Sogn and Fjordane and a living District Norway – for Sogn and Fjordane as a district group – is a stronger tool, more district and regional policy and not the liquidation of district and regional policies, as the representative Åge Starheim called for in his speech earlier today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1175	Axle Hagen said that the red-green will more, and that among other things. Right will be smaller. Yeah, sure. Yes, we want less of what doesn't work, and we want more of what works. My question is about something that definitely works, namely the decentralisation of state activities and the relocation of state jobs. The Bondevik II government did this with great success, so then my question is: How has this been done after eight years of red-green government, and perhaps especially the Central Party programme formulations in this area? We are talking about the relocation of existing state jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1184	I have previously said, from both this and other speakers, that if the then state council, Victor Norman, in the process of relocating state jobs – which I am very much for and have spoken of in rosy terms – had taken the trouble of going along the path of real cooperation with the organizations that have joined them, it would have been easier to come after. The manner in which these processes occurred has made it impossible to obtain a pass on them afterwards. We've moved someone out of here. These include: move someone very important jobs to Gjøvik. We have also changed the guidelines for the location of state workplaces, so that new jobs are moved out. But it doesn't help getting any government jobs to small towns when Right wants to distribute the municipal tax credits so that 373 municipalities lose their singing. Then it helps a little if someone gets some government jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1191	As this communication extends across a wide range of policy areas, I expect that it is possible to ask questions that do not necessarily belong to the political portfolio that the Council of State has here. There are many policy areas here. What I want to ask you is about the system of labour immigration. It turns out that the processing time and bureaucracy that meet people who want to work in Norway and the companies that need outside labour are quite unsustainable. For workers outside the EEA territory, procedural periods of up to six months are reported from the establishments. This is a clear disadvantage for Norwegian enterprises, which depend entirely on getting skills from outside. The Committee has recently visited two counties, More and Romesdal and Finnmark, which depend entirely on labour migration. But they're meeting a system that takes so much time, that it's a disadvantage. What will the government do to ease this system?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1200	The Council of State decides even if she wants to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1204	I'll answer as far as I can. First of all, most of the labour migration from the EEA area is, and they can come and go as they please. We have a different system for those coming from outside the EEA. We are working intensively to bring down the processing time for them too, so that one should have a smoother system. I know that my colleague in the government is working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1213	The state council posts were almost to be counted as a celebration or a prologue to a bit of a nice building party. But it bears a bit of the same mark as the message: there are not so many actions and suggestions, except that you have some good goals about where to go. One of the most important things for maintaining housing in many places is jobs — creating a business life and facilitating business start-ups that make it possible to create long-term jobs, which make people think it is exciting to live there. I took up SIVA in my post and the amazing job they've done, but that they would have had an enormously much greater potential if they had got the room for action to take advantage of it. Why does the government not see the enormous possibilities of using SIVA to create more exciting jobs, especially in places where jobs are lost?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1224	First of all, there is a lot of action, with a wide portfolio, in the message – everything from major structural changes to regional enlargement, to the concrete strengthening of, among other things. the offer to entrepreneurs. It's also I'm busy, and it's also the Left's representative, Trine Skei Grande, at the service of, because it's important. This is why it is important that we have strengthened Innovation Norway, and it is therefore important that we have strengthened our regional policy resources, as the Right-Registration – where also the Left was a member – dramatically reduced. It also reduced both municipalities and counties’ opportunities to support entrepreneurs. SIVA is busy by us. We have a very good dialogue with SIVA and the board there. We want to continue our work and strengthen both Innovation Norway and SIVA’s efforts to build jobs and businesses in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1231	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1234	The Labour Party has a proud history of an active district policy. The whole country is to be inhabited, and the country's resources are to be allocated to the entire population. In economic policy, the aim of the Workers' Party is for society to offer nearly equivalent services, for values to be distributed and for the whole population to be involved in the development of wealth. Our district policy is barely fully developed, but we can see good results from this post-war policy field up to today. The balancing element is evident in the income system, where one has sought to build a system that can allow municipalities to provide almost equivalent services to their inhabitants regardless of the location of the municipalities in the country and how many inhabitants they have. The proud slogan of the Workers’ Party, ‘By and Land — Hand in Hand’, means that districts and central struts are interdependent. We have both a city policy and a district policy. We see the country as a whole, with different advantages, challenges, climatic conditions and industrial structure – at all, we have a policy adapted to different conditions in the country. We also have a very different municipal structure in Norway. There'll be changes, we know that, because there's a dynamic process going on. But we're always going to have small and large municipalities. We want urban municipalities, and we want large municipalities with low population density. Kautokeino is the largest municipality in the country with an area of 9,707 km2 and less than 3000 inhabitants. Of course, it's not easy to achieve efficiency in aggregation with others when you have one of those geographies. Norway is diverse, and we are going to have different municipalities in the future as well. The tasks are similar in our generalist community system, but the smallest municipalities, with the weakest business life, need to take the role of development agents and drivers in nutrition. Where business goes by itself, municipalities can focus on their primary tasks. Community structure is an ever-increasing theme for debate. The Labour Party sees the need to change the structure, but it must be up to the municipalities themselves to assess whether they are able to provide the services they are obliged to provide to their citizens. The red-green government believes that the community merger should be voluntary. We now have 47 municipalities in ROBEK, against 116 when Erna Solberg was the municipal minister. This shows that the municipalities have good control, even though we have had a formidable growth in the local economy in the last eight years, as well as very high activity. Keeping order in the economy is a prerequisite for municipalities to fulfil their obligations. Control of the local economy provides space for action and opportunities to strengthen industrial development and to obtain positive processes that can lead to an increase in the population or the creation of new jobs. One of the areas in which municipalities, both in cities and in district Norway, should take over is to make dwellings available. Moving without accommodation is an impossibility. Active housing policy is a good social democratic tool for strengthening housing. Many district municipalities have increased their population through labour immigration from abroad. It is positive, but it also requires municipalities to accept the new residents in a good and proper way. If the new residents are to remain in the municipality, it requires active integration, employers who understand that they have an additional responsibility, and not least communities that accept newcomers with open arms. The action zone in Nord-Troms and Finnmark is continued within approximately the same cost framework. It has been a very good tool for increasing educational levels across a wide range, and I would particularly like to highlight the write-down of student loans as a personalised measure that has proved to be stimulating and equalising. Finnmark still has a low level of education, but the measures work, and it goes in a positive direction. This is a long-term work, and I am pleased that the government is continuing the action zone for Nord-Troms and Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1265	I think this has been an interesting debate in many ways. At the same time, I also see a tendency, especially from the government, to poorer District Norway. That seems to me to be very wrong. There's no reason. In fact, much of the value creation that happens in Norway is done in District Norway. So it's not just oil, oil service, fish and fish processing and stuff like that that happen in District Norway. A large part of what's being exported is being produced there, and there are all-round jobs, which have a huge voltage range. Let's do, for example. Moods of Norway. Now, some people think it's the coffee latte youth in Oslo West, Asker and Bærum who have developed that business, but it's not. This company was developed in Sogn and Fjordane. And this business wasn't developed because of the government's industrial policy, no, it was in spite of government's industrial policy. This was creative youth who had an idea, and then there were these terrible market forces, which Aksel Hagen talked about, that have made Moods of Norway grow up. Creative ideas and market forces mean that we have received the Moods of Norway, which is a success business with extreme growth, and which now also has shops all around the country. And that's the point: that we politicians can't decide what will become the future growth industries. Future industries will be created, they will not be chosen. What we can do, and what we have to do, is create a good framework for a person to live, work and live in the whole country. Then there are many things that have unfortunately gone wrong in Norway in the last few years. The only thing is the bureaucracy and form field. There have never been more bureaucrats in Norway than it is today. I saw some figures showing that companies – private companies – spend 60 billion. kr per year on the form field. And this is not, as the Centre Party sometimes makes us believe, EU directives and EU requirements. No, 80-90 pst. of which, national requirements and not EU requirements. In addition, infrastructure is of course important, both for broadband, for communication via the Internet, and for roads, which are even more important. Now we've got a new NTP, and the Progress Party has put forward a proposal to spend 45.5 billion. more per year. There's something that whole Norway gets to enjoy, especially District Norway. Road investment, as well as ensuring construction throughout the country, is extremely profitable. Øyvind Halleraker was in on this with the E39 and the profitability there, and there are calculations by former Right-State Council Victor Norman showing that only on the stretch between Bergen and Stavanger will the social benefit be 10 billion. kr per year – a win of 10 billion. kr per year. By investing a little over 20 billion. So one will get 10 billion. year by year, year by year, for all futures. Victor Norman put one in charge, and it didn't mention Øyvind Halleraker on the move, and it was that this had to be built without tolls, it had to be built with state resources. It had to be built without tolls because tolls prevent natural traffic, etc. in the case of the labour market, and this would increase the cost to business of transporting goods. So, of course, this is with taxes and taxes. We have to bring that down. We must have better tax conditions. Lower taxes and taxes will benefit the whole country, but above all where the values are created, and that is in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1282	District and regional policy is – and it has always been – an important debate about in Norway, because it touches on something fundamental in us. It touches some dimensions that engage many people. But I am very pleased that in this debate we are also talking about regions, that we have different regions with different assumptions, because the Oslo region is a region, the eastern region is a region, the western country can be a region – we have many different divisions for the regions. I am pleased that we have a debate on regional and regional challenges that are not marked by a foreign perspective – a need for someone to help someone in another part of the country. Then I think I've had a completely different debate than the representative of Hagesetter, because I find no trace of the kind of poor-tuning that he allegedly embossed the debate, especially on the part of the government parties. This must be something that exists only inside the representative's head. There are still challenges, and we have different challenges in the different regions. In my home country, Nordland, there were 138 000 people living in 1962, and in the nation of Norway there were 3.5 million people living in the north. In 2013, we passed 5 million, but there are still only 236,000 people living in Northern Ireland. This means that an increasingly smaller part of the population lives, works and lives in Northern Ireland, and an increasingly smaller part creates values in Northern Ireland. This kind of centralisation is a challenge that we also have in very many other states – both centralisation towards larger cities and centralisation within the counties. But there is no strange phenomenon, nor is there any particular new phenomenon. It's a development that's happened in many, many hundred years. People have moved from the countryside and towards the cities largely since we 'invented' the cities. On the contrary, it is a strange phenomenon that the centralisation trend is weaker here than for example. in the rest of Europe. It's also decreasing. We've seen a slowdown in recent years. This does not happen by itself, it is not something the market has fixed. It is an expression that the political choices we are making have contributed to slowing down centralisation. As the Council of State was involved, in Norway, people live mostly throughout the country, as opposed to, for example, those living in the country. North Sweden and North Finland, where it is very largely depopulated. My home country is rich in natural resources such as water, fish, forests and minerals. We therefore have the best assumptions to create values and revenues for the country – just as many other states have. In Northern Ireland, enterprises exported just under 20 billion in 2011. kr to the rest of the world – mainly to the EEA territory – if we keep ships, oil platforms and oil and gas outside. But if we're going to continue with this, we're totally dependent on having labour – heads and hands – that can do the work, because that's where the great value creation lies. To get this to work, we have to have attractive places, interesting settlements, so people want to keep living there. It's about having Bolyst areas, and it's about having attractive and necessary infrastructure in place. But we also have to have competence. Having and building up decentralised education services, including in parts of the country where the level of education is lower than elsewhere, is a basis for continuing to realise the potential for value creation offered by this large country. This applies either to minerals or to seafood — which we have just announced — and which shows the great potential here for future revenues of the nation. I wonder about the contributions of representatives from the Progress Party, and from the Right, because I have heard that what is being done by the government is not good enough. So what's the answer? That's briefly summed up: we're going to build a road! Representatives of the Progress Party have been involved many times, but they have not mentioned ports or fairways in one word. When you look at the Norway map, most of the country consists of a coastline. But ports and fairways are not supposed to be invested in it. The word railway – which is incredibly important for exporting goods – is not mentioned. Air routes, which are so crucial for a business to compete, are not mentioned. The answers you have are: Road construction, remote county municipality, with taxes and taxes, more market. There are no new answers here. This is old-fashioned policy, and it is not targeted. Then you jump from the Progress Party over the foundation of the high value creation we have, which is just that we have a labour immigration. By getting a new workforce, we have the most important factor in creating export values. This will be abolished by the Progress Party. What about the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1305	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1308	Taking the whole country into use is one of Norway's foremost advantages internationally. There is a lot of forest, sea and mountain in Norway. There are resources here that have been extracted and processed by the generations that have populated the country. Cultivated and arable soils account for only 3 pst. of our land area. Nevertheless, we have agricultural-based food production throughout the country, thanks to a differentiated agricultural policy. Agriculture, forestry, oil and energy, fisheries and aquaculture, mineral industry and tourism are all starting from the exploitation of natural resources in District Norway. These industries will continue to play a major role in the development of districts — housing and jobs, either in the industries themselves or as a basis for innovation and new activities. The differentiated employer’s fee that the Centre Party and the Government managed to reintroduce is a particularly important regional policy instrument. A continued red-green government will guarantee that this scheme is maintained. Lack of risk capital can be a barrier to further innovation, value creation and wider ring-effects in existing activities. It is therefore important, especially in districts where private risk capital can be a shortcoming, that we have good framework conditions, a well-developed instrument and professional public actors that can help trigger more business and socio-economic economic development. Innovation Norway and SIVA are important in this context. In particular, county municipalities have an important role to play. Public efforts through organisation, loans and grant schemes also stimulate more private co-financing. In particularly underprivileged areas, there is a significant point that Innovation Norway can finance establishments that only have a local market or that they can accept higher risks than they would otherwise do. In many parts of the country, we find the main challenges in inland areas. Here we find regions with more traditional industries that have not shared in the strong national growth associated with petroleum, seafood and maritime transport. It is necessary to focus on regional development on a broad basis and to reinvigorate the traditional industries, such as forestry, wood industry and mineral industry. The forest industry package presented by the government will be an important contribution. Global demand for minerals, and metal, are increasing. It is a good basis for the mineral industry, which is a new growth industry, and for new jobs in District Norway. For the Centre Party, it is important that mining is developed in such a way as to safeguard the interests of employment, value creation, local development of competence and the environment. In order to speed up this industry, we have therefore proposed setting up a state mineral company.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1325	I'm still there the last time I left – by the beautiful county municipality. The good and irreplaceable condition of the county/regional level is that they are best in their entirety and contexts. A pinch of regional government agencies can never play such a role, because it is and will become a sector solution, a partial solution, while it is best at anchoring, both politically and professionally. It thus constitutes a foothold in the regional community that is so important for regional development. It is best suited as a meeting place – that is, the central state comes down, municipalities come up, and regional actors – absolutely including regional business – come in from the side. Then you get the good development arena. So when parties want to remove that actor, this arena, they become less credible in their regional political commitment. We who want to strengthen that level – which wants more democratic and holistic regional development – will, of course, increase the size of the county council. This applies to both the task portfolio – i.e. more tasks are added to that level, not least from regional countries, as transport – and geographically. Here the Christian People's Party Geir Jørgen Bekkevold held a beautiful regional post earlier today. It is interesting to sit on the municipal committee when visits are made at random by county councils — often right-wing county councils. The political leadership of the county council has two main messages. First of all, they are happy in the county. The main reason why they are happy in their county community is that they are just going to drive regional development and will have stronger instruments to play the regional development role. There is no need for crisis or exceptional instruments in social development — no, they want the county council to play a general role in the Norwegian social model in order to contribute to positive social development. It's very interesting, but very wise when the county rapporteurs from the Right come with that message to us. Then I want to hit a blow for a sub-activity that I'm busy here, which is very important, that's what's going on in research. And then I'm going to hit a blow for research as big-time. I was here in the plenary room when we discussed the research message. Then I was very concerned with excellent research and research that could also be so-called international competition. But if we're going to be credible and committed to a social development where we really believe that we need to put knowledge, research and development activity at the bottom, we need to have a research and development activity that starts from and goes on across our entire landscape, across Norway. Therefore, research is needed both as a sport of breadth and as a top sport.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1338	The representative Aksel Hagen claims that the Progress Party has no district policy and is not interested in the districts. I wonder if the representative Aksel Hagen really believes in what he says. I will then show that what is decisive for people to live in the district is that there are jobs. I thought that one was aware that one can't only live from public workplaces. There must be other workplaces that give something to society that society can then use to sustain the public. Then I will refer to what is perhaps the most important thing for there to be jobs in the districts, and that is infrastructure. I thought that the representative Aksel Hagen was aware of what was in our proposal for infrastructure. So I hear it's said that it's totally unrealistic to implement. Well, if that's the case, the representatives who think it is must also explain to people that there will be no better infrastructure in the districts, because we can't afford to invest. If there's something we can afford to invest in, it's infrastructure, because it gives a wealth of value to society that's huge. Then I can refer to municipal economy, I can refer to taxes and taxes, which have a significant impact also on people's ability to continue living in the districts. I would like to point out that there are increased opportunities for health and care, which means that people can get services – which in turn may mean that they can live in the districts. And I would like to refer to our proposals – several proposals that go to remove forms – that will also make it better for those who are going to do business by not having to add their own people to fill out forms to report back to central authorities. Then I will also show that we can guarantee that the differentiated employer fee will continue. That's the cross-political agreement about, so there should be no doubt about it. So I'm going to start a little bit from what the Council of State referred to when it's true that today's county is in Sogn and Fjordane and is going to adopt both the one and the other. All right. It has been the Workers' Party and the Center Party that have had pure plurality in Sogn and Fjordane counties in the near ages, and they have had ample opportunity to make the necessary decisions that might benefit Sogn and Fjordane. But what's in the plan for Sogn and Fjordane is that everything should be like it was before. We're going to be small-scale communities in Sogn and Fjordane, and then it won't be weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1356	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to both the Council of State and the Government for this announcement, because I believe it is good, offensive and also at the same time contributes to raising the fronts of this year's elections. You can hardly see, according to my concepts, an area where there are clearer and clearer dividing lines than exactly in district policy. It is so unimaginable that we ensure that it can live people all over the country. It is important for quality of life, it is important for combating crime, it is important for social conditions – yes, it is important for people’s well-being. I listened with interest to the representative Starheim, who in his contribution now referred to a number of points in the policy of the Progress Party that would help maintain employment and housing. But he jumps elegantly over what might be the most important thing. Only in my own country, Hedmark, do we see that in order to maintain the nearly 15 000 jobs we have in agriculture and forestry, we are totally dependent on offensive policies against agriculture in particular. I noticed that it was not referred to the agricultural policy of the Progress Party, but it is interesting to note that with the budgets of the Advance Party only for Hedmark states per year, you would experience that you are spending 400 million. kr. It is clear that it would play a significant role in maintaining jobs and in maintaining the housing we have. I think you have to be honest enough to admit and at least have an alternative to such a serious approach to rural policy as the agricultural policy of the Progress Party would actually be. So doing that kind of cut means I would cost us dearly in terms of housing etc. Then I fully agree with the representative, Mr. Greni, when in her contribution she now pointed out very strongly the needs we have to be able to raise the inland to a greater extent. I believe that it is one of the major challenges we see, and that any future government must be able to deal with – partly as a result, partly by having a two-way economy – but also that one is left with a good deal of parameters. I just want to raise that point in the debate. I am pleased to note that there is a great deal of connection to a differentiated employer's fee. There's a job to do for the future, and the government is doing it. However, I think it is now appropriate to look at opportunities for relaxation in the employer’s fee, especially for parts of the country – Nord-Gudbrandsdalen, Nord-Österdalen – as an additional instrument to help create more jobs and to increase housing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1365	The aim of regional and regional policy is to maintain the main features of our housing policy. It's weird. It is because the Norwegian Storing wanted us to have such scattered housing. The Central Party wants to use our human and natural assumptions for maximum national value creation, with the wish that everyone can settle where they want to. This freedom of choice is under pressure. If we get a new blue-blue government for the harvest, this is no longer a matter of course. Earlier today, the representative Starheim said what the Progress Party has written in its comments: District development is ‘malicious’. ‘Citys and regional centres provide the basis for the rural population’. This is a basic mistake. I've been working on regional development tasks for many years, so I want to turn it around and ask, what is Oslo without its surroundings? Where, for example, lives. The ones who work in Oslo? Do they not live to a large extent in Akershus, Westfold, and Eastfold? It is important for the districts that we have strong and good regional centres, but these regional centres will have no meaning if they do not have a strong surrounding area. Without it, they will lose both growth and importance. The Progress Party believes that a need for a community merger in order to achieve more robust municipalities. All four opposition parties are now entering for collating by force. Right Gunnar Gunnersen wants four municipalities in Hedmark. That means that the municipality in the north gets an area larger than Oslo, Akershus, Østfold and Vestfold together. This is not the way to go. The central party is for a community merger where the municipalities themselves want it. What the right sketches in Hedmark means removing 300 to 400 local populace. These are people who are busy and burning to develop the community and facilitate business development. They will be replaced by several bureaucrats. The municipal reform in Denmark shows that the number of bureaucrats has increased. Otherwise, you won't save anything on merging these municipalities. It is services in municipalities that cost money. If people are to live where they live, you have to have schools, kindergartens, and care for the elderly. One often blames the small municipalities for not having good enough services. The Municipal Survey is based on COSTRA numbers. In Hedmark, all five of the top municipalities on this list are small municipalities. The survey also shows that people living in small municipalities are more satisfied with municipal services than those living in large municipalities. I know that there is a lot of good competence in small municipalities. District message's good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1387	Norway cannot be compared with any other country in Europe. It carries people all over the country, and it's actually a symbol of the Norwegian. The key to progress is work – for individuals as well as for society as a whole. We have a high value creation because we can use the human and natural resources to create values around our country. Twenty million. kr for even more nutritional competence building is one of the actions of the 2013 budget. The action has improved the capacity of universities and knowledge institutions to provide skilled labour to meet the needs of regional business. I fully agree that these are important measures that help to strengthen the business environment and businesses, especially in District Norway, and that will be a good complement to the existing schemes. The funds shall be used to develop well-adapted, practical and industrial provision in the academic spheres, in higher education and in continuing education. Innovation Norway is working in cooperation with the municipalities of SIVA, the Norwegian Research Council and the business community to develop the content of this initiative in the field of industrial property development. Also, a new online service, a founding portal, should make it easier for start-ups to find relevant information and quickly get answers to questions. The 10 million mark. kr is in place, and the service is likely to be ready for use before summer. This is good. One must also see the initiative in the light of other measures for start-ups, such as: the strengthening of new facilities for the establishment, the mentoring system for young people and the supply of many entrepreneurs through the increased investment in commercial and incubators. Today, we see changes in business, in work and in demography. In this context, we must agree that we find a large part of the most globalised and exportable business in relatively small rural regions. The demand for skills is high, including in small and medium-sized cities. One way to strengthen the recruitment of labour to industry, while at the same time spreading growth to a larger area, is to facilitate increased interaction between cities and areas around it. That's why it's good that the government has seen 7.5 million. kr in the 2013 budget for a development programme to strengthen the development potential of small and medium-sized cities. The red-green government will continue to pursue an active and offensive district and regional policy combined with a still good and active industrial policy, including an agricultural policy that makes it possible to build and produce food throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1408	First, I would like to answer a little bit better a question about labour immigration that I received from the Christian People's Party during the exchange of lines. When we were working on the labour immigration message, it was assessed to introduce a pre-approval model for enterprises. In order to obtain a rapid and effective recruitment of skilled workers, the grip was not taken, but a simpler rapid procedure was introduced called early work start. The procedure period has fallen dramatically, because this means that the employer can apply for permission to stay on behalf of the employee. The employee may enter the country and start the work while the application is being processed. This, together with a new electronic case management system, has led to a reduction in time for handling cases, and complaints in time have fallen dramatically. This was a little bit more concrete about it. So the representative Gjermund Hagesets reveals incompetence both in terms of innovation Norway's significance for the development of industry in the districts in general, and in terms of the development of Moods of Norway in particular. I have heard Simen Staalnacke several times saying that it was not for the 160 000 kroner that the county council /Innovation Norway in its time allowed for a rather wild idea – when he was presented – maybe not the Moods of Norway were there today. Since then, Innovation Norway has supported Moods of Norway several times, and when Moods of Norway, a few months ago, was in line with the company of the year and received a prize, they thanked Innovation Norway for its support – with regard to both competence and resources – that they had received. There are many such businesses around this country that had not made progress from a perhaps wild, perhaps exciting idea of becoming a business that can be global in the long term – which Moods of Norway is about to host. Innovation Norway is very important, SIVA is very important, regional research funds to increase its competence are very important. The progress game doesn't understand it simply because they didn't understand it. Agriculture in our country is incredibly important. The party of progress will tear away the most important pillars from agricultural policy. They want to remove the agricultural contract system, they want to remove the import tariff, and they want to weaken the cooperative model. Agriculture policy, together with forestry and the marine industries, is a major concern in the Norwegian industry in the districts. Sorry, I have to be allowed to say that the Progress Party has simply not understood it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1423	Obviously, when I hear the debate here today, it is not just the way forward that we disagree on. I think we also disagree very much on the understanding of reality. When the Progress Party determines that we have a completely misguided district policy, they may not have moved in the same country as me, and they may not have read the same message that I have read. They claim that the districts are depopulated, and that only the big cities and towns are life - styled. Sometimes you can wonder if they have made a mistake at the border and made a trip to Sweden. If you read the statistics in the message, it is quite clear that the movement flow and centralization have slowed down. Population growth in the press areas today largely stems from birth surpluses and migration from abroad. Never have the inhabitants of Norway been as satisfied as they are today. The survey shows that the level of satisfaction in Norway is higher than ever. I'm going to stop looking with lights and lights in the setting according to the tools of the Progress Party in regional and district policy, because the representative Starheim clearly stated that they did not have. They would find that together with their governmentmates if it became a blue-blue government. When governmentmates don't have any amendments and other tools either, I wonder where to find them, and how much time they really have to look for. The only thing that is of amendments here today is from the Left, and there the proposal is actually more of what we have. It is not the instrument SIVA there is something wrong with, but there is disagreement about the size, whether it should be strengthened or not. Some people want more of what we have, while others claim that what we have is completely wrong. I will agree with the Progress Party on one point: infrastructure is important. Infrastructure is one of the most important for creating larger labour market regions, both in press areas and elsewhere in the country. But infrastructure is important throughout the country. The intercity triangle in Trøndelag, around Trondheim, is as important as the intercity triangle around Oslo. That's why we have an ambitious national transport plan that responds to this. We have a national transport plan that allows business development across the country. We have a national transport plan that ensures that roads and railways can be built throughout the country where the resources are. With regard to the financing of infrastructure on the blue side, you can start to wonder what it will look like. The Progress Party has put an end to the fact that toll financing is not up to date. Gjermund Hagesetter claimed that tolls prevented natural traffic. In Trine Teams, we've invented the toll chip.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1438	Oge Starheim has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1441	It is amazing to note that it is also claimed by the representative Heidi Greni that we do not have a district policy. When we go over and over in almost every area, the debt of wanting to spend too much money on everything possible, it's amazing to record that we're going to be guilty of not having any policies. When it comes to agriculture, the representative Storberget wouldn't know that we got the power to do anything about it. If we don't get power now by this election, there may be almost no farmers left when we come to power at some point, because the policy of the current government has resulted in a dramatic decline in the number of farmers. When it comes to the city and the country — regions — it was exactly what I was referring to: this will lead to a larger construction and work force, which is absolutely crucial for one to be able to live in these places. I also want to say what kind of proposals from the Left we want to vote in favour of. That is the proposal No. 1, point 3, paragraph 4 and Nos 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1452	I was given a visit by the representative Olov Grøtting, and then I could not fail to answer it. Yeah, I want bigger municipalities. In Hedmark we have a very well adapted structure with clear regional centres. I want to have a municipal reform first and foremost so that the municipalities can attract enough competence to manage exactly the areas they actually need to manage in Hedmark, and not least to have enough competence to withstand the state overarching we now see a central party government in a number of contexts. The last ghastly example is the Rondane-Silenketten plan, where fourteen municipalities and two counties had worked for three to four years with a regional plan, and where the environmental bureaucracy just sits down, puts a cross over the whole thing and dominates. It's amazing that the Center Party agrees. It's quite ramsal criticism from the county council leaders to the department around that particular process. So to the Great Mountain that mentions the soil and the forest. Yes, soil and forest and food industries and everything derived from them are important to Hedmark. We agree on that, but if there's any experience now that should start telling us, it's that we've regulated the whole business base in the whole world. There will soon be no optimism left, and I think that is the most critical of the way you handle it. I think we can create completely different assumptions. We see it on the forest package that the government has now promoted. They call it a crisis package, but there's not one action that works until next year. It's pretty amazing that you're meeting this with expectations about something that's going to come next year. There are simple transport measures and such things, and there have been a number of more ambitious actions and pressures to get competitive thinking into the bureaucracy as well. But we now have some appropriations that make this package much more focused on the challenges you are actually facing. I think the general discussion should go on that Hedmark is actually the Workers' Party exhibition window. Here we've been driving for two generations, and unfortunately – I'm sorry – we're at the top of most crazy statistics. It's a fact, and it shows that to those degrees you need new thinking. I believe that there are many good measures to be taken, including: This with an employer’s fee, and from Finnmark, the idea of giving up a little student loan might be taken to attract skills. But there is no doubt that the basic way we regulate society has taken Hedmark quite hard, and I am well in favor of all the innovation that the Right stands for here. Perhaps you should come to the realization in the government parties that you can also think a little bit new.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1465	According to the municipal minister, I have revealed my incompetence in the pulpit – the farthest evil out. I do not know who is competent and incompetent here, but I must at least note that since Liv Signe Navarsete occupied the government premises eight years ago, there has been an enormous centralization in Norway, despite the fact that the Center Party says they are working for the opposite. Politics is more than beautiful words. It's an action, and it's about making a result-oriented policy. If the Central Party has joined the government to stop the centralisation stream, the Minister of State should look into whether the tools used by the Central Party are good and whether they fit into 2013. Something was also said about Innovation Norway and Moods of Norway and my point that it was not because of, but despite the government's policy that they have such success. I'm still standing by that. The government has not suggested that it should be the type of operation in Sogn and Fjordane. I get the impression from the municipal minister that it's just agriculture that there's some momentum, and that's important in Sogn and Fjordane. Other things are almost less important. The Progress Party also has faith in Innovation Norway, but not all of our promises are true. Just what Moods of Norway got at the start – NOK 160 000 as a start, so-called seed media – is exactly what the Progress Party has called for many times. We do not have as much Innovation Norway money as the government party, and it may be that there had been a few fewer hairdressing salons with Innovation Norway funds. It may also be true that there had been fewer door factories – door factories competing with other door factories. We have many examples of Innovation Norway money that is being used unreasonablely. Seeds have faith in the Advance Party, and we thought it was very good that the Moods of Norway also got the starter license that allowed them to evolve. The party of progress has simply understood that. We have a different policy, and hopefully we will come to power in the autumn. Then we will show that our policies – unlike the policies of the Central Party – are working.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1478	The main comment in a staging of a staging message is often the first — the general note. Here the Progress Party stresses that they want more market, they want more ‘people’s free choice’, that there is a close link between urbanisation and productivity growth – then the key cities – and that stops there. From this point of view, they seem to want to abdicate more district policy than to bet on this field. Then it's strange that one later in the debate gets very hurt when, from the red-green side, we just point out that the Progress Party here has led – in the general comment they give initially – that this is a field that is being given too much attention in the political debate and in the use of instruments. And that's a reason why none of the potential government partners of the Advance Party join the general comment that this party initially has?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1486	I don't think I put it that way that I said that the Progress Party has no district policy, I think I said that they have no instruments, and I even think that the representative Starheim himself confirmed in his post that they have no instruments – but they should find that together with their possible government comrades. But they have a very clear policy for what is going to happen to District Norway: they are going to build up agriculture. They shall remove the small municipal allowance so that the district councils are not able to provide equivalent services to their inhabitants. They're going to make sure that road and infrastructure development takes place 'where people live', as Siv Jensen once said, i.e. around the Oslo pot, and if it doesn't work out in the districts where the natural resources are, I'm going to stop centralization to Oslo, I'm really surprised. So really it's quite natural that they don't have a district policy, because they're actually putting up for the districts to be depopulated, and then maybe it's not necessary to have such a policy. With regard to the Right bet in District Norway, the answer is municipality structure, and the distribution of funds from the poor municipalities to the rich municipalities. And when we talk about distribution from the districts: the most, most municipalities in Norway are district municipalities. Trondheim Municipality is not exactly a small municipality, but they will lose 35 million. NOK on the scheme to the Right in respect of the distribution of taxes. And then the community structure has to solve all the challenges. Is it going to be a shorter road between us in the Holtdalen and the neighbouring municipality if we join forces, it's going to be cheaper to provide municipal services, and it's going to be easier for us to drive economic development if we remove the resources that municipalities have for economic development? The promotion party drew an interesting municipal map in front of the national meeting. For Sør-Trøndelag they drew a municipal map where Holtdalen, Røros, Tidal and Selbu were to be one municipality. It's a little interesting when representatives from the county who are big candidates draw a municipal map with two different valleys that don't have cross-links, two different valleys, each of which are as large as the Vestfold counties. They will then have very efficient municipal operation and a common labour market region without infrastructure and connection. It would be an interesting municipality to run, and I'm very excited about where they're going to make holes and tunnels, at least between the Neadalen and the Gaul Valley, because that would be a prerequisite for that municipal merger to give some profit for business development or other.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1497	Heidi Greni just had a little repetition of a calculation of the tax distribution and distribution of income to the municipalities that we have rejected many times, so I'm not going to spend any more time on today. But she also had a question about why we have not made proposals – the right has not made any proposals in terms of district policy. Then I think she heard very poorly after my post. But I can repeat a little: the right has proposed a completely new transport policy for Norway, we have put forward a new policy for Norwegian agriculture and forestry, we have put forward a new labour immigration policy, we have announced a completely new municipal reform, we have a different and better tax and tax system that does not affect small and family-owned businesses in the district of Norway, and we have also announced a policy for a completely different practice of the planning and building law and not least of the opposition institute. The list could have been done a lot longer. But this is a message from this government, and this message is given to this government, and then we're going to file our cases in the areas where we think this is important for the districts as well. I think the voters have noticed the outcome of this policy. I actually have a rather definite opinion that the voters have also noticed the alternatives. At least it's showing the digestion. So the truth is that the voters have discovered that the districts have been weakened under the red-green government. That is why new ideas, new solutions in district policy, are at an early stage, and hopefully we will have to do so in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1511	When the Council of State and others from the Central Party talk about the fact that the Progress Party lacked district policy – or at least had a bad district policy – I couldn't stand up to drawing myself into a little post. For, as the Council of State knows, it has been visiting one of the strongest Progress Party municipalities, just to look at a regional policy initiative that has been taken locally, simply to increase the population on a small island. This is a project that is characterized by optimism, which has increased the population from 50 to 60 in a few years, increasing the number of students in school from 6 to 10. This is the result of one being creative, and that one is creating a good district policy, precisely with the initiative of the Progress Party engaged with the Center Party locally. So we have a district policy when we're in position locally, and it's also going to take us into the central position. But when it comes to district policy, there's one thing we in the district are concerned about, and it's transportation and communication. The county council received a gift from this room in 2010, by assuming responsibility for the national roads in the country, and we were also given responsibility for the state road ferries, which are now state road ferries. I have registered that someone has talked about road today, but no one has talked about ferries. This is a big concern for us in the district, because it's important for those who live in the district, it's getting into the central strata sometimes and getting home quickly. And then we are concerned about the material that was made available. It was the state that had offered a ferry package, and when the county took over, a previously concluded agreement took over – with a material that is too old and too bad. I wonder why one should make stricter demands to transport oil pipes in the North Sea than to transport people out in the district. Now the county councils are about to start new bidding rounds, and if one does not make financial resources available from this room, then the county council will not be able to make demands for new buildings – and there is something that is really needed to make it viable for people to live in the district and create jobs in the district. So it is important that the government and the Stortinget note that the county councils should be able to deliver new buildings – which is necessary in the ferry sector – is a necessity to make funds available. For the standard that one took over from the state, it is not good enough to pursue good district policies and drive industrial development in the districts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1522	It was the representatives of Gundersen and Starheim who made me take the floor again. It's strange to hear that the representative from Starheim points out that if you don't get to take over government, there won't be a farmer again in the country. And when I hear the representative Gundersen: this is a description of the interior where we almost score the lowest on all possible social parameters and where everything has gone in the wrong direction. I have two things to say to this: first, I think the description is very crazy, and it will provide an incredibly wrong basis for creating the policy that the government has just pointed to, to create even more housing, even more operation, among other things. in the counties of the country. But it is also strange to think that with such a description of the fact – where one gives a description that the farmer is about to disappear from the Norwegian landscape – the answer from the Progress Party is that one might have to remove one of the most important instruments we have, namely the agricultural agreement, and cut as dramatically as has been proposed in recent years. Yes, even the right cut of over 1 billion. kr – or 5 brd Progress Party. kr – means, therefore, a significant flow of capital from the states that are struggling today, and this is not a one-off event, but something that will happen from year to year. As I said in my post, if you were to base the proposal of the Advance Party on the agricultural agreement, it would only mean a bottling of 400 million for Hedmark. kr every year. Then one is far from the debate on regulation, then we are far from the debate about releasing the farmer, as one likes to call it. This will mean a dramatic estimate of very many farmers — and not only farmers, but also a lot of the food chain related to agricultural activities. Only in Hedmark are these 14 000 to 15 000 jobs, and I believe that before entering the rhetoric and the great heights, towards the regulatory community and its like, one must at least be responsible for these kinds of political proposals. There will be a sin of inaction from us towards an election campaign not to point out that here is one of the most important divisions of district policy, and it should be made clear to the voters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1540	The district and regional message Taking full Norway into use is good. What opposition parties have said here today shows that if there were to be a new blue-blue government for the autumn, we would have a completely different policy. I sincerely hope that we get rid of it, because in the years to come, the Central Party will also use the whole country. The right considers that municipalities need to be merged in order to have wider environments of competence that can take on more demanding tasks. They want to remove a level, the county council, by increasing the size of the municipalities. With the local map of the Right, the municipalities become so large that there will be a very long distance between the individual citizen and the municipality level. And we have competence in the small municipalities, much through cooperation. Instead, I showed the good results of small municipalities. With regard to the Rondane-Silenkladet plan, which the representative Gundersen went up, it is the state level that put the foot down in that plan and that did not accept the good democratic processes that had taken place. The way the Right draws the municipal map, and removes the county council, we will get an even stronger state level and worse democratic local processes. Agriculture and the further processing industry are the most important industries in the district of Norway. In Hedmark, there are 14 000 jobs. In the agricultural settlement of the year, farmers were given a well-deserved boost — a first step on the road to closing the pay gap to other groups. It was incredibly important. It was almost comical – at least strange, as the representative Storberget said – to hear the representative Starheim of the Progress Party describe it so that they should save agriculture only if they come to power. They want to cut net over 5 billion. kr per year for agriculture, removing the percentage – which is crucial for increasing prices – and removing the very important contractual institute. I really hope and believe that the Bondeting, which in these days is gathered in Loen, understands the seriousness – I know they do too – and mobilizes towards the elections to save the important district industry that agriculture is.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1553	In the last few years, we have seen that record municipalities have grown in the population. To the extent that it is a temperature meter as to whether policy is successful or not, we must say that we have the most successful district policy in recent times. We have to go very far back to find a time when there have been equal growth. That growth comes from growth in the number of workplaces. There is migration from home, but also a lot from abroad, labour immigration – which I'm not quite sure if the Progress Party is cheering on – but it means that a thing is getting the skills you need for important industries in our country, including in district municipalities. Then there's someone who's tired, not least because centralization from earlier times turns into a birth defect that doesn't all things to compensate for moving in. But migration, immigration – both refugees who come to our country and stop, and labour immigration – will be very important in the future, not least for district municipalities. So whether it's the government that decides what business Sogn and Fjordne or other states should have: No, of course not. The government creates a framework that allows initiative-rich people, such as the founders of Moods of Norway, to take hold of their ideas and turn them into permanent jobs. Moods of Norway has received support from Innovation Norway several times, not only the 160,000 kroner they received as initial capital, which was important, but also further on. Both the competences of innovation in Norway and the resources available to them are important, but not least the competence. Being a sparring party, being able to work with and drive development forward is important. I hold fast to what others have also said from this pulpit today: the Progress Party has no policy for the districts. Even though I am quite clear that the representative Njåstad was and is a good spokesman, who, together with the Center Party, does a lot of good in his municipality, I would say that it is the exception that confirms the rule. The comment from the Progress Party on this point clearly indicates that one will bet in the cities. One will merge municipalities, one will lay down small municipalities, one will transfer approximately. 1 billion. kr from the small municipality in favour of larger municipalities. Clearly, it may not be said that a person does not believe in the activity of district municipalities in this country. I'm also very concerned, not least when it comes to my home country, when we put down regional research funds. Then I ask the question: what about the highlights, what about the regional highlights, when you say that the regional focus and regional resource allocation are not... [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1568	Then the speaking time is exhausted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1571	It was the post of the representative Halleraker who made me take the floor again, for the representative claims that the right has repeatedly refuted calculations of the consequences of the Right's arrangement for the municipal economy. In my opinion, it is completely wrong, because what the right has done has just been saying that no, this is not the consequences. You haven't refuted it in any way. We've been discussing this for almost three years, and we still haven't seen any other numbers from the Right. They're just saying that the numbers we're providing, the assumptions that have been added, are wrong. It's about the consequences of having less cohesion of tax revenue. It will be dramatic for approx. 350 municipalities in this country that want to lose on it. It is the richest municipalities that will earn it. Returning company tax has been right-wing policy and has been proposed repeatedly in Stortinget. This will lead to major fluctuations, unforeseeableness in the municipal economy, and once again it is the richest municipalities, with the broadest nutrient base, that will mainly benefit from it. In addition, the Right has proposed cutting regional development funds, one of the most direct and effective instruments we have to develop new activities across the country. It's going to remove the right hand side. The representative of Storberget has explained the agricultural policy and its consequences. It will also affect the same people. For those with a narrower nutrient base, with a thin population base, this will be a dramatic policy. In repeated debates in Stortinget, I hear the representatives of the Right refer to their entire municipal reform. I wonder, when are we going to know what this municipal reform actually consists of? We did not get it in the debate on the relationship between the municipality and the state that we dealt with in this hall last year. We do not get it in connection with this regional communication, and we do not get it – as far as I have been able to understand – in terms of the debate on the municipal proposition. When are we going to know what the big, comprehensive local reform of the Right actually means? Is it a surprise to serve the voters on September 10th? What that actually means, right should clarify if you see yourself as a responsible party. Then I agree with the Council's analysis of the relations of the Progress Party with the districts. No, you have no policies for the districts, but you have a policy that will have a major impact on the districts – and in a negative sense. One of the challenges we have in this country is to have access to skilled labour. We have historically high labour migration. It's been very important to dampen the emigration and decline in the population that's been in many districts. There is something that the Progress Party will weaken the possibility of. It will be dramatic for those municipalities that depend on foreign labour to have profitable jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1588	District policy means correcting market forces for the benefit of the periphery. It means creating economies through legislation and economic arrangements that provide a framework for a profitable business in the districts. There are major challenges in this area. There are major challenges for young people to find it interesting to live and work in the districts. For the Center Party, which has decentralization as its mark, it's one of our most demanding tasks. Framework conditions related to transport: there is a discussion here about OPS. OPS is the financing of roads by poor countries. There is less competition, because it is only adapted to the main contractors with good financial links. There is no good alternative for a broad, versatile entrepreneurial environment in Norway. The right makes it possible to have more cost-benefit assessments of transport investment, i.e. to further deprioritise roads where small people live. That's something people in the districts notice. The right is talking about agricultural policy. Agricultural policy is land use policy. When the Right is in favour of a weaker level of customs protection, lower prices and even greater dependence on the State budget. Understand this – and talk about getting free farmers through that policy. The right is talking about changing the municipal structure. We have a number of municipalities in Norway that are being run very well. It is effective and transparent, it is good health care, and prevention is so good that it is a model for many cities and towns. No, the question of changing the municipal structure is a question of centralisation of power. That's what's behind it, but it's rarely said. The biggest threat to the districts is the Right – through its strong ideological tradition of centralising. They are best at centralisation, whether in terms of labour, people or capital. But we have a problem now, and that's that the Right folds away to tell its story. Right folds away to tell its story, and that story is: Right appreciates centralization.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1603	The representative Gjermund Hageseter has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1607	The Progress Party has a district policy – we have a very good district policy. But unlike the government party, we don't have a district policy based on poorer districts – that's absolutely no reason. Much of the value creation and exports from Norway take place in the districts. Therefore, our policy is to provide better framework conditions, to build infrastructure – boatports, roads, broadband, rail and general tools – and to crack the bureaucratise and give them the right of self-government. That would be a good district agency. Then Lundtigen is in on this with profitable road investments. Well, the most profitable road investment is actually the E39, which binds the districts of the West together.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1614	The representative Øyvind Halleraker has spoken twice earlier and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute. Much indicates that the debate is about to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1619	It was Sivertsen who made it necessary to take a little note. He forgets the whole premise of the Right Tax proposal, namely to stimulate increased income and increased activity in Kommune-Norway. In his self-righteousness he also forgot to analyse today's situation. Why is the debt burden on municipalities so great, and why has it increased so enormously in recent years? Why have more and more municipalities seen the need to include property taxes in their income portfolio? And why do we read daily about tasks that the municipalities no longer have to care for and rationalize? The voters have actually discovered this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1626	The representative, Eirik Sivertsen, has also spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1629	I had a big challenge for the Right and the representative Halleraker, and it was that the voters should get a clarification on: When do we know what the content of the wonder package, the great municipal reform, is? When does it come, what does it mean, and what are the consequences? So I'm going to answer what Halleraker is trying to attach myself to in terms of lack of analysis. Firstly, to the debt burden: it has been necessary in Kommune-Norway to invest heavily in welfare infrastructure. We've built better schools, new nursing homes and old people's homes. That's what we're going to do, because it gives us a better welfare offer. Secondly, the Right is talking about the need to do something about tax equalisation in the country, because there is an incentive to facilitate business development. I will repeat, as I have said before: it is possible in the Right that tax incentives are needed to do so as local politicians, but I have not yet taken any local politicians from the Workers' Party who have been engaged in tax incentives to secure profitable jobs for their inhabitants.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1640	I'm from the district myself. We live well in the district. We will also do that when the Advance Party and others come to the power of the harvest. But there's going to be differences – yes, of course it does. We're going to have a business that doesn't spend more than half the day filling out forms and submitting reports to different state agencies, and that makes the ability to create new jobs and new growth disappear. We're going to have a system where you give priority to the full-time farmer. The proportion of full-time farmers falls dramatically under this government. We have never had fewer farms than we have today in modern times – under the red-green government. Norwegian residents — even in the districts — are met with tolls everywhere, because the country is not willing to take its task of ensuring that road and car-related charges paid by its inhabitants can go back to the road sector. This makes it more expensive to live in the district than it should have been. This means that doing business in the districts is becoming more expensive than the competitors we compare with. One also uses import protection as an argument, that one is not able to operate agriculture here if we do not have import protection. The issue is that you have to look at the legislation and framework in agriculture and start to relax. There are also other industries that could be affected by the policy pursued by the government in the field of import protection. If we look at the latest changes from New Year's, related to import protection, there is now a resolution on treatment in the European Parliament, which actually asks the Commission to see whether action can be taken against Norway. The next year will start renegotiation of the fish quota system into the EU. It is time for us to start seeing the policy in a whole – not in part and in part.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1653	When the Progress Party claims that it is fully possible to operate agriculture in Norway without agricultural aid, without agricultural agreements and without import protection, it may not have taken into account that there are slightly different climatic conditions in Norway than in the countries with which we compete. There are slightly different geographical conditions in Norway than in the countries with which we compete. We in the Center Party want a living agriculture all over the country. We want to work to meet the goal that Stortinget agreed to in relation to the treatment of the agricultural and food message, in 20 p.m. increasing food production over the next 20 years. It is not possible if we are to compete with factories in Europe, which have completely different conditions for their agriculture. I believe that Norway has an international responsibility to maintain the degree of self-sufficiency. We cannot wait for the oil money to be used to buy the food out of the hands of those who have too little already. When the Advance Party talks about releasing the farmer, I always get such a picture: It is probably, perhaps, well meant – just as well as when these fur activists let the tummy out into nature. It may be a small moment good for their sense of freedom, but you're the world for a painful death. The representative Halleraker accused me of operating with wrong figures in terms of the distribution of income in the Right Tax Scheme. It's not the first time I've been accused of it by the Right. That's what I think happened repeatedly here in the hall, and that's why I'm asking for the right numbers. Now the Right has had at least one year, maybe two, to bring the numbers that show the consequences of their tax distribution. If we're operating on wrong numbers, it has to be convenient to get someone to put the right numbers in place. So I would like the Right to tell me how to starve the municipalities to lead to more business development, more private jobs, more innovation, etc. Apart from 400 municipalities, less money will be provided, and they will be better able to focus on business development. I don't think keeping company taxes is carrots in terms of economic development – it's an active district and regional policy, where we see the labour market regions in the context, where one has a forward-looking county municipality that ensures that one has a labour market with good competence and good infrastructure, and where the municipalities and county councils have been able to be active business developers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1666	Many contributions have been made by the Advance Party and the Right in this Chamber to bet on the full-time bond. Finally, it was the representative of Nesvik: the full-time farmer was to be given priority. I expect that what lies in it is that the representative Nesvik believes that the farmers who work full-time on the farm will have an income that means that one does not need other income besides, but have full income from their agricultural work. What is the situation today is that with the labour productivity growth that we already have, at 6 pst. each year, a double production volume must be achieved every eleven years. This is most prominent in milk production, which is the whole basis for land use in Norway. This has helped to ensure that the level of debt in Norway has never been higher: it is now almost twice the level of turnover. When you know the profitability in the industry, you know that you're in a very vulnerable situation when you have so much debt in relation to turnover. So in this situation, the Progress Party says that with their policies it should be the priority of the full-time farmer, understanding that it should be easier to be a full-time farmer. At the same time, one says that import protection should be weakened, so that price opportunities in the market are reduced. One of the mantras of the Progress Party is that the appropriations for the State budget should be lowered. We know today that those of us who drive big are the ones who get the big appropriations. The increasing use, with increasing debt — that is where prices go most out, and that is where the appropriations go most out. It's something that's not related. In the industry, in the professionally qualified circles, one was aware of this a long time ago. Therefore, the Progress Party and the Right have little upswing in this context, but it is repeated from this pulpit. Had it not been a thought to try to say more, that the consequence would be that food production would be lowered whether it would be full-time or part-time – for that is what becomes the natural consequence – and that no one would be more affected by what they stand for, lower prices and less appropriations, than those that have been invested in recent times? They will have the greatest loss of income, those who have the most critical situation. A minimum degree of fairness in relation to the sober economic context is also needed in this Chamber. It no longer helps to tell things that are not related, to professionals – they are in the industry, and there are many outside this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1673	Now I'm not a big farmer, as the representative Lundtägen is obvious – he refers to "us" that produces everything – because we've stopped our family business. We did that too many, many years ago, because there was no basis for doing that. I agree with the representative Lundtägen at one point – he said it so well in his post: the debt level has never been higher in agriculture than it is today, and it makes farming very difficult. I fully agree with Mr Lundteg. He represents a government that sits by the power. The agri-food message said that we would have 20 pst. Increases in food production, but at the same time, the Communication also states that efforts should be made to increase organic farming. That makes you need a lot more space to produce the same amount of food. That should also be taken over. So I would remind this assembly of one thing: Fish is also food. We produce a lot of food, yes, we export 35 million meals every day. It's food. There's great potential for producing even more food, and the 20 pst. that industry would also be able to take relatively quickly. But of course we need an agricultural sector. When we talk about investing in the full-time farmer, it's evident from our alternative budgets. There we show how we distribute. Yeah, well, we're cutting off the subsidies. We're cutting subsidies a lot, but we're earmarking the resources that are going to go into, towards what's involved in increasing food production. When we talk about maintaining the level of self-sufficiency: Yes, we are well self-sufficient in food. We export a lot of food in Norway. But one has to try to see these things in context, then there's a lot of action that you can do. I must also say that the constant growth we have in trade across the borders of Sweden must be worrying also for those who represent the red-green ones here. It causes the Norwegian food industry to be the losing party. When we pass 12 billion. kr in commercial leakage every year, there is a significant loss of jobs also in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1690	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1693	I want to focus on one thing: the Progress Party says that a rate of full-time use. And then you use what's shown in your alternate budgets, as a truth witness to it. I have pointed out here what is the sobering economic consequence of the core of the policy: that market prices are falling, that appropriations are falling. It affects most of those who produce the most and who have the largest debt. Why not take up professional knowledge in this area as in other areas? The agricultural policy viewpoint of the Progress Party is weakening the whole party, because it is a reputation for a driver with something that is not enough for him – I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1699	The president's recording the apology. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e1707	Storting goes to voting on the issues on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e2133	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e2143	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e2181	In the course of the debate, Mrs Skei Grande presented seven proposals, the proposals No. 1-7, on behalf of the Left. The proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2, 5 and 6 from the left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the replacement of the counties by a new popularly elected regional level with fewer, larger and stronger regions.’ Proposal No. 5 reads: ‘The government asks the local government to give the municipalities the opportunity to receive all state funding as free funding.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to reorganise Innovation Norway in two different units, one part being an innovation component for entrepreneurs and businesses across the country, while the other part being an instrument for housing and rural development policy.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e2212	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. One, three, four, seven from the left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The government is asked to implement a municipal reform which will result in new, fewer and stronger municipalities.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose the introduction of freer municipal taxpayers.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to return part of the corporate tax to the municipalities as an incentive to economic development.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to strengthen the SIVA incubator programme.’ The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-12.ana.ud1926e2313	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
