ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e72	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative of Thor Erik Forsberg from 7 February until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Stein Erik Lauvås, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e90	Stein Erik Lauvås is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e106	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose to give rise to up to three lines of reply following contributions from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e115	Two large-scale representatives from the Left have made proposals for changes to Section 3 of the Public Service Act in order to strengthen the principle of public disclosure in the administration. The proposal implies a tightening of the wording of Section 3 of the Public Health Act, where it is only in cases where the law prohibits disclosure, that a document may be exempted from disclosure. Publicity in administration is a very important principle in an open and democratic society. Citizens shall have easy access to public matters, legislation and matters relating to themselves. There shall be clear and clear rules of procedure in which the interests of legal certainty and information relating to it shall lead. Equal treatment is a fundamental principle in order to avoid discrimination between citizens in matters relating to the same legislation. Public disclosure is an essential element in ensuring that citizens can engage in administrative practices to see what their rights are, how administrative practices are in different fields of activity, and transparency in how administration treats similar issues as the individual case. The press also controls the administration, and it is therefore important that the press’s access to public documents is easy and unbureaucratic. Public disclosure is also important in recruitment processes for public positions. You have to be able to check if it was the most qualified employee. The administration must practice extensive more publicity. This means that it is only in exceptional cases that a document can be exempted from publication, and it should only be in legal cases, for example. as regards matters of national security and where privacy is strong. The Committee agrees on these considerations and points to the fact that the Storting has provided guidance for the practice of more publicity. The proposers point out that most public agencies practice good publicity around their activities, but there are still some cases where the principles of good and active publicity are not followed. Many documents remain subject to disclosure for «safety» purposes. The government has an important task to follow up on the follow-up to the Publicity Act and the Storting's intentions about more publicity. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right support the arguments put forward by the rapporteurs, and I therefore refer to the proposal that has been put forward in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e136	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e139	Although we don't support the proposal, I don't think it's so much disunity when it comes to public law. Today’s law requires transparency requirements to be assessed in all cases. In other words, there is nothing to suggest that any pre-classification of a document which has stamped ‘except publicity’ should have something to say in order to assess transparency requirements. The practice is now such that the departments can preclassify ‘except for publicity’ where there is a clear obligation to publish and where it is obvious that there is no public transparency. I would essentially argue that today's practice is consistent with what is permitted by law and with the intention set out in the proposal for a representative. If one were to go to the step of prohibiting pre-classification, it could easily lead to an uncertain situation, and it could easily be made a mistake. So the general rule is that people have to ask for transparency, and then the administrator will consider partial or full transparency or refusal, in line with public law. There's a good and safe security in this. I am not aware that there is a basis for claiming that there has been a negative trend towards transparency in recent times. Nor do I see the proposers as such, but there are more documents than there are currently being excluded from public transparency – in other words that documents are being excluded from public transparency on the wrong basis, and that a practice of document preclassification leads to too many documents being excluded from public transparency. The Labour Party is for the principle of more public transparency. Exemptions from public access shall only be made where provided for by law. We can't see the need to tighten up today's law, but we're going to have to pay attention to this principle all the time. That is why today we choose to include the matter in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e152	There's always a bit of a bad danger over everything that we agree on in terms of principles. When it comes to practice, it's not always possible for us to practice it completely in line with the principles. It is quite clear that there is something to be published in the public domain and there is something that is not to be disclosed because of the security of the state, privacy considerations or other considerations. But there's a very large field between these two extremes. I want to symbolize this with an area of great public interest, and therefore the rules have become thin to the limits. This was the case, for example. the documents after the hearings after 22 July, where, in principle, there was a lot of publicity, where all the parties were very public, but in principle they said that everything was to be exempted from publicity. When the matter was pressed to the limit of promise and we had the documents sent over here finished the cord, there was not much that was actually to be exempted from public disclosure in each document. That's the principle we really think should be incorporated into the law with this proposal, that you go much rather into and gossip documents, go into and evaluate the contents of each document in each case instead of taking it 'engross' because you're allowed. You were allowed, you can just call it the internal documents, and so it's allowed to exempt the public. I believe that it is much more important to review the document. You can do that when someone wants to see. But then the document has been in a postal record, so that someone actually gets the opportunity to request it. I think the July 22 process taught us that it is healthy for the public to have the opportunity to see, that a lot of secrecy creates theories and strange notions about what really happened, while public opinion often takes holes on balloons that have been blown up because of conspiracies someone thinks exist. It's good for any democracy to have publicity, but then it's good to have your back margin to practice transparency, and then you have to discuss it on the basis of the basic principles you have on what is to be exempted from publicity, in order to get a good code of practice. The reason we promoted this proposal was a lot of examples that this didn't work out, a lot of examples that, out of routine, things were exempt from publicity. We have even found examples that some departments have already incorporated it in the letterhead and the template that the matter is not public, so you have to actively go into the letter template and remove the exception before you publish it. We have too many examples that we can't do this, and that it's most convenient not to have insight. For example, I see myself. in an internal process it is very healthy and provides credit to the Norwegian government that e.g. various trade unions in general government disagree with a discussion on a case. Finding the disagreement helps to contribute to an informed debate and a more informed decision. It is therefore important to have this public in all areas. This is a clarification that has been made with the leading lawyers in this field, and I hope we will once get a majority in this Chamber for such a kind of legislative change. I think it would have been a great strength for the confidence in our democracy that we are able to achieve such a practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e169	First of all, I want to make it clear that the government sees publicity in the administration as the basis for a well-functioning democracy. People should have access to information and be able to gain insight into societal issues. This creates trust in government, and it provides a better basis for participating in the social debate and democracy. Media and the general public shall also be able to exercise control of the authorities through transparency and to reveal critical and adverse circumstances. Furthermore, there is a strong need for legal certainty here. Publicly, the various actors may become aware of administrative practices and may also request the basis for any discrimination. With regard to the proposal by the representatives of the Skei Grande and the Ten who are being debated today, I agree with the intentions behind it, and I stress that, of course, exemptions from public access will only happen where this is provided for by law. On the other hand, I cannot see the need for the proposed change. I refer you here to my letter to the Parliament's Committee on Justice on 30 October last year. It follows from the Public Service Act that, unless otherwise provided by law, the file is transparent and that all transparency requirements are assessed in a concrete and independent manner. The Directorate-General for Public Law has given clear indications that pre-classification of documents as the clear general rule should not occur. Overall, I therefore feel that what is contained in the proposal has already been taken care of. I am not otherwise familiar with information that suggests that more documents are being exempted from transparency now than before, as the proposal says. I will also refrain from commenting on claims that have been made about the impact of the law in this area. I point out that there are documents and information that should obviously not be disclosed, even if transparency is not prohibited by law. Pre-classification of such material serves to prevent an error from being made transparent. This does not conflict with the principle of transparency. The assessment is much the same here as for the treatment of tissue-coated material. The proposal does not take this point into account and therefore also constitutes a reason why it should not be adopted as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e180	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e183	There were many beautiful words here from one of the government parties, both from the Council of State and from the representative Uppebøen Hansen. Uppøen Hansen commented on what the council would not comment on. He said that too many documents are being excluded from public disclosure today, while the Council of State stressed the need for significant public disclosure in the administration. How will the government now follow up to the government that the intentions of publicity, and not least more publicity, will be pursued in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e188	The simple answer to this question is that it will be answered through the forthcoming evaluation. This is an issue that is very important to ensure that we actually have the basis to make our assessments of whether it is necessary to also make changes to the law. This specific question we have to deal with today, whether or not to prohibit pre-classification, has different aspects that, although we share the intentions of the proposal, we do not see that there is the right way to regulate it, as proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e195	This is a field where everyone agrees on the intentions. Everyone has good intentions, and everyone thinks that it is important for democracy that we do this in a good way. That's why I want to ask the Council of State retrospectively. When we look at the process related to the documents from July 22, everything was not public until now. When you got wired versions, it turned out that it was very small that was actually to be exempted in each document. Doesn't the Council of State think it's a small lesson that we have some reflections that it's bad for the debate to publish everything, but when we sit down and do the proper job, which is about to upload a document in this case, it turns out that there's very little discussion about what's behind the wire as well – there's a lot of understanding about it. What is the Council of States really afraid of happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e201	I'm very concerned with openness. As the Minister of Justice at the time already presented this to the Stortinget on 10 November 2011, it was a point in itself to provide the background available at that time. But this is about rules, attitudes and not least knowledge. So that every day we ensure that e.g. Guides to public law are properly maintained through ministry practice, which is important. However, when this – in this case – leads to the issue of prohibiting ex ante classification, we believe that the proposal, as it has been presented, does not adequately address this challenge. Then, in the forthcoming evaluation, we are also concerned about how this is being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e206	That there are some reflections out there and go when it comes to holding documents, we also had an example of when we dealt with the Court of Auditors' right of access to administrative documents some years ago. Then some of us had the whole apparatus of dispatch managers etc. against us via their state councils who said that it would not be legally possible to implement this. Now, the Riks revision has the right of access to it, and it's actually going pretty well. But I did not feel that the Council of State answered the question from the representative Skei Grande. There was a very big difference between what was initially said to be the legal basis for holding documents back when it was July 22nd, and then it became the exact opposite. Can the Council of State say anything about the reason for the big difference between the legal assessment that was made first and the one that was made afterwards – after there was a public debate on it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e215	This is the area where it is very important to have a political focus. That is why I explained how the Minister of Justice also took a special responsibility through the statement to the Stortinget. I also record that the representative refers to practices some years ago. This is, of course, an area in which we fortunately have quite new legislation in place, but where we also need to see through the forthcoming evaluation whether the law is being practised correctly and whether it is also right to make changes in the light of that evaluation. The internal evaluations of what happened on 22 July have also commented — including politically. One thing was that a number of things failed on July 22, but it was also that the self-evaluation at the time it was carried out was not sufficiently open.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e220	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e236	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e245	There is an up-to-date and relevant debate by the representative Sandberg on the proposal to increase the awareness of dog owners in the vicinity of guide dogs. Today, more than 300 people need to use a guide in everyday life. Although this is not so many, it is crucial for the quality of life and their safety that dogs get to work in peace. I get upset when I read the studies of the Blind League, which show that eight out of ten guide dogs experience being attacked or disturbed while they do the important work of helping blind people get out of society and live better lives. This is all from serious disruptions with a high risk to minor experiences that act as a disturbance in everyday life. The risk to the blind and partially conscious in this way is not acceptable. After talking to several blind people, I am not in doubt that this is a problem we need to focus on, and that requires an instrument. Even if we see that there are events that we politicians think are problematic, the government party is not as quick to propose changes in promises as the Progress Party does in this case. It is important to initiate effective measures, and I do not believe a change in the law is the right instrument. It's probably just a solution that looks good on paper, but doesn't change what's happening in reality. This is because I think that such a law will just be a sleeping law. One, as a dog owner, can already be punished by aggressive behaviour on the part of the dog and if damage occurs. The risk of being punished for not taking good care of their dog is already there. The goal must be to ensure that the most possible dog owners act with care and take better care of their dogs in the vicinity of guide dogs. I think that information about the work of the guide dogs does, knowledge of what kind of consequences a disruption can have, and generally better competence in having a dog gives better effects than regulation. General attention to dogs is not a criminal issue. It's about folk, respect and understanding and the ability to control your own dog. It is also important in this context to say that we are today making clear demands on dog owners in Hundelova. In § 4, first to third paragraphs of today's law, there is already a protection against aggressive behaviour against guide dogs. So, as mentioned before, it's already a criminal law issue when something wrong happens. I have had good and useful contact with the Blind Federation and several guide dog owners in this case and have been presented with stories that make me understand how important it is for several dog owners to be aware of the problem. I would like to invite the Blind Alliance to a further dialogue on what might be the relevant tool to change the dog owner's handholds to ensure that the guide dogs and those who are owned and dependent on guide dogs can move safely. The goal must be for dog owners to understand the consequences of reckless behavior toward guide dogs in work, and to become more conscious and cautious.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e266	As in the previous case, we discussed today when it came to strengthening the principle of disclosure, you hear the same thing and read the same thing in this case. So you're in complete agreement. You agree! In this case there is an overall committee that writes: ‘The Committee agrees with the rapporteur that dog owners should pay particular attention to dogs at work.’ A joint committee writes: ‘The Committee is busy with this issue and believes that a tool should be considered to prevent this type of problem for dogs at work and their owners.’ You agree. I don't understand how the position, the government parties have suddenly come up with some varying arguments that this creates bureaucracy and will eat from the police resources. I could certainly have rammed up a series of laws that have been passed in this house, either with one or the other constellation, that create violent bureaucracy and eat not only of the police resources, but also of a whole series of other resources. But in this particular case, where the Storting is united and agrees that something should be done here, suddenly comes the argument about bureaucracy and eating police resources. In addition, it is also wrong, as the Right Party and the Advance Party also point out in the Committee. When I hear the case rapporteur, who has been in close contact with the Blind Alliance and others, the case rapporteur is clearly convinced that a change in the law might have been in place, because the matter is very topical and very relevant, says the case rapporteur. But to vote in favour of a proposal where you actually do something about it, you don't want to. I also see that the Council of State and the majority of the Committee point out that other areas should be looked for in order to prevent this challenge. I would therefore challenge the Council of State and the majority parties to put forward some proposals or some ideas about how they intend to help prevent this development. So you could say that this is taken care of in today's law. I'm not so sure, because in the cases reported by the Blind Alliance, it's not about aggression from other dogs. It is also not about someone being hurt, or getting hurt. It's all about disturbing the guide dog, and it can be done in many different ways. You might as well take cats into this as well, because I think cats are equally disturbing. So you use arguments that don't exist to say no to a single bill that will be of great use. I've been at Stortinget for almost 16 years, many say it's too long. But is it ever that I have been convinced that I have submitted a legislative amendment that I was 100 pst. I am sure that I will be in favour of this proposal. I was absolutely sure that there could be no discussion whatsoever about joining this simple bill. But here too, you'll find incredible arguments for going against it. I am almost sorry to the Blind League that it is the Advance Party that has promoted the proposal, because I am absolutely sure that someone else had done so, had received full support today. I will end by presenting the motion in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e289	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e292	I'll be very short. The right very much agrees with the previous speaker. You almost want to ask if there's a dog buried somewhere, and that you can't find it, simply because I can't understand why you can't – once again – participate in a proposal that you obviously think has a lot to do. Like in the previous case, you don't choose to do that. We have a choice ahead of us in seven months, but it would have been a pleasure in matters where the Storting actually agrees that that kind of consensus was also expressed when we were going to vote. So I would ask the government parties to vote in favour of the proposal that is in place, even if you did not do so in the previous case. The reason why I'm really taking the floor is because the Council of State can prepare itself a little bit extra for its article on the dog law. It has been provided for a long time that you should have a proper evaluation of the dog law. For those who were involved in the treatment of it when it stood on – to say it like that – it was a bit of a lurking life. The reason is that of course there are extremely many people who are genuinely concerned about animals and dogs – they arouse strong feelings. There are very big conflicts outside and going between those who have dogs and those who don't have them, allergy sufferers, etc. I would like to ask the Council of State in its statement – if she finds time for it – to say when such an evaluation of the dog law will be presented, because there are a lot of people waiting for it. In this respect, perhaps the appropriate instruments, which the rapporteur had in mind, can be found, so that this proposal, which is being voted down today, comes up as part of the government's proposal for a relatively short period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e301	I have a great deal of understanding of the proposaler's desire to enhance dog owners' care for guide dogs. Guide dogs in service make a very special effort and need to do their job without distractions. What I doubt is the effect of a specific criminal sanctioned legislative measure to achieve the desired result. I therefore agree with the majority of the Committee, which believes that increased focus on knowledge and dissemination of information around guide dogs at work will be more appropriate. The members of the Committee from the Progress Party and the Right consider that information work and raising awareness have little effect if the rules on the obligation of the owner to control their dog are not strengthened at the same time. It is worth noting that it is not a question of empty spaces: the general and special care requirements of the Hunds Act for dog owners also apply in relation to guide dogs in service. Serious cases where a dog comes into contact with a person or other dog intentionally or negligently are already punishable by the Dog Act. If one is to have the effect of introducing a criminally sanctioned code of conduct, it is also necessary to assess the possibility for the police to intervene and follow up. The criminal offence will be less preventative if it is difficult to enforce, and it is also appropriate for this reason to show restraint against using such legal measures. I believe that today's provisions are sufficiently comprehensive to ensure the use of guide dogs in service, and therefore believe that they have also answered the question of evaluation by the representative Oktay Dahl.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e314	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e317	I was tempted to comment on Mr. Sandberg's comments, because there he points out that I – quite rightly – stress that this is an important matter. And then he goes on to say that I don't want to vote for a proposal that actually does something about the problem. That's where the question is, what is actually doing with this problem? Sandberg goes on to say that it's not about aggression, it's about a disrupted guide dogs, and then he shows that one could also include cats in this, because they interfere at least as much as dogs. That's when he comes into the nucleus of this case, precisely because one can't regulate everything from one cat running over the road, and one dog sniffing at another dog, to one person hiding away from another. It's about seeing that there's a balance between what we're going to regulate and what we're not going to regulate, but that at the same time one can stress that one thing is important, and that a problem is real. I talked to a blind man late yesterday who said that such a law would not mean anything to him in practice. So he stressed that it's not with evil will that someone indiscriminately let a dog for example. snooping at his dog. Then there are degrees of carelessness that are important here. When a dog is aggressive against another dog, and that leads to problems or damage, it is already being penalized today. That's going to be the way we're going to regulate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e328	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e342	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e351	The voluntary organisations represent a major and important resource in our society. It must be a clear premise that the framework is best placed to enable them to participate in search and rescue operations. I am therefore pleased that the government has strengthened the state grant to the volunteers, has taken out occupational indemnity insurance and increased reimbursement rates. The volunteers have been and are important to us. They're going to be in the future too. The basic and supporting principle for the Norwegian rescue service is the cooperative principle. The principle underpins the organisation of Norwegian rescue services, where the service is organised as a cooperative between a number of public agencies, private and non-governmental organisations. The principle of cooperation expresses the spirit of hard work on which the rescue service in Norway is based, where all the resources of society that are suitable for action in a rescue operation can in principle be used. This principle is to be brought to a close when the Stortinge is dealing with the impact of the Social Security Communication later in the year. We depend on the participation of industry in the major social service. This is about social responsibility and participation in their own communities. It is of great importance that voluntary rescue teams know in advance whether they can be freed from their work to participate in any rescue operation. Rescue operations are undertaken at any time during the day, and the important local preparedness maintained by the volunteers is not possible without the goodwill of the volunteer rescue teams' employers. We have to ask ourselves whether such a system as the Progress Party proposes today will lead us to move away from the basic idea underlying voluntary work. The government's strengthening of voluntary organisations in recent years is a clear public signal of the value of voluntary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e362	I am very pleased that the Committee so unequivocally and clearly signals the broad support for voluntary activity and its importance. I think we all agree that it is of great importance. But then we see a change that has occurred in recent years: It is more difficult to get volunteers into rescue operations, especially those who work in the private sector. We can go back and look at things. various studies that have been carried out since 2006 and up to now, pointing to the challenge of maximising the optimal and most efficient use of resources. It has been historically in Norway, ever since our release in 1905, that when the crisis has occurred, when something has happened, we have stood together, folded up our shirt sleeves and made a hard job, all like one. But we now see in the last few years – not that hard work is disappearing, not that fewer people are involved – that it is more difficult to obtain strengths, more difficult for some who work in private business to take on these assignments, to go out and do the volunteering they have signed up for. I think that's a pretty clear signal that you should take over. The undersigned has had several meetings, including: Red Cross, one of the major organisations involved in rescue operations, also points out that it is more difficult to get people out, especially those who work in the private sector because you have no compensation schemes, while you have it in the state and municipality – there you can go out, and then you keep your pay. I think it's a discussion that the Storting should take over. I also hope that the Minister of Justice and the Government will discuss it carefully. For one thing, standing on this pulpit and saying that what is done in volunteering is good and good, and that we all have to fend for voluntary efforts, but if that doesn't lead to more people coming out and taking the big jobs of possible natural disasters, major rescues and search operations, then we have a problem in the long run. At least then is my intention, and a small challenge to the government and the Minister of Justice, when we ask for these arrangements to be looked at: could you imagine going closer and looking at – and then I'm only talking about major disasters, major rescue operations – to introduce the same principles as you have, among other things. in the civil defence, where at least a remuneration is provided to participate? We are not talking about, as the rapporteur was concerned about, whether the proposals of the Progress Party are rooted in the basic idea of volunteering. The basic idea of volunteering shall be voluntary. You don't have to pay for your volunteering on a general basis, because then you break the principles in view of what's the full range of volunteering. But when we talk about preparedness, large national search operations, where you don't have enough resources on the part of society, where you're totally dependent on the voluntary effort to get good and effective action, that's the case where we also see the problems. As also the Red Cross and several points to, it's in the situations we want to find a system that makes it easier to get everyone out to participate. I hope that the Minister of Justice will at least be able to look into the possibility of introducing some similar arrangements to those of Civil Protection, and take this further with him in the course of the spring to deal with the emergency response and get the big, general debate. That is why I think it also natural that I should promote the proposal made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e381	The representative, Eriksson, has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e384	Both the proposers and the case rapporteur have presented in a very good way the important efforts and contributions of the volunteers in the rescue work around the country. There are countless lives that have been saved and saved with the virtues that voluntary history and until our day have contributed in creating security and saving people from serious situations. It's a spirit of virtue it's important to care for, it's a spirit of virtue that it's important to build up, and the proposers raise a very timely question: is there anything we can do to strengthen that spirit of virtue? On that basis, the right has a great deal of understanding and respect for the proposal, while we know that there is an overall discussion ahead of us, in our debate and consideration of the big message No. 29 on social security. We'll get back to this question right there with our final conclusions. It will be our explanation of vote in this context about a very important and timely question and proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e393	The core of the government's political project is to support a society of small differences, where people experience participation and belonging in small and large communities. Voluntary efforts have a very central place. It's part of the glue that keeps our society together. Therefore, it is important for the government to give the volunteer good conditions. But this is a responsibility that not only rests on the authorities — it is also part of the corporate social responsibility. The value of voluntary efforts for society is well seen in the Norwegian rescue service. Cooperation between the public and the volunteers is the guiding principle of the rescue services. This means that, in principle, all the resources of society appropriate to the efforts of a rescue operation can be used. This common sense makes it possible for us to have a good life support throughout our long-range country. Voluntary organisations constitute a large and important resource. It must be a clear premise that the framework is best placed to enable them to participate in search and rescue operations. The July 22 report shows that the efforts of the volunteers were significant that day. This is a good example of the important assistance provided by volunteers in the rescue services on various missions. By strengthening the state grant for volunteers in recent years, increasing reimbursement rates and taking out occupational indemnity insurance, we have given a clear signal of the value of voluntary work. An important basic assumption of all non-governmental organisations is that the work is just that – voluntary. We shouldn't go through with this assumption. However, it should not be the case that persons who spend their time on voluntary rescue work are drawn into wages when they make an effort to save life and health. It is important that voluntary rescue teams know in advance whether they can be freed from their work in order to participate in any rescue operation. Rescue operations are undertaken at any time of day. The important local preparedness maintained by the volunteers is not possible without the goodwill of the volunteer rescue teams’ employers. It can be considered as part of the social responsibility of business that employers view voluntary participation in search and rescue operations with goodwill. It is also an expression of the thought behind how we have organised the rescue services in Norway. I have recently sent a letter to all the employers’ organisations inviting employers to meet employees who are members of voluntary rescue organisations and who are called to participate in a rescue operation. I keep open whether we have to go another step further, but I think we have to acknowledge that we will need to carefully consider a proposal for possible arrangements for the possible compensation of lost labour income for volunteers involved in voluntary rescue work. We have to ask questions about such a system will result in us moving away from the idea of voluntary work. In addition, there will be a need for a more detailed review of the extent of the need and the economic and administrative implications of such a proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e414	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e430	Initially, I want to establish some very basic starting points, so that we discuss the role of the security industry in society based on what is Right Policy, and what the security industry actually does and does not – or should do. Based on experience over a number of years in the Justice Committee, debates on the security sector are often based on either reconstructed images of what, for example: The right might think of using it for, or intermittently, something that is sometimes based on prejudice or lack of knowledge about the industry itself. Starting point No 1 to the Right and to me is that the monopoly of power of society belongs and will belong to the core tasks of the public. Good control of the weighing industry shall be carried out. That this has always been important for the Right is underlined by a wide range of questions, challenges and suggestions from the Right and the Progress Party on enhanced control of the security industry, which led the government to meet us gradually and proposed a new law on watchkeeping some years later. The situation that led up to it was the possibility for the industry itself to take even greater responsibility for training and security – I say deliberately ‘even greater’ because the fissure layer foreseen by the introduction of the then law was long-term cross-politically downgraded, while the industry itself established the Secure Guard and the Security School, while the public authorities did not follow up. Starting point No 2 is that the Right sees that the watch industry is an important resource that does tasks that the police have not been interested in, or rarely have done. This industry delivers security every day, and if you are concerned that there are too many in the industry, getting better police coverage should definitely go faster. All the time the safety industry employs a lot of people who see, hear and perform a lot in society, it must be a goal to achieve the best possible cooperation between the public and private, police and the watch industry. As I said, the size gathered in the previous period to a new law that would better regulate the industry, after the industry itself and the opposition had asked for it for a longer time. The wish was better cooperation with public authorities. But there is still a part in this field, and that is to the extent that the NHO Service's hearing response to the 22nd July Commission speaks for. When terror struck Norway, the safety industry also played a central role, which has not been particularly well developed. 300 instruments from NHO Service’s member companies had an active role in assisting the police and public utilities: life-saving first aid, evacuation, securing, adapting staff to central institutions such as: NRK or oil and gas installations, handling of the deceased at the Forensic Institute, securing video images of the perpetrator – to mention something. The right share of industry’s desire to clarify what is expected of the security industry in emergency and emergency situations – not because they have to take over police duties, but because they know and use the people who are there, consciously, based on training, practice and pre-thinking. 22 July 2011 the weights were used. They are there in everyday life when major or minor events can happen. Governments must then have a sense of what the industry can use for, and disseminate it so that the best possible outcome for society is achieved. On 22 July, the instruments were thrown out in an extreme situation. They saved and did the best for damage, without being prepared or having trained on it. They had the attitude that they would help and help save lives. It should oblige public authorities in the future not to treat this industry ad hoc but to become a natural and integrated part of society’s overall preparedness planning. Fafo designed a report in 2012 that was ready for this. It is a paradox that there were no municipal or national emergency plans of which the weight companies were part, when we know that the weights are guards also in the public space and in public buildings. Without the weights, not all the problems had been solved on or after 22 July as they were. The guards should be seen when planned. They've got surveillance cameras. They're here 24 hours a day to alert the police. Their presence has become even more important now that the police have got fewer and larger stations. The police are under pressure. As a trusted man says: ‘The instruments should be incorporated into such a plan. We're used anyway by the police. It would make it easier to have clear roles, and to be prepared for major events." To the question of what they need from the police if they are to be part of such an emergency plan, the trustee answers: «Roll clearance and preparation of the situation. We're too poorly prepared to jump into such a situation. We need protective equipment and first-aid equipment. It is difficult for us to know what the police will use us for." A main protection officer says: ‘It is important to focus on cooperation with police, ambulance and fire services. We are first on site, secure and do damage work. It's important to know what to do in such a situation. We should be part of the emergency plans that the police have. We're an extended arm of the police. We assist both police, ambulance and fire services. A good plan is important. I want a plan that says what to do in such a situation. For example, secure external damage site. Then it's good to know. It is okay that we are not inside the repair shop. But, anyway, we go in and give first aid, and take the damage site management. We withdraw when police and health professionals arrive." This is at the heart of why both in the 22nd of July Committee and here today this issue is addressed, because there is a need for enhanced cooperation between the public and what can be described as Norway’s largest private emergency room. The Pulse system, to which I refer, is an exciting project. This is no longer an internal Securitas scheme, but is now lifted up as an NHO Service project. It shall not interact with police systems, but shall live separately and provide the police with real-time information from the security industry, night saws and the like in a separate reporting tool that the police may use to assist in prioritisation of their own resources and in ex post analysis, for the best possible future planning and use of their own resources. It has already reached the stage of testing that it should be fully operational during the first quarter of 2013. The system also has the potential for other crime prevention measures and for monitoring. I hope and believe that the Council of State sees this potential, which once again has been initiated by firemen in the industry itself. When I say «yet once», it is to emphasize the desire that it will inspire the Council of State to further take on the fact that, after the rounds we had in Stortinget a few years ago, the public still does not take full advantage of it. It continues to be felt that almost all police districts interpret and practice laws on watchkeeping differently. There are also too few resources to follow up the weighting industry. The size required five dedicated posts in its time, but this is still not the case. Finally, I would like to mention that the training programme for weight gainers is now being consulted. It is suggested by some that law enforcement officers should be trained less than weights. There is reason to discuss this, for the purpose paragraph of the law on watchkeeping states ‘to ensure legal certainty for those in contact with sentinels’ – or the order guard. Those of us who still go into town know that it might be there -- to say it like that -- most people meet a law enforcement guard, and then often in a conflict situation. The question then is whether they should have the same training as weights for purely professional reasons, or whether this is the wish of, for example: The NHO has been initiated for other reasons and may be detrimental to smaller enterprises. I hope the Council of State will come up with some assessments of this progress in Stortinget – all the time an extended cooperation with the industry requires even better control over it than you have today – where you might find out about things that can be sensitive. So the question is, what future visions do the Council of State have for enhanced cooperation between the public and private security industries to ensure greater security, better use of resources and better preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e475	I will begin by pointing out that it has long been recognised that private security services represent a significant complement to police crime prevention and crime-fighting responsibilities and tasks. Since the interpellant was also concerned with history writing, I can assure you that these were questions I was working on early 1990s. These are important tasks. The watchkeeping companies offer, inter alia: watchkeeping in centres, value transport, accompanying services, risk analysis, aerodrome security, ports and also waste prevention services. The list could have been longer. The security industry also offers a preparedness that may be important in a crisis situation, and many tasks carried out by sentinels differ little from those of the police. It gives both challenges and opportunities. Police can not only defend against all crime in society and neither can nor should they in general be responsible for the regular watchkeeping of persons or property. The international police analysis, which was published last October, also shows that there is a strong global growth in the provision of services and the number of people working in private security companies, and that the police will have to deal with private security actors in order to meet public demand for more security. It's at the same time – and I'm glad that the interpellant also underlines it – the police who are the civil apparatus of society. There is agreement in Norway. The police monopoly involves, inter alia: the primary responsibility of the police for maintaining general order and imposing restrictions on the duties of private watchkeeping companies. These barriers concern in particular the use of power and weapons and access to information. I am concerned that both the police and the private security industry are conscious of the complexity of the interaction between the police's responsibilities and the role of the security companies. The police force, with its higher education, is well equipped to take responsibility for the security of its citizens, either alone or with other authorities, but must take advantage of the efficiency gains resulting from the recognised presence of a competent and well-controlled security industry that contributes to the safeguarding of property and interests. The security companies are doing an important job. A lot of people work well with the police. My wish is that this cooperation should continue to develop positively. In my opinion, the best condition is that the division of responsibilities and roles between the police and the private security industry is clear and not challenged. I believe the articles in the newspaper Aktuell Sicherheit, which are drawn out by the representative Octay Dahl in the interpellation, are good examples of just this. There is every reason to applaud the development of systems that provide police access to the knowledge of the watchkeeping companies through such reporting as is described in Current Security. Nor does it prevent municipalities from entering into such agreements with private custodians – as referred to in the case of Valøya housing and services. On the contrary, it is a clear intention of today’s legislation to establish clear distinctions between real vigilance and other services, and that municipalities and others either set up approved vigilance units themselves or hire services from the private security sector. Increased vigilance will help to make everyday life easier for the police as well. This is also why much work is being done to develop a new central training programme for sentinels and law enforcement officers following the revision of the law on watchkeeping. The interpellant suggests that after 22 July, it is also highly desirable to integrate the private safety industry even more into society’s overall preparedness and work. In HRS cooperation, all voluntary and private actors are well integrated. It is specified in the applicable instructions that the rescue services are to be carried out through interaction between public, voluntary and private institutions. In practice, this works very well. Private actors are often used by the HRS, and HRS has an overview of current private resources at all times. For example, the use of civil helicopters may relate to vessels related to sea rescue and other matters. When major accidents, natural disasters and terrorist attacks threaten key social institutions and our common security, it is essential that they be effectively managed, based on clear structures, clear responsibilities and clear command lines between response actors. Good interaction with other agencies, municipal management, local business, non-governmental organisations and the public is essential for success. In this connection I also refer to the correspondence between the representative Octay Dahl and my predecessor in a written question, No. 147 from 2011. After the terrorist action on 22 July 2011, the awareness of object protection has increased. Securing important features such as buildings, installations, installations and security threats is both about the responsibility of property owners for self-protection with preventive, defensive security measures and about object security with police forces and defence forces to ensure that the situation so permits. The competence of the custodians, precisely on object protection and the preparation of object protection requirements, could also help to clarify the role of object owners in the responsibility for self-security. It can therefore be said in many ways that the private security industry, through its competence and presence, is an established part of society’s overall preparedness planning and response, even if this is not expressed by formalised structures between the police and the security industry. Then I have not – so far – affected the broad cooperation on the development of good technological solutions, which are also of common interest and importance. Of course, there is a great potential here, including economic, for the industry, where cooperation provides better security solutions for its citizens. This is also very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e503	I can't compete in writing history in terms of the number of years I've met in this room, but I want to take the opportunity to welcome back the current Council of State, because the sounds we heard here were a piece away from those we heard under the forerunner. I think it's a much more positive base to involve the private security industry and see that it has a lot to do, and that we should have extended cooperation. So I'm very happy that the Council of State signals that she's open to it, and I hope it's also a different attitude from the government to involve the private than what we've experienced in the preceding six years. What I hope, however, is that this basic attitude also spreads even more to the underlying offices and directorates. So I have a couple of questions I hope to get an answer to. The Fafo report I referred to stressed that cooperation is not good enough. The guards need to practice with the police, know what to do, because they are therefore not sufficiently aware of the role they should have been expected to play. They know, of course, that they are not supposed to use power against private citizens, but when they are first at a crime scene, and there is a terrorist attack, there must be an idea, just as for the police, that they have practiced the situation in advance, so that they can be the best possible resource for the police, who will then lead the action, and know what the police expect from them. Question 1 is whether the Council of State to the POD will clarify the need for enhanced and enhanced cooperation in order to contribute to the removal of precisely the doubts raised in this Fafo report? Question 2: We all agree that there should be a good control of the weighting industry. It also occurred after the Right, along with the Advance Party, for a long time, pressured it. But still, the police districts have different control regimes linked to the guard companies. This means that the more unprofessional part of the industry can shop where control is the worst. That was the case when we started discussing it in the previous period, and so that's partly the case now. So how has the Council of State intended to increase control and ensure that there is uniform control in all police districts of the country? The last question is: When can the Storting expect to get a case or information about establishing a system that provides a complete overview of what is available in response resources? There was a long thought about this system of fools. It's put on ice, as far as I've got. But are there concrete plans and progress in getting this system or similar systems in place to get better preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e516	It is always nice to get some credit for the efforts made to improve preparedness and security, and not least recognition of cooperation with the security industry. It is a fact that large amounts are spent on cooperation with that industry on good security solutions, so I do not remember in describing the attitude that the interpellant claims to have in government or department – or in my predecessors. It is, of course, important that this cooperation is good and that it contributes to the best possible solutions for society. I am talking in particular about the development of good security solutions through the use of technology. Even in the case of the rescue services, I am proud to say that we have perhaps one of the world's best rescue services, precisely because we have got this important interaction with not only the voluntary organisations, but also private actors, and we see examples every day of how a practiced cooperative works well. I'm not going to say, however, that everything is in the best order. We are therefore working to improve solutions at all levels of government and thus provide a good basis for optimum preparedness. I will come back to this in my message to the Stortinget as a follow-up to the 22nd July Commission report and will also address the question to which the interpellant referred, relating to a previous system, Narre, which was used to record the rescue resources available in one of our counties. I notice with great interest that the interpellant asked if I would make a new claim to the Police Directorate. At the moment, I have submitted the letter of assignment to the Directorate of Police, where I have reduced the number of claims, but have been clear on what requirements and objectives have been set in order to achieve good results. Focusing on a better preparedness, if necessary also in cooperation with the watchkeeping industry, may be such a theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e527	I think it was very useful that the interpellant clarified some basic principles at the beginning of the debate as regards the responsibility for basic preparedness, monopoly of power, etc. is the country’s and cannot ‘outsources’. We can then more easily get to grips with the debate on what the actors mentioned by the inter-pellant can contribute. I think there is a great deal about the security-creating presence – which also concerns the presence and everyday preparedness – that weight companies are contributing today and can contribute towards the future. I have to say that in Oslo, I see closely how weight companies have set up people as night workers, and been with and together with volunteer night workers – made a very useful effort there. We have seen that the City Council in Oslo has agreed to rent in weights like Oslo guards at Akerselva. There's been a lot of discussion over and over about it, but my summary of it is that when you haven't been able to get enough policemen to provide a security-creating presence, it's been a contribution that has created greater security for the population in that area. Similarly, weights that have a presence on Oslo S. And there are weights that have developed a collaboration with the municipality around creating safety in cabs and bus stop cows beyond the networks, weekends, etc., developing schooling and better door maintenance around the outdoors. So it's both very good and very useful that this cooperated with the weighting services on security-creating presence, everyday preparedness, etc. is being and is being developed. It's also very dependent on concrete thinking locally. I think it's important that there should be no such square professional mindsets that prevent that kind of interaction, when there's not enough near-police resources to deal with all of those tasks. I think that's unrealistic to think about in the future as well. Although the Storting agrees to build up the local police resources – which we will do every year with the 720 students from the Police College – it will always be important to have other contributions where it can be good and sensible. It also includes better and more cross-cutting use of other public services. In Oslo, we mean, for example. that those who pre-heated car park guards should also contribute more to the kind of presence that we have called the Oslo Guards do. To what goes beyond everyday preparedness, everyday security, which I have been talking about now – and I think there is a lot of concrete cooperation going on around the municipalities, and should be more, and that it has worked well: with regard to preparedness, the greater preparedness, the resources that did not find each other, which we talked about after July 22nd and the Gjørv Commission report, there are a lot of things that need to be improved in order for resources to find each other. That's what we've been talking about; the Home Office, the Civil Defense, the police reserve, how the lack of coordination and use of those resources turned out on July 22. We have improved the assistance instruction, defence and police to work better on it, and the Council of State has clarified how the role of voluntary organisations in preparedness is quite well rehearsed and clarified. In order for all resources to find each other, I think an important question in the big readiness is how weight companies can get in. There is now a major review of local law enforcement by the end of 2013, as responsibility for object protection under the Security Act has to be clarified. When it comes to concreteizing the country around – locally – it will be natural, among other things. to look at the actors in your municipality that can take responsibility for an emergency situation in terms of object security. Then one must think beyond the very central buildings and facilities for which the state's own resources have to be taken responsibility. In that discussion, the interpellant draws up, I think it is important to go further in the concrete way of where you can contribute. One of the fields relates to object protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e542	First all praise to the interpellant for once again putting this issue on the agenda. As also the interpellant was in on, at least the Progress Party and the Right have tried to focus on and put this on the agenda a number of times earlier. I also want to commend the Council of State, because I feel, like the representative Oktay Dahl, that we're getting a lot more positive feedback now than we've done before. As the Council of State itself says, this may actually be the first test of whether what is being said here will also become a reality when we get the emergency message for treatment – whether or not it has included the private security industry to a much greater extent than what has been done in the past. When you point out this with pre-conceived attitudes to the private security sector, it's getting much better. It is shown from the interpellant side to two examples. I was so lucky myself that I had to be hospitating for a whole day and really got my eyes on what contribution private security industry can have in other fields than what you connect with weights – in the correct sense of the word – that you actually contribute with private security, so that health professionals too can make a lot of use of their capabilities and competences in a much, much better way. I still feel that you are indirectly a bit preoccupied with private security companies. I believe that the report of the 22nd July Commission is almost a confirmation of that. The interpellant took up a number of points from the consultation draft, which points to the level of private security efforts in fact had been made on 22 July. The report of the 22nd July Commission does not mention this at all. It should certainly have been in place, because I think that we could have drawn a lot of learning points here in terms of coordination and intervention forces in different ways through cooperation between police, other public services and the private security sector. When you see that the private security industry was also the ones who took care of the police house after July 22nd, and who took care of the government quarter afterwards – and there were a number of other tasks that the private security industry took care of after July 22nd – it is almost logical that they should be brought in much more. I must be allowed to say that when I visited the private security industry in Trondheim, there was actually a goldsmith in Trondheim this day. It is clear that the police took incredibly good advantage of the fact that the private safety industry was first on site and got a signal, car number, etc. There's some of the points here, because the private security industry is all around. Here, there are an incredible number of eyes, hands and feet observing – as opposed, unfortunately, to the police, who are more and more absent. This has become more important and important. But then it is also important for me and the Progress Party that we do not touch the balance. The police are still going to have a monopoly on the police department. This is a balance, everybody understands. Private security is also very obsessive, because they do not in any way wish to have limited police authorities or anything similar. That's why they also demand how important it is that they participate in this kind of emergency plans, so that you are much more aware of what roles you actually have. It's about response time. When the representative Bøhler mentions Akerselva; I don't like the situation that has happened there, because it happened on the basis that there wasn't enough police, and then we have to put in weights. We don't have to get into that situation. This is about a completely different side. I also believe that the private security industry has something to teach us when it comes to communication. Just look at the Securitas watch centre here in Oslo – 170 000 households with shorter response times, alarming the various centers around – the watch departments around the whole country – are very fast and have good response time. What's also interesting about this is that if this watchhouse in Oslo, for example, should fall out, other European watch centres should enter and back up the same system. I hope and believe that when the emergency notice comes to Stortinget, the private security industry is significantly mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e559	Thanks also from my side to the interpellant for addressing an important and timely issue in the fight to limit crime and increase security. In the same way as in the previous case, this interpellation is about the security of society – the broad perspective where it is not a state monopoly to safeguard security and security, but on the basis of the fact that there is a community behind it, it is a virtue, but where it is established that the monopoly is linked to the exercise of power. It's only the state that has. There are many ideal, commercial and volunteers who take a social responsibility in the fight against crime. With the evolution of society we see, and the development of crime we have, it is important that we build on and facilitate broad cooperation on common interests – on more security and security. Let me do an example. There's a website called aftersokt.no. It's an Internet register of stolen valuables. It has been created and operated on a purely non-profit-making basis by individuals. It's a complement to the police's work in combating profit crime. This is an example of the use of modern and new technologies that make profit-criminal information widely available to those who may be affected and interested. It can be shown through this website that it has a significant preventative effect on fighting profit crime, and I also believe that the police have benefited from the cooperation with the actors behind this website, in resolving crime. The right justice fraction has been in close contact with the actors behind this website, and there has been a lot of frustration that has been signalled from there in the form of the counterclaims they have sometimes met from the Justice Department regarding the interaction and information exchange with the police. At least it's our hope that that interaction can get better and better, because here we're back to the core of the interpellation; precisely to facilitate the most effective and good cooperation possible to combat crime. We have common goals, but we have different roles. It has to be clarified in this debate, and the roles and differences there are primarily linked to what both the interpellant and several have been involved, and which we all agree on, that in terms of the exercise of power, there is a state monopoly, but we have so many common objectives in limiting crime that here we have to facilitate even better areas of interaction than what we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e574	I would like to thank you for a good debate. It's one of the better we've had about the private security industry, and it emphasizes what I think the government council with a little goodwill can be said to be, sympathetic to its predecessor and do it to be pleasant. It's great to do that to partymates, but this was something quite different than part of the debates we had about the private security industry in the last period. That's good, because it alerts a more positive attitude, a political shift, from the Labour Party in particular, which I expect is also the whole government's policy. Of course, that is right – and I would like to count on the Progress Party too – pleased. There's a cooperation going on today. The main point of taking this interpellation and pointing out some of the challenges we're still facing is that something remains because it's going on ad hoc in part. I've seen that, depending on which police district you're in. In some places you have very good cooperation with the police, in other places not as well. I have also hosted the weight industry. I was about to say, "Take on your uniform, and you suddenly become very popular." It was quite interesting to see how the people got away to you and perceived you almost as a government official and asked about the road and everything. For the weights also do a lot of things that the police don't do, or have resources to do. So that warning against building up a completely necessary crisis response along Akerselva, I fully agree with Sandberg in, we should not do that. It was a crisis response because you don't have enough police. Then I had two questions that I hope to keep getting answers to. There is no new detailed requirement for police districts to control the weighting industry, but it must be possible to say something about how to help police districts have effective control — not just some of them, but all police districts. So in the case of the Fafo report, which I've shown several times: at least it impresses me when I read how many weighing instruments experienced July 22nd. When they describe the uncertainty they had about what to do, what the police expected of them, etc., it is quite clear that there is a need to strengthen the improved cooperation that has taken place, clearly, under this Council of States. It's not a criticism, but it's just an encouragement to keep up the work you're obviously doing. The fact that fewer detailed demands have been made on the police is a development that Right supports, only it does not evolve to the opposite, with some kind of control tyranny. We're going to go into the allocation letter carefully to look into it. And not least, it's important that the police get fewer jobs, so that we get more policemen who get fewer jobs, which they can do well. This is a good start – we think – when the Council of State has today expired with the letter of assignment as an alert for a new course.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e594	I would also like to thank you for the debate. The reason I'm bringing forward the discussion about how many goals to set before the Police Directorate before it becomes unclear is that I feel that we've had a common goal of making clear goals and demands to the police so that they fail to deliver as promised. When we literally play the ball in the goal from the government, we have to guard against taking the person in pure frustration. When I heard expressions also related to my predecessor, I want to distance myself from the view that seems to take on the assumption that we have very different approaches to the question we are discussing today. I can illustrate in answer to one of the questions asked by the interpellant, what the demand for the Police Directorate to provide increased security, better preparedness, will look like. Police are the civil power apparatus of society with a clear societal mission, and it will be the Police Directorate that assesses whether the watchkeeping companies should be invited to closer cooperation and what it will look like. Of course, it would have to be the Police Directorate who also ensures control of the watchkeeping companies, whether they choose such a strategy for carrying out their task. The controls cannot be resolved more easily in different parts of the country. There has to be a consistent approach here. I am pleased to point out the need for interaction arenas, because everyone is well served that cooperation also with private security agencies or the security industry has such good interaction arenas, and that they facilitate the smooth functioning of cooperation, but of course within the laws and frameworks that apply, both in terms of power use and not least privacy. I want – and the government will come back to this – a stronger neighbourhood police force, and we focus both on increased staffing and on better tools for operational purposes. And with better and more modern communication solutions, the police will also be able not only to do their job better, but also to do it in better cooperation with, for example, the police. the watchkeeping companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e606	Then there's case no. 4 finished. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 5 and 6 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e633	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. It is also proposed to give rise to a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e642	There is every reason to believe that one in these cases is not going to use the entire speaking time. I think I can already confirm that right now when I see the number of people in the hall etc. There is no reason either, because it is unanimous advice in both of these cases. Things are hanging in the middle of nowhere. One is a common EEA matter, while implementation requires necessary legislative changes, and the rapporteur for the next case, Else-May Botten, will deal with this. Case No. 5 which we are dealing with now is about accreditation and market surveillance and decision on a common framework, the so-called product package, which is mentioned. The Decision sets out guidelines for the development of revised legislation harmonising the conditions for placing goods on the market. It goes on testing, it goes on technical specifications, and it also goes on market surveillance. This is also an important issue for Norwegian business, because it has to do with the conditions imposed to bring new goods into the market. There is considerable simplification and standardisation, which should make it easier for all parties to know what to do. The Committee calls for this to be implemented without any changes. The matter has been forwarded to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, which had no comments beyond the adoption by the Economic and Social Committee. With this, I recommend the proposal for a decision by a unanimous committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e655	I am delighted to present the law on the free movement of goods in the EEA, also called the EEA Trade Act. This law implements the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down procedures for the application of certain national technical rules to goods lawfully placed on the market in another EEA State and the Regulation laying down requirements for accreditation and market surveillance for the marketing of goods. The free movement of goods has been part of the EEA Agreement since its entry into force. The rules in the package of goods do not, in this way, imply anything particularly new in principle. There is therefore no reason to believe that the package of goods will lead to a significant change in the level of trade. An important intention of the rules is to make goods safer and to strengthen cooperation between authorities. So what kind of meaning does this have? The product package should strengthen confidence in goods traded in the internal market. This shall be done through better and common legislation, equal enforcement, clearer procedures and administrative cooperation between EEA countries. Free movement of goods is an important driver of increased competitiveness and economic growth in the EEA. Norway has an open economy and it is important for Norwegian business to avoid unnecessary costs by having to adapt products legally traded in Norway to the national provisions of other EEA States. The new legislation will help to improve the efficiency of trade with our key trading partners in the EU. The product package legislation lays down several measures aimed at ensuring that goods on the market comply with requirements that ensure a high level of protection of public interests such as health, environment and safety, and that the free movement of goods is not restricted to a greater extent than permitted by EEA legislation. However, national authorities may require goods to maintain the same level of safety as goods produced nationally. This is particularly true in the interests of the health and life of consumers. There have been few responses to the hearing that suggest anything else than that this is in order. It's very simple and clear guidelines, and as Harald T. Nesvik said instead, the committee is completely in line. We deliver a unanimous setting here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e672	We have proposed that the Storting should consent to the inclusion of three legal acts, referred to as the «package», in the EEA Agreement, and adopt the law on the free movement of goods in the EEA, the EEA product law. The law will implement the two regulations of the ‘goods package’ in Norwegian law. The EEA Agreement provides for a predictable and enforceable framework for the purchase and sale of goods in the EEA. The free movement of goods is one of the four freedoms of the EEA Agreement. It is not correct to say that goods ‘flow free’ in the EEA. Both the provisions of the EEA Agreement on the free movement of goods and a number of directives and regulations incorporated into the Agreement contain rules to ensure that important societal concerns such as health, the environment and safety are taken into account. At the same time, there shall be no unnecessary restrictions on the exchange of goods between EEA countries. The main purpose of the rules contained in the product package is to ensure that goods in the internal market are safe and in conformity with the applicable requirements. It shall also make it easier for enterprises to deal with different EU directives laying down technical requirements for goods. This shall be done by removing unnecessary differences in terms of use and conformity assessment requirements in the different Directives. Regulation No. 765/2008 concerns the harmonised product area, where there are common EEA requirements for goods. Rules for the organisation of national work on market surveillance and for cooperation between market surveillance and customs authorities shall contribute to ensuring that goods in the internal market are safe and in accordance with the applicable requirements. Trust in conformity assessments carried out in other EEA countries shall be enhanced by common rules on accreditation. It provides for the CE marking of goods and states that the authorities must respond to the incorrect use of the CE marking. Regulation No. 764/2008 applies to products not covered by harmonised EEA legislation. For such products, the principle of mutual recognition applies. The principle has been developed in the case-law of the European Court of Justice and of the EFTA Court of Justice and means that an EEA State cannot initially prohibit the sale of a product lawfully marketed in another EEA State. That Regulation lays down rules of procedure which the authorities must follow when taking or intending to take a decision prohibiting, in whole or in part, a product lawfully marketed in another EEA State. Furthermore, the EEA States shall establish a point of contact for goods where traders shall be able to obtain information on the national technical rules applicable to a specific product type. Norwegian authorities have participated in the design of the ‘goods package’ of the European Commission’s Working Group on Goods and Trade Simplification. Draft legislation has been discussed in the National Reference Group on Trade Simplification, where both authorities and social partners are represented. The Commission’s proposal for regulations has been at national consultation and EFTA comments were submitted to EU legislative bodies before the adoption of the legislation. It is important that goods on the market be safe and in accordance with the applicable technical requirements and that Norwegian companies do not encounter unnecessary obstacles when selling their goods in Europe. The regulatory framework of the ‘goods package’ is in line with Norwegian interests and should therefore be incorporated into the EEA Agreement and implemented in national law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e695	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e711	When I prepared this interpellation, I made a quick search on Google about ownership. It is a pleasant theme, even when combined with the name of the Minister of Industry. The search "Gish ownership" resulted in a considerable amount of hits. The search "Gish Private Ownership" resulted in a number of fewer, and fewer of the statements focused on the importance of private ownership. In most of them, the Minister of Industry wanted an active state ownership, and that the state should use its ownership in the same way as a private owner, which was a topic. But that's not my theme today. However, I found an opinion in June 2012 from the Minister of Industry, which was important: ‘Small and medium-sized enterprises are immeasurably important both for Norwegian business and for society in general. They are the backbone of Norwegian business.’ It's a statement that's hard to disagree with. For small and medium-sized enterprises, multiple private ownership is totally dominant. In most cases, there is no alternative ownership. Why do we never hear the Minister of Industry mention it? Therefore, what does and has the Minister of Industry done to stimulate this ownership? What we know is that this ownership is discriminated against, and their ability to develop competitive businesses is severely limited by the taxes on wealth. The wealth tax sails up as one of the most important and conflicting issues in the forthcoming election campaign. It's going to be with well-known fronts, so it's not going to be the main theme today. I therefore have two concrete challenges that I hope the Minister for Industry can give answers to and deepen in today's debate: Does the Minister of Industry believe that the importance of the Norwegian private ownership is as small as the rhetoric of the red-green government suggests? What will he do to stimulate active, diverse Norwegian ownership? Private ownership is important. It is important for the spread, innovation, transition and development of jobs, district policies – yes, for how we want to develop our society in the future. Privately diverse ownership should have a central strategic role, but it does not. The development of private ownership has been left to the rhetoric and has become a throw-off for the simple and one-sided political considerations. It becomes to me a cross of thought when state ownership is the only line of defense against emigration and is what it is called upon on every occasion. It is also a paradox that we are very concerned about access to Norwegian natural resources to have national control and ownership. It is solved by laws that prohibit aliens from owning, but for companies that grow rapidly and have a special competence and a significant potential into the world of competence of the future, we are not committed to asserting ourselves. The last example is Takeda Nycomed's department in Elverum. This is the last example of draining unconnected non-oil competitive jobs. The pharmaceutical industry is a signal industry internationally with its research focus and Norway is losing its competitive edge. The Nordics are innovative, and we're good at starting businesses. It was recently confirmed by a survey that showed that we have most gas companies in the Nordic region, but it is not quite so obvious that we are the worst to drive them to major international actors. Could it have anything to do with weak equity markets and lack of diverse ownership environments? This is not a debate on the taxes on wealth, as has been said before, but one cannot fail to mention that a year-long tax reduction of equity resources from Norwegian businesses and potential investors means that the Norwegian environment a founder can go to is weak and few. Much suggests that the Council of State and I have a slightly different view of the need for the spread of power, but to me this is a very central point. If we do not maintain and further develop diverse and strong private capital and investor environments, it will weaken job development opportunities — especially in districts but generally throughout Norway. Local small investors like to invest in their local environment and in businesses and jobs they know and can follow. It shows research. Without these types of environments, very many jobs and small businesses in Norway will lack the capital they need for healthy development. Lack of focus on what diversity, spread of power and dispersed decision-making environments mean is remarkable in a country with as widespread living and business as Norway has. There is a lot of talk about the development of business clusters in Norway. I understand that there is a broad consensus that the development of strong business clusters is an important part of developing competitiveness in a high-cost country like Norway and in a world where knowledge environments are becoming very central. On the other hand, there is little talk in Norway that competent and strong capital, investor and ownership environments are a very important part of complete business clusters. I just don't think that state capital can take all the roles that a scattered and diverse ownership environment can do in a business cluster perspective. Norwegian industry and competitive business show a fantastic adaptability, and we should be happy about that. It also shows Norway's last business cycle barometer. Anyone who has a certain chance of smelling against oil does, and many are able to compensate for a cost development and an exchange rate development that under the red-green should really qualify for disaster headlines. They would certainly have been told if the Minister of Industry had been in opposition. I consider the claim that this has something to do with Norwegian nutrient structure. We have very many small and medium-sized enterprises with owners who are sitting tight and who work very actively and closely with the company. I dare to argue that without this marked by diversity and widespread and active ownership, the current cost development and currency situation would have been far more dramatic than it appears at present. A number of reports show that family and local private ownership are a good property. It is ownership that creates higher returns and enterprises with close links between employees, management and ownership. Thus, these companies also have good assumptions for innovating and driving active product development. The focus remains on diversity, and thus private ownership is central to the further development of these enterprises. Some companies have made employee ownership an important part of their strategy. Road cover may be the leading exponent of this in Norway. Participation creates strong links between the enterprise and its employees and gives employees the right to co-determination and a strong affiliation to the strategy chosen by the enterprise. There is an obvious strength in a world that requires ever more adaptability and willingness to seek new business areas. At best, the attitude of the Minister of Industry and the Government towards employee participation can be characterised as indifferent. What is at least clear is that all proposals to strengthen co-ownership have been voted down. Finally, I would like to point out that a wide variety of and widespread ownership must also be seen as central to the overall understanding of industrial development, jobs and competitiveness in Norwegian society. Norwegian savings are largely and quite one-sided towards housing and cabins. There is nothing wrong with investing in housing, but it is worrying that as a nation, we are not more concerned with a broader savings base and with developing a general understanding of industrial policy and competitiveness. Ownership overviews from Oslo Børs show that private Norwegian owner environments are very small and almost not present as owners of Norwegian listed companies. Lack of focus on what this means for the long-term understanding of the need for competitive conditions for industrial development weakens Norway’s prospects in the future. This is just an extract among many reasons to focus on the need for diverse and private ownership. Norway has developed a cost level and a well-being that is impressive but also very demanding to defend. Dissemination and diversity of ownership and strong industrial development environments are central to meeting that challenge. I am amazed that the red-greens dare to drown the debate in rhetoric. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e761	Let me first answer the interpellant's question about whether the government cares about facilitating private ownership. The answer is an unambiguous and noisy yes. We create a good business, and in a good business there is absolutely a good private ownership. Our value creation depends on the establishment, further development and operation of profitable businesses, investment, the possession of owners who are impatient and ambitious with the company's operations, and who provide good management and operations and healthy, competitive businesses. Strong leaders and owners also like to cooperate well with employees and contribute with skills, networks and capital. They realise coordination gains and prepare for changes by enhancing their ability to change and innovation. This helps good owners to adapt their business to a changing world, and Norway, as it is known, is doing better than most people. Sometimes, when we have these debates, I wonder whether we live in the same country. We have an economy that is unique in Europe. We have the lowest unemployment rate. We have one of the strongest growth rates. In a Europe with 26 million unemployed and zero growth or decline in many countries, we have full employment and strong growth in many industries. Since 2005, we have established over 300,000 more jobs in Norway and two thirds of them are in the private sector. These are companies that have succeeded in creating profitable business, and it could never have happened without the private owners also making money, establishing themselves, finding capital, skills and markets and succeeding in productive activity. Looking at the development of dividends and value in these companies, it can be seen that, with the exception of the crisis years around the financial crisis, there has also been a strong development in this. By the beginning of 2012, there were more than 487 000 enterprises in Norway. Of these, 38 were pst. limited liability company and 47 pst. individual enterprises. The large number of enterprises show a variety of ownership. And after the government facilitated even simpler business start-up, mainly through a significant reduction in the capital requirement and also through the removal of the audit obligation – two major simplification measures that have taken place under the red-green government – we also see a record in the creation of new limited liability companies. As the interpellant himself referred to, a recent Nordic survey has been published showing that Norway is the strongest Nordic country in terms of gas cell holdings, i.e. enterprises with a very special growth. What, then, are we doing to facilitate still active and diverse private ownership? Let me mention something. We facilitate new ideas by focusing on research and innovation. We facilitate access to capital through seed funds, through Investinor, and through good schemes under Innovation Norway and SIVA. We're making arrangements for entrepreneurs. We're betting on entrepreneurship in education. We're betting that more women should have the opportunity to become entrepreneurs. We give the unemployed who want to start business themselves an opportunity to do it through Nav. We contribute to change, innovation and growth, and thus to diversity. We're setting up a change of ownership. Good ownership shifts contribute to the ownership and management of businesses by people who are motivated and well-qualified and contribute to the continuation of the diversity, knowledge and competence of an enterprise. We are concerned with good recruitment to the boardrooms, and of course we are concerned with good macroeconomic frameworks, such as: the rule of action contributes to avoiding any distortion of the level of interest, inflation or the exchange rate of the enterprise to the detriment of the business of the enterprise. I'm recording that the interpellant will not discuss property taxes. It's far from neat because it's another government council that has the constitutional responsibility for it. But it would have been interesting to hear what this week's position in the opposition was at the property tax. It was supposed to happen after old fronts, I understood, so I guess there's still a removal that applies, with the incredible bias in the distribution policy that it would give, and also with a number of zero-tax collectors. The fact that we have an increased input of wealth taxes also reflects an increased wealth, which is once again a reflection of the fact that very many businesses are doing well. Good and predictable framework conditions are essential. Therefore, the overall economic policy benefits all businesses, all employees and owners. In particular, those most at risk benefit, such as, for example: contractors and innovative projects. A well-functioning capital market is essential. The fact that we have good banks, that we have a bond market, a stock market, that works, and predictable developments in the framework conditions that affect this, is also crucial for companies to have access to the necessary capital. Simplification is, as I said, in full swing. We're going to simplify the situation for Norwegian companies by 10 billion. kr in the year before 2016. Measures for approximately 3 billion. kr is being implemented or already implemented. And we have a number of steps on the stairs that are going to help us achieve the goal of 10 billion. It is also important that we ensure that research and development have good access to funding. Public funding for research and development has increased sharply, with a real growth of 6.7 billion. since 2005. The Ministry of Knowledge estimates that the total R & D effort in the State budget for 2013, including SkattenFUNN, now amounts to 27.4 billion. kr. Then we're still a little bit behind in private research. It's partly due to our business structure. But we still have a promise to make before we are fully in line with other comparable countries in terms of research and development in business. It's an important bet area. We also support the introduction of new tools. I have already mentioned the Research Council, Innovation Norway and SIVA, but just to take one example, the national innovation loan framework has increased from 100 million. SEK in 2005 to 500 million. kr in 2013. Export Credit Norway, a new institution to ensure that we have the world's best financing of export contracts, which also provide good activity in Norway, is established, and new payments in 2013 are estimated at 28.5 billion. kr. The frames of GIEK have been increased as well. When we took over in 2005, GIEK's 40-billion-billion-dollar framework. kr. So that's the It is more than a tripling, and it does not tell us about a competitive private sector, but rather about a private sector that is highly competitive and in strong growth. The government has extended the interest-free allowance scheme for the generational shift in family holdings from seven to twelve years to help the generational shifts of the family-run enterprises, which were also occupied by the interpellant. We have also arranged for companies to be wound up without excessive costs if there are no alternatives. It frees and facilitates capital to invest in other areas. Then I am concerned that we should be happy that the oil and gas industry in Norway is going well. It is positive for the Norwegian economy. It contributes to technology development, investment and activity across the country. We are now exporting goods and services in the oil and gas industry, so if it does not take over, it complements and complements our commodity exports more and more. We're gonna be proud of that. But we should not talk about the other industry either. In the figures presented yesterday by the NHO, there is a clear distinction between the oil and gas industries, which have a very strong growth rate, and the other industries. But other industries also have growth. So it's important not to send a signal to young people who are thinking about taking education and deciding for their careers, that other industries are almost in a state or downturn or are a sunset activity in Norway. On the contrary, Norwegian industry is adaptable, competitive and innovative. Not least because of good owners and good conditions for owners to invest and make good money on their investments in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e793	It would have surprised me if the Minister of Industry had not said that he would facilitate private-sector businesses. Something else would have been surprising. I also think it's a little significant that you start talking about talking down the other industry. That's not what this is about. It's about being realists in relation to the challenges you have, and it was Norwegian industry that was also quite crystal clear yesterday, at the presentation of its business cycle barometer, that for the industry that doesn't have the ability to turn to oil and gas, it's incredibly demanding out there. I think we should recognise that, even though of course we should also be very pleased with oil and gas. That is what has kept the Norwegian economy going, that is what creates a particular optimism in Norway. Of course, we're going to be happy with that. As we have repeatedly said from the pulpit, we recognize that we have an economy that goes well. Unemployment is low, and in the short picture everything suggests that we do a lot of good in Norway. That is why I also agree with many of the measures mentioned by the Minister of Industry. But I notice that as soon as it starts to talk about equity and the companies, there is a distribution policy that applies. I was at a seminar with NyAnalyse. They say that half a million equity is needed behind each healthy workplace. Then we immediately have a challenge with regard to the taxes on wealth. We know that we're focusing on it in a completely different way than the red-green ones. For the red-green, it's a distribution policy. For us, there is a question of a healthy business life. And here are some challenges. I noticed that the Minister of Industry did not mention the equity challenges. He sticks to the rule of action. As I said in the first post, exchange rate developments and the level of costs in Norway are now of such a nature that the Minister of Industry had been in opposition, I think we had had several more statements that this is almost at the disaster level. The cost level is higher than we've ever seen, and in the case of exchange rates, the crown is record strong. The reason why I want to take this up with ownership is that I note, as in the case of Nycomed in Elverum, which was a successful Norwegian business, and which is now fragmented into many – pharmaceutical industry loses competitiveness, there is no doubt – that local debate about this will immediately become that big capital is raging and that international capital can afford. We know that. As soon as international capital enters, framework conditions, competitiveness and the ability to generate profitability become the only criteria under which it is assessed. In this picture, however, private Norwegian ownership is also very important. That's why I'm going to keep this theme warm.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e808	I think it is incredibly liberating that the opposition clearly says that the distribution aspect is not essential in the discussion about the property tax – then we have cleared it away. Every time you are confronted with the distribution effects of the removal of property taxes, you say that you should create some model, which is not completely ready – after seven and a half years – but it may be ready for 9 September. It's been eight years. That must be sufficient. I agree that we need to provide good equity in the companies – I also mentioned it in my post – through a well-functioning stock market and bond market and through well-functioning financial institutions and banks. Not least what the government did during the financial crisis to ensure the functioning of the banking system contributed to the fact that a liquidity drought did not result in the crisis becoming greater than it did. It became smaller in Norway than in most other countries. We have foreign ownership in Norway. We should welcome that. A country that owns $4,000 billion. kr abroad, which has shares in 8 000 companies worldwide through the oil fund, and which also have a number of private owners abroad – large Norwegian companies investing in many parts of the world – shall be open to foreign ownership. I agree – it is important to have head offices in Norway, it is important to have decision-making authority in Norway, and it is important to have investment and jobs in Norway. Our biggest businesses, such as Statoil, Statkraft, Telenor and others, are therefore partly state owned or entirely on state hands. It would certainly be a sale if this were privatised, for these companies are so large that there are no private environments in Norway with leverage to take such a holding. Here, too, there is a fundamental dividing line between the Right and the Advance Party on the one hand and the Government on the other. It could even weaken some of the private capital if one saw that this was to be taken as a raise in the available ownership capital of Norwegian private individuals. Specifically, what happens to Nycomed: When we entered the government offices, we introduced a conversion law that requires the company to be in close contact with, among other things. the county, in order to do everything possible to ensure further activity — discuss with the agency, see what can be done for employees. We're going to be in a world of transition, but we're going to do everything we can to make sure that employees have work and that they have a competitive business. The legislation we introduced helps us to have a good dialogue with the company about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e821	The topic addressed by the interpellant is relevant to industrial policy in general, as I see it. It includes the broad range of industrial policies and framework conditions, lack of ownership of which the State is a major owner or shareholder, and access to finance. It has everything in it. The ownership policy really shows the differences in Norwegian policy – between us red-green and the right. The red-green government wants an active ownership policy. We have tools in the toolbox. We use the tools, and we want to continue to be big owners. Double communication with regard to state ownership often seemed confusing to me when I read in the newspapers. When it comes to concrete matters, for example: in the case of State Forest, a detailed management board shall: The representative, Tjældal, went very far here on the speaker’s chair – he was about to decide down to about a quarter of the only three to be sold. But otherwise, they're some people who want to sell themselves out, or you should sit quietly in the boat – a shell that doesn't have to do anything. The starting point must be that the state as a large owner must be able to set clear demands and expectations for what we want with the company, and lower the foot when we disagree about the course. It's about social responsibility, it's about wages, it's about bonuses, it's about pensions -- to name something. The government will continue to pursue an active ownership policy. Both the company law and the generally accepted owner-management principle give good reason and room for doing so. I want to focus specifically on the state ownership. A main reason why the state will continue to be a major owner is the great importance of many state-owned companies in Norway. The State will therefore have a long-term perspective on its ownership and as a shareholder contribute to the long-term growth and industrial development of the company. Only if the company is competitive over time can it continue and further develop its role in the Norwegian economy and society. The State must therefore promote long-term value creation in the company in which it owns. The companies to be competitive over time must maintain a longer-term perspective than short-term profit maximisation. However, even in active ownership policies, the State will, of course, set market requirements for return and exchange, so that it builds up under the company's long-term value maximisation and industrial development. In particular, companies must invest adequately in research and development as well as in the development of labour skills. An active ownership policy means that the state formulates clear expectations in these areas as well, and that this is communicated to and between companies. Also high ethical standards in all circumstances are important in order to maintain the values and legitimacy of companies. This provides significant additional dimensions in addition to the general business economy requirements for returns and exchanges, and supports the objective of long-term value creation and good industrial development. The red-green government has been particularly busy with access to capital – and that throughout the life cycle of businesses. The action packages with which the government has come underpinned this in a good way. The value creation and income via the tax haven is the foundation on which the welfare of Norway is based. Good, far-reaching framework conditions are important and are very central to the policy of the red-green government. The Norwegian model with its safety net is also important in all of this, because we know that safe people create more. We know that equal opportunities for everyone make it possible for more people to start their own business. A lack of governance is also an important premise in this context. I'm very pleased that we have quota measures in the ASA company. I think it should also be introduced into the AS company. There's a strength to get more women into these companies. It seems that the right might be a little bit in doubt if they're some of them themselves because it was a strength to introduce the 40 pst rule into the ASA, but it might come back to the interpellant later on. We red-green are safely planted to have an active ownership. We put on the leads and give to know what we want and are going to with the companies that we own.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e847	First of all, I want to pay tribute to the interpellant, who raises this theme – and I want to say, again. These are debates that we have at regular intervals in Stortinget, and these are very important debates. I fully agree with Mr Heggø that there are significant lines of division between the red-green side and the bourgeois parties in the Stortinget. When the representative Hegø talks about how important it is to have this ownership, the private ownership, she spends four minutes talking about how important it is with state ownership, and then she comes into the private at the end. And she ended up with how important it was with quotaing. I believe that in terms of governance, competence is the most important thing. You have to choose from competence. Quotaation introduces completely different requirements. At least the undersigned is strongly opposed to quotaing. I believe that women and men are just as competent, and no one needs to be quotad into this. A small comment also to the Council of State: he talked about the wealth tax and, as usual, tried to make a small comment on where the bourgeois are on the issue of the property tax this week. The most important thing we have related to Norwegian exports is the EEA Agreement, and then I am tempted to ask: Where is the red-green government with regard to the EEA Agreement this week? Do you now agree? And the same thing about Lofoten and the Westphalia: Do you now have to agree, or do you disagree with yourself? So I think we're going to try to put these things a little bit aside. Even I'm from Sunnmaere. What characterises the business life of Sunnmaere is just private ownership. It is mainly small and medium-sized enterprises. It's family-run companies that like to start in the basement of someone who's evolved. The largest furniture industry in the country is located in this area – not because they are so well located, but because of the entrepreneurs who have run this up for generations, with the family spirit and family identity. If you look at the offshore business, we have, among other things, company Farstad Shipping. It is a family time – mainly – company located in the centre of Ålesund. It is one of the largest in supply and utility vessels related to offshore activities. It's very likely, if the family had pulled out, that these head offices -- and that part there -- would be moved. It is very important to facilitate these family-run enterprises. I just want to make a statement right away: it's incredibly good that happens in Norwegian business. Norwegian business is doing very well – it shows the Sunnmørspost today. It is shown that the oil and gas-powered part of the industry in particular is going very well. But we also know – it's a shadow side – that we've got a very two-part Norwegian economy. There are many companies in the competitive sector that are not related to oil and gas that have real problems. There is every reason to believe — and this also shows our story — that when you have family-owned businesses linked to an environment, you think about them several times before you, among other things. the closure of the holding. You try to do it for the longest time, because social responsibility lies in the backbone of these people – a social responsibility that you also have in a small community. Governments also had an upsizing of the instrument: yes, most of it has actually been unanimous in this room. The removal of the auditor's obligation for the smaller companies is something the opposition has proposed for several years before the government chose to do so. With regard to the reduction of the capital requirement, the undersigned has submitted proposals several times before this government made it. So there's no disagreement about this. But in the case of the seed funds, they're not really in place. They have been notified that they are coming, but they are not established. Another thing that I have at least called for, and that many in the business world are calling for, is the innovation power. Why can't companies themselves be guided more by research and development in their own businesses directly through the tax deduction scheme, not only through the TaxFUNN? Furthermore, where we really need instruments in the future, it is in the early seed phase, which many refer to as the pollen phase. Then you just have to use tax incentives to generate the capital that allows us to get new businesses in place. We need that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e870	No one is any better than Minister of Industry Trond Giske to read out long lists of brawls. That's probably the way it is when a government period approaches the end, that you're more concerned with drawing the image of your time in government than drawing a picture of what's going to happen. No one disagrees that very much is good both in the Norwegian economy and in the Norwegian working life. The Norwegian economy is bottom-solid. Unemployment is low, and fortunately many new businesses are created. No one disagrees. At the same time, it is also alarming that the Minister of Industry is not more concerned with the reports submitted in the last month. They show an increasingly clear division of the Norwegian economy. The fact that we are doing well in the oil and gas sector, we should be happy about it. It creates great and good ring-effects both for the supplier industry and for technology companies all over the country. At the same time, as countries, we are also dependent on other competitive businesses to avoid becoming too vulnerable to fluctuations in the oil price. I am surprised that the reports submitted in the last month, from the NHO, from the SSB and from the Norwegian industry, do not concern the Minister of Industry more than they obviously do. Among other things, we see: that the mainland industry now has the lowest investments of more than 40 years. These include: a consequence of the wear and tear of many of the enterprises. Then I will join in what the interpellant has said about the importance of ownership. The right is concerned that we should have a diverse, strong, Norwegian ownership. It means who owns the company. It means something if you meet the owner at the store, or if the owner is in London, in Copenhagen or in Stockholm. Of course, we should welcome foreign ownership, but it is important that we have diversity and that we have strong local owners. I remember the first time I was at Sunnmøre and met someone from the family businesses up there. The owner said we've been here for decades, here we're going to be in 50 years – what we're doing, I don't know, but we're going to be here. It's a local owner, a family business, who takes responsibility. Another local owner who I met in Telemark, who was in doubt that the children could afford to take over the company because of inheritance fees and property taxes, said: It is no problem to sell the company I own, but I cannot sell it to anyone in Telemark – perhaps to someone in Copenhagen or Stockholm. I think it means something that ownership is local. We are committed to strengthening private ownership, but we are also concerned with strengthening employee ownership – ensuring that more employees can become partners in their own company, building up the old enemy image between capital and work by making more employees also joint owners. Norway is one of the world’s most expensive countries to produce. That means that we should also be one of the world's smartest countries to run business from. In that context, it is quite remarkable that the Minister of Industry is not more concerned that Norway is cutting the whole spectrum in terms of both research and innovation. We need to step up research both through public funding and in enterprises, but there is a need for clearer priorities and new instruments. Finally, another issue that has been raised by many in this debate is access to capital. Although this is not the Minister of Industry's table, he should nevertheless engage in the matter. Now banks and financial corporations are facing new demands in the wake of the financial crisis. They're also the right-hand trailer of. What concerns us, however, is that red-green politicians want to move faster than our neighbours and beyond many other European countries. It will mean more expensive loans to businesses and lower capital access to businesses, at least for those so small — and most of the companies in Norway — that they cannot avail themselves of the bond market. A Minister of Industry engaged in small and medium-sized enterprises should also be concerned with the framework conditions for Norwegian banks and financial corporations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e891	That's an interesting question for the representative, Gundersen, but when it comes to the issue of ownership in business, it's a point to look at it in a slightly broader perspective. The most important thing we can do for the owners of businesses, for the owners of businesses, is to make it easier for them to do business in Norway. We have received statistics from the World Bank, and the latest statistics from 2012 show that Norway is the fifth best country to operate in, based on the parameters used by the World Bank. We're actually number. 2 in Europe. It is only Denmark that comes before us in Europe when it relates to countries in which it is easy and easy to do business. This shows that the black measurement of how difficult it is to do business in Norway, and that in many ways we put boilers in the way of those who want to do business, does not work if we see it in a slightly larger international context. So you might ask, why do many people think it's good to do business in Norway? I had a visit yesterday by a director from a large company in Norway, and he said that we have introduced a way of organizing the work because we have skilled workers. We have a flat organization, we have a lot fewer intermediaries and we have a very efficient organization. We've tried to do exactly the same in factories in other parts of the group in other countries, but we don't get it. We have a competence in Norwegian labour because we have a school system that not only teaches people a subject, but we also teach students to use the subject independently and in cooperation with others. We have a unique school system, a single school system that allows us to bring forward workers who dare to take responsibility and who can then be given responsibility. There is one example of why it is good to do business in Norway. Another example we got from one of the leaders of it maybe after every well-known network of NODEs, which organizes the offshore industry. They said that one of the reasons we're in the forefront of technology in Norway was that one was out early on with environmental requirements. Norway has been offensive to environmental requirements. One has combined it with close collaboration with public authorities and with the tools. This means that we have a business that's in front of us technologically. What many people on the right a few years ago claimed would break Norwegian business is what businesses now realize has brought business to the front. I want to say a little about the property tax. It was said by the interpellant that we should not talk about it today, but he talked about it anyway. Whatever they may mean this week, I'm not going to ask about it, but it turns out that every time Right comes up with examples of corporations that have been broken by the wealth tax, some newspaper comes a couple of days later and points out that it doesn't. The last time was the hotels that were supposed to be broken by the property tax, and in today's newspaper we can read that the Right cannot get up with a single example that it has been sold hotels because of the property tax. It's a rhetoric that makes me think that the Right is becoming a danger to Norwegian business, because they're overfocusing on the wealth tax in relation to the things that are actually important for us to have a viable business life in Norway. I want to say a few things about access to capital. I agree with those who think it's a challenge in Norway today. There is so much greater return on investment in oil-related enterprises than in other enterprises that there is a long-term challenge for Norwegian business. The problem is that no one points to what we're going to do with it. The only thing that really will work is to reduce oil speed. Finally, I want to say that I am for a lack of ownership. One form of ownership that has not been mentioned here today, but which SV is occupied by, are the companies, the limited companies, which are wholly owned by them, such as. Kantega. We have absolutely a need to further develop the legislation so that that type of company can build up its own capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e906	The interpellant brings up a theme on which the Left is very concerned. As politicians, how can we facilitate a diverse, scattered, private ownership of Norwegian business? Unfortunately, it is an area that has been neglected by the government in recent years. It has been far more concerned with strengthening state ownership in a number of areas, at the expense of private and local ownership. This has been achieved through tax changes, through changes in public tools and through large but not particularly profitable investments in the billions class, such as: the famous entry into Aker. The left will have a different policy and fully agrees with the inter-pellant that multiple private ownership is important for the distribution of power, and to ensure that development is spread throughout the country. Fortunately, it is a vision shared by all the opposition parties, and an area in which we will have little difficulty in agreeing to pursue a new and more forward-looking policy when it becomes a new majority after the autumn elections. The private ownership of Norwegian enterprises is the very bearer of value creation in Norway. Over 80 pst. of all farms in Norway, a Norwegian person is the largest owner, and nearly 200,000 people are currently the principal owners of a holding. The Minister of Economic Affairs called for the taxes on wealth. Property taxes play a major role in the private, diverse ownership of Norwegian business – in a negative direction. Unfortunately, the changes made by the government to the property tax have resulted in a smaller interest for Norwegian owners and investors to invest in Norwegian business versus foreign business or other investment objects. 21000 business owners pay a property tax higher than the total annual profit of the enterprises. 1.5 pst. in order to pay the property tax, the personal owners have to pay their companies. The property tax is a private tax and is paid by the owners, regardless of the economic condition of the company. In the last country report on Norway, the OECD also clearly expresses criticism of the Norwegian wealth tax scheme. One points out that this tax involves very high effective rates of taxation on savings, and that this may hamper economic growth. The tax on wealth — or rather the reduction in, or withdrawal of, taxes on wealth — is important for the private, diverse and local ownership of Norwegian businesses. However, there are a number of other measures that the Left will point to and implement from the autumn onwards, which will help to strengthen private ownership: The left will have better relationships for self-employed people. Very many company owners start up as a self-employed person with an idea that slowly, but surely grows into a company with several employees. Therefore, it is important to facilitate conditions so that more people can test an idea and follow their dreams. The left will make the start-up phase easier for new businesses. Many companies and company owners are working hard to hire employees in a start-up phase. Therefore, the Left will remove the employer’s fee for the first three years for start-ups with less than five employees. The left will have increased capital availability. The availability of risk capital is crucial to the establishment and success of many businesses in the critical phase from idea to shop. The left wants to strengthen the capital input, especially to the smallest enterprises in the most critical phase. Therefore, the Left will introduce a so-called CapitalFUNN scheme that provides tax incentives for private owners committed to long-term investment in start-ups. The left will have a modern and targeted tool. Public sector instruments need to be more focused on being a private owner supporter rather than on entering into the role of owner rather than private owner. An example of faulty public tools is when Investinor joins some of Norway’s rich investors to raid Alpine sites in the East. Then we get a semi-public and centralised ownership instead of the local private ownership. The left will have a tax system that stimulates private ownership in Norwegian jobs. In addition to changes in property taxes and the establishment of a Capital FUNN scheme, the Left will use the tax system to stimulate private ownership by abolishing the inheritance tax and increasing the tax deduction for the purchase and sale of shares in its own company. In addition, general instruments such as simplification and a cautious and sensible tightening of public ownership are good measures to strengthen precisely what the inter-pellanter refers to. If we do this, we will stimulate – as the Left sees it – a diverse, private, dispersed and local ownership of Norwegian enterprises and jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e939	The last speaker said, I think gives a very good impression of the debate. It is that in this area it will be very easy to be able to conduct a new and much more forward-looking policy. The debate has first and foremost made it clear that there are clear differences in this area. I think both Heggøs and Holmelid's posts were marked by the fact that you really don't want to discuss what it's all about, at all. That's why I don't want to spend a lot of time answering that, except that the debate on Statskog is, of course, a debate itself. If you've been in local media where the Statskog purchase took place, they're not so much overwhelming when it comes to getting a large state owner of forest resources in Hedmark. It means quite a lot to the administration in relation to having a diverse, private ownership that manages it. But it's a completely different discussion. I think both Nesvik, Sanner and Tende took a lot of the general interest in the articles of the Council of State. I'm not going to repeat it, but the capital input, as Mr. Sanner was about, I think it's quite critical, because there's a lot going on on the regulatory side that's going to make equity much more important in companies. I think we can fear some headlines in particular about traditional business, which were the starting point, and which don't have the huge oil injection. We all agree that Norway is doing well. We have a lot to be satisfied with, and there are a lot of measures we've agreed on. But the point was to look a little bit ahead, and then we're back at the property tax. I note that there is a difference. It's a distribution tax for the red-greens, although it's not very accurate – we know it's not accurate. I dare say that if you just focus on wealth taxes, you hit a lot of others. For it cannot be debated, as Holmelid does, that the property tax is a peculiar tax on Norwegian jobs owned by the Nordics and residing in Norway. It is primarily the local ownership, where one does not have alternative ownership, that is affected by it. And it's in District Norway. You don't make many of them stand out, because they don't want us to feel sorry for them. They want first of all to have the same opportunities to develop an enterprise as a foreign owner. There are a lot of examples of enterprises that want the same opportunities as foreign owners. There is a tax on jobs that does not have access to that ownership. I think, as Sanner said, it also means something where ownership sits. We are not afraid of foreign owners, but what is a fact is that then you are much more exposed to the general framework conditions and the general considerations of competitiveness. We need a diversity in Norwegian business. Today, it's the private, diverse ownership that's the weakest part of it. It shows all the statistics.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e953	The interpellant has provided the basis for an hour’s debate in the main hall on an important topic. It is important that we have good owners, it is important that we have Norwegian owners, and it is important that we have long-term owners, who can help build up under owners who have a long-term industrial building agenda and not the short-term speculation economy. We should discuss that and exchange ideas on it. But I notice that when it comes to the seventh and last steps, there is one measure on the right and the Progress Party is committed to, and that is the wealth tax. That's what you want to discuss, that's what you want to remove. So you might have to invite the Minister of Finance anyway, because in the area for which the Ministry of Industry is responsible, I think the list is very long over measures that facilitate good private ownership. I think it was Sanner who said about me that no one is any better to list up long scraps. I think it's also the case that no one has any longer to list up from, because the figures in the Norwegian economy and the Norwegian business community are so formidablely good. It is easier to stand here and talk about over 300,000 new jobs in Norway under our government than it was for then Minister of Economic Affairs Børge Brende to talk about 11,000 new jobs in the spring of 2005. I could talk about both Rogaland, Hordaland, Akershus, Oslo and close to it too, I think, More and Romesdal, who have an equally strong – or stronger – employment growth than the whole of Norway had during the four years of bourgeois government. It must at least indicate that the situation of owners, investors, business managers, workers, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs in Norway is to live with and provides the basis for strong growth in Norwegian business in the middle of a European crisis. But it shouldn't prevent us from constantly discussing how things can be done even better, how we can put together both tax systems and other things to facilitate value creation. We do so continuously — with pension reform and many other measures that help ensure that the Norwegian economy is as efficient as possible. I am also among those who believe that there should have been a smoother taxation of various assets, but what the Right Party and the Advance Party have always stood for, namely the removal of the taxes on wealth, will give totally unsustainable distribution effects. But if the point of view of the week is to remove it, at least we've clarified it again. Then we're going to talk about Innovation Norway, we're going to talk about the Research Council, we're going to talk about all the measures we're going to take to improve innovation and productivity, because at the end of the day it's our ability to create products and services in an efficient and profitable way that also determines whether capital is attracted to businesses, and whether owners can continue to invest in Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e966	Case No. So 7 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e980	I am pleased to present the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee on the approval of the decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion of the four regulations on wine in the EEA Agreement. This matter concerns the establishment of a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products and specific provisions for certain agricultural products. It introduces detailed rules on compulsory declarations, information for monitoring the wine market, accompanying documents for the dispatch of wine products and rules on registers. This applies only to wine products, organic practices and current restrictions on protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications, labelling and presentation of wine products. Through this procedure, Stortingen agrees that we give authority to the International Organisation of Vine and Wine, OIV, in relation to permitted methods of analysis and purity and identification criteria for substances used in certain organic methods. Wine is considered to be an agricultural product in the EU. Therefore, the wine legislation is governed by Articles 36 and 37 of the EC Treaty, on the common agricultural policy of the European Union. Revision work in the wine sector in the EU must therefore be seen in the context of the overall process of simplification of the whole EU agricultural policy, which has been in progress since 2005. A single market organisation is one of the main elements of simplification processes. What does this really have to do with Norway? Norway does not have its own wine and grape production of importance. There is one establishment in Norway that blends and drains wine in bottles and cartons. Otherwise only prepacked wine is admitted to Norway. For these activities, it is particularly important that the provisions of EU legislation relating to the activities they carry out and the products they place on the market are made part of Protocol 47 to the EEA Agreement. Similarly, the other establishments trading in prepacked wine in Norway also apply. I point out that both the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are in favour of this approval. The Foreign Affairs Committee has also supported this position. Then it is appropriate to call in for a party here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e997	At least we should call voting, because several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e1003	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e1011	During the debate Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «Agreements to the law amending the law on the right of access to documents in the public sector I The law on the right of access to documents in the public sector is amended as follows: [[public law]] [[public law]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e1057	During the debate Per Sandberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Agreements to the Act amending the Dog Farming Act
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e1100	During the debate, Robert Erikssson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose possible arrangements for compensating lost labour income for volunteers who are called upon by the authorities to participate in voluntary rescue work.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e1123	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e1194	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e1204	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-02-07.ana.ud1005e1232	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
