ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-01.ana.ud112e2364	If no one has anything to object to, I will comply with the request.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-01.ana.ud112e2374	Since none of the secretaries from the previous big business are present, the president will ask the representative Jette F. Christensen to act as a secretary temporarily until the Stortinget is constituted. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 27 September 2013: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 27 September 2013 at 2.30 p.m. 11.00 has been decided: State Secretary Tone-Helen Toften shall be given, on application, by way of derogation from the office of State Secretary of Council Rigmor Aasrud with effect from 1 October 2013. State Secretary Geir Pollestad shall, upon application, be dismissed from office as Secretary of State of Marit Arnstad with effect from 1 October 2013. State Secretary Kjersti Stenseng shall be granted, on application, by way of derogation from the office of State Secretary of the Council of State of Hadia Tajik with effect from 1 October 2013.’ The President proposed that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. Name calls will be made by the representatives. The President notes that the first representative of each electoral district will deliver the mandate of the National Election Board to the President as they are called up. A roll call was then made by the representatives. The following representatives were absent: 4. Representative of Akershus County, Sylvi Graham, 4th Representative of the Buskerud County, Lise Christoffersen, 5th Representative of the Buskerud County, Anders B. Werp, 3rd Representative of the Finnmark County, Kåre Simensen, 5th Representative of the Finnmark County, Kirsti Bergstø, 7th Representative of the Hedmark County, Karin Andersen, 7th Representative of the Nordland County, Jan Arild Ellingsen, 16th Representative of the Oslo, Vegard Grøslie Wennesland, 3rd Representative of the Sogn and Fjordane County, Bjørn Lødemel, 2nd Representative of the Telemark County, Torbjørn Røe Isaacsen, 4th Representative of the Telemark County, Lene Vågslid, 6th Representative of the Troms County, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes, and 2nd Representative of the Eastfold County, Ingern Skou. The representatives of Sylvi Graham, Lise Christoffersen, Vegard Grøslie Wennesland, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Torgeir Knag Fylkesnes and Ingerd Schou had fallen due. From the other seven permit applications were available [[see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-01.ana.ud112e2405	The President will then propose that the last Rules of Procedure, as amended by the Stortinget on 16 May 2013, be put into effect. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. A number of permit applications are available: – from representatives Karin Andersen, Jan Arild Ellingsen, Bjørn Lødemel, Kåre Simensen, Lene Vågslid and Anders B. Werp on leave from 1 October to 18 October – all to attend the 68th ordinary General Assembly of the United Nations in New York – from the representative Kirsti Bergstø on parental leave from 1 October to the end of the spring session, Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the Nordland County, Dagfinn Henrik Olsen, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget, under the authority of the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen, because of illness. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the period of leave as follows: For Buskerud counties: Christopher Wand 1.–14. October For Finnmark County: Ingarill Olsen 1–14. October and Johnny Ingebrichtsen 1 October and the spring session For the county of Hedmark: Bersvend Salbu 1-14. October For the Nordic counties: Greta Johanne Solfall 1–14. October For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Bjørn Erik Hollevik 1–14. October For Telemark County: Lise Wiik 1–14. October – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Christopher Wand, Ingarill Olsen, Johnny Ingebrichtsen, Greta Johanne Solfall, Bersvend Salbu, Bjørn Erik Hollevik and Lise Wiik are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-01.ana.ud112e2495	The Powers Committee shall then be chosen. The proposed members of the Powers Committee have been appointed by the Groups and the proposal has been distributed to the members of their seats in the Chamber. If no one has anything to object to, it is normal to vote for it. In case of divergent proposals, written voting is used. The issued proposal will then be used as a ballot. – No objections have been raised to this procedure and the proposed procedure will be followed. As members of the Committee of Plenipotentiaries, the following were unanimously elected: Anders Anundsen [[Sp]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-10-01.ana.ud112e2515	The President will request the newly elected members of the Committee of Plenipotentiaries to meet immediately after the termination of this meeting. The meeting of the Committee will be held at the S-407 meeting. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
