ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e95	I would like to thank you for the opportunity to review the situation in the Sahel region. In many parts of Africa, developments have been positive in recent years. In many countries, democratic institutions and systems of governance are strengthened. There is clear progress in health and education, and a number of African countries are experiencing significant economic growth. The African Union, AU, plays a more important role than just a few years ago. It concerns the management of crises and conflicts by the organisation, as well as the promotion of democratic principles and economic and political integration. The number of conflicts in Africa has decreased. The population in more than 90 pst. Since 2000, African countries have been able to live in peace. We have every reason to enjoy these developments, which are particularly prominent in sub-Saharan Africa. At the same time, there are areas where development is clearly negative. In North Africa, a number of countries undergo major upheavals following the so-called Arab Spring. Between North Africa and sub-Saharan Africa, the Sahel region is located – which forms the Belt around the Sahara Desert and includes Senegal, Mauritania, Mali, Burkina Faso, Niger, Nigeria, Chad, Sudan, Ethiopia, Eritrea, Djibouti and Somalia. The region is characterised by tensions, frequent food crises and weaker economic and social development than elsewhere on the African continent. The problems have increased sharply in recent years, to some extent as a result of the upheavals further north. Criminal networks are strengthened, particularly in drug traffic. Various rebel groups are becoming increasingly active. All of this happens in a region where the boundaries between land and people are drawn in sand. This regional perspective we have to bring with us when we start our engagement in Mali. Because although Mali appears to be the epicenter of the ongoing conflict, it is impossible to see it isolated from the challenges and tensions of the region around it. In Libya, the situation is inconclusive. Rebellion groups continue to operate from areas south of the country, outside the control of Libyan authorities. In Tunisia, the emergence of fundamentalist forces gives cause for concern. In Algeria we ourselves were hit by the dramatic terrorist attack in In Amenas. In Niger, Mali's neighbouring country, there have been several attacks over the past few weeks that give cause for concern and fear of spreading the conflict. Far south, in Nigeria, the militant group Boko Haram is under constant attack, which has led to state of emergency in the three northern provinces. Throughout the Sahel region, networks that sympathise with Al Qaida have gained stronger footholds – and this in a region with weak, almost dissolved, or simply non-existent, state structures and porous borders. In addition, the unresolved conflict over Western Sahara and the instability in Sahel create increasing frustration and vulnerability among young people in the refugee camps in Algeria. The UN Secretary-General has recently expressed concern about this. Norway supported an extension of the mandate to the UN operation MINURSO, the United Nations Mission for the referendum in Western Sahara, to include human rights surveillance during the next term of office, but unfortunately this did not work. We support the UN's work on a negotiated solution to the conflict, and we believe that the international community must stand united in its pressure on the parties to achieve a political solution. It is throughout this regional political landscape that the conflict in Mali must be resolved – and understood. I have explained on various occasions some of the main features of the conflict, such as: in the foreign policy statement of 12 February of this year. Let me underline some main features: what seemed to be a functioning democracy in Mali collapsed after the military coup in March 2012. The coup was the result of several rebel movements — with very different objectives — taking control of northern parts of the country. Mali had for a long time had regional tensions and had not had sufficient inclusion of the population in the north. Now the authorities of the capital city of Bamako faced threats of liberation and the establishment of a fundamentalist, Islamic regime. The decisive turning point came when the French forces intervened on 11 January this year. They stopped the advance of the rebels southward and then released most of the territory that the rebels controlled. The intervention received broad political support, both in Mali and in the international community. France also received good military support from African forces, primarily from Chad. Strengths from other African countries were deployed in the framework of an African operation, AFISMA, which stands for African-led International Support Mission to Mali. However, AU and the West African cooperation organisation ECOWAS made it rapidly clear that AFISMA would need support from the international community. On 25 April this year, the UN Security Council unanimously decided to establish a UN operation – MINUSMA – with a robust Chapter VII mandate. MINUSMA stands for United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in Mali. The recently published report on Mali from the UN Secretary-General to the Security Council facilitates the so-called ‘rehating’ of MINUSMA, i.e. the start of operations, to take place on 1 July, as planned. This UN exposure will make it possible to secure both funding and key military components, which AFISMA did not have at its disposal. According to the Security Council Decision, the United Nations may use all necessary means to protect civilians and support the Malian authorities in the following areas: Stabilising the situation — especially in the north, the state administration facilitates humanitarian action to protect cultural memories of criminal prosecution of war crimes and crimes against humanity. In other words, the term of office is broad. It covers far more than safety-related tasks, including policy missions to support the holding of elections and the strengthening of the human rights situation. The government prioritises Norway's support for and participation in UN peace operations. For too long, Western countries have left the main weight of this responsibility to countries from Asia, Latin America and Africa, to concentrate themselves on missions in Afghanistan and Iraq. However, this trend appears to be turning around. Several European countries are now showing an interest in participating in operations such as MINUSMA. When we received the request from the United Nations to participate in MINUSMA, we answered this positively. Through our participation, we seek to bring the conflict in Mali to a better footing. If this succeeds, we will at the same time contribute to increased stability in a vulnerable region. Norway will participate with highly relevant military capabilities, which are strongly sought and where Norway has the required competence. The Minister of Defence will discuss these contributions in more detail. We have also informed the UN that we can offer police advisers, if such a contribution is desirable, and we have personnel with the necessary qualifications. The government is concerned that MINUSMA, as well as Mali's own forces, act in a way that creates confidence in the population. This also involves countering retaliation and other abuses, including sexualised violence. The international effort is a necessary contribution to creating room for an inclusive political process. But the will of Mali's own actors to meet the challenges that caused the conflict is crucial. Mali's interim government must implement its policy roadmap, hold elections quickly and set up a new government. It must have legitimacy in all parts of the country. This is something we underline in our dialogue with the Malian authorities. I met Mali's foreign minister a short time ago and talked about this. In order to ensure lasting stability, an inclusive reconciliation process must be initiated. There is a need for concrete reconciliation processes with some insurgent movements and a much wider national dialogue, including all ethnic groups. In this process, women must also have their rightful place, in accordance with the requirements of UNSCR 1325. A separate Commission for Reconciliation has now been established, and the first contacts between the Government of Mali and the Tuareg-dominated Revolutionary Movement have taken place. The legitimate needs of the population must be met, especially in the north. At the same time, it is important to prevent a situation that could lead to fragmentation of the country. This could have dangerous consequences even beyond the borders of the country. This applies to both Mali and neighbouring Niger, which are particularly vulnerable. Norway wants to expand its efforts in both countries through assistance to strengthen its institutions, stimulate its development, thus reducing the risk of the spread of open conflict across the region. We will therefore also strengthen political contact with other countries in the region – in particular Algeria, Morocco and Libya in North Africa and Nigeria and Ghana in West Africa. The objective is twofold: to further develop bilateral relations and to make an ongoing assessment of developments and what contribution Norway can make at any time. Better border control is one central and extremely difficult challenge. I would like to stress the importance of our contribution to strengthening the African institutions – in particular the African Union. I stressed this at the AU Summit three weeks ago that it was 50 years since the organisation's predecessor OAU, the Organization for African Unity, was established. AU will be an important player in Mali, together with the UN and ECOWAS. Taking a decision to participate in an international operation is an important decision. It is also a demanding decision. We must be clear: why should Norway contribute in Mali? What would have been the consequences of the passive behaviour of international society? That's, as I see it, five reasons for the Norwegian contribution. Firstly, it concerns key objectives of Norwegian development policy — combating poverty and developing democratic governance. Secondly, if we lose the fight against drug traffic and other organised crime in this region, European countries in particular will note the effects. Thirdly, a sustained and intensified turmoil in the region will increase the pressure of people looking northward looking for a better future. Fourth, economic exposure in the region will become more vulnerable if terrorist movements are given additional footholds. Finally, we must prevent the destabilization of the whole region. This regional perspective is therefore the starting point for a broad Norwegian involvement in Mali.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e174	The UN Security Council considers the situation in Mali to be a threat to international peace and security. On this basis, the Security Council adopted Resolution 2100 on 25 April, including: Grants mandate to establish a United Nations operation in Mali, the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilisation Mission in Mali, MINUSMA. On 6 May 2013, Norway received a formal request from the United Nations to participate in the operation. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already explained, MINUSMA will be a multidimensional integrated stabilisation operation with a robust Chapter VII mandate. A Chapter VII mandate means that the force is authorised to use all means, limited by the strength’s capabilities and geographical location, to fulfil the tasks assigned to it by the Security Council in its resolution. This implies that the strength has the right to engage in combat actions if the leadership of the mission considers it necessary to fulfil the mandate. On 25 April, MINUSMA assumed responsibility for the tasks that were up until then carried out by the United Nations political office in Mali. It is planned that the UN will assume responsibility for the stabilisation operation of the African-led AFISMA team on 1 July this year. This will be the United Nations' third largest peace operation, and it will consist of up to 11,200 soldiers and 1,440 policemen, including 320 individual police advisers and civilian personnel. Large parts of the AFISMA force are to be transferred to MINUSMA, which will in addition consist of forces from other African countries, several Asian countries and some European countries. It is important for both the legitimacy of the operation and the operational capacity of Western countries to provide the specialised capacities of the United Nations. Such capacities are a prerequisite for the success of the operation in fulfilling its mandate. On the military side, we offer the UN up to five staff officers and up to 15 people to an information and analysis unit. Both contributions are linked and co-located with the operating headquarters in Bamako. The UN has specifically requested this type of special capabilities in order to operate effectively. Such a Norwegian contribution could be very important in order to solve the task. Norwegian personnel will be recruited from various departments of Defence, based on volunteering and competence. The staff of the information and analysis unit will be in place as the unit is set up, around the turn of the month of August/September. The Norwegian staff officers could be in place earlier. It will be essential for the MINUSMA’s ability to implement the mandate that the operational management has good situational understanding and capacity to make timely and relevant assessments of the safety situation. The Norwegian unit of analysis will be part of the ‘All Sources Information Fusion Unit’, where relevant information is compiled and processed in order to enhance the ability of the operation to protect civilians and to reduce the risk to its own personnel. The Norwegian contribution will also meet the United Nations’ demand for highly qualified professional personnel. Governments in Sweden and Germany have decided to send transport aircraft to MINUSMA – Sweden also wants to offer staff officers. France will also assign staff to MINUSMA. The government is also aware that some other European countries are in dialogue with the UN on concrete contributions to MINUSMA. Nordic cooperation on military contributions is desirable, which will also support the ambition for joint Nordic contributions in UN operations. We have had good dialogue with all the Nordic countries in this process. We will continue planning with a view to finding Nordic solutions for deployment, supply and coordination of efforts. The mandate of MINUSMA has been given for 12 months. However, it is clear that the United Nations sees a long-term involvement in Mali. The Norwegian contribution is planned for a period of 12 months. Due to its complexity and the number of actors, the concept of operation for MINUSMA places great emphasis on good coordination and close cooperation with the other ongoing operations in Mali, and between MINUSMA and the United Nations operations in Liberia and Côte d’Ivoire. MINUSMA must also establish military liaison functions with the Malian army. There is also a strong emphasis on civil-military cooperation with regard to an overall approach to information collection, monitoring, verification and early warning. I would like to stress that the concept of operation is still under preparation and that changes may be made towards final approval. It is expected that the operating concept will be approved within a few weeks. As a rule, a Special Representative has been appointed as Head of the Mission, who, on behalf of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, is responsible for the implementation of the mandate and is the Chief Executive Officer of the civil and military components of the mission. On the military side, the operation is managed by a Force Commander who reports to the Special Representative and exercises operational control over all military personnel belonging to MINUSMA. Norwegian personnel involved in the operation will be assigned to MINUSMA and under the command of the Force Commander. A Norwegian officer will be appointed as senior Norwegian representative and he will maintain contact and reporting to the Defence at home. The Senio representative will have the necessary powers to contribute to the security of the Norwegian personnel in the operation. The French forces in Mali will not be part of MINUSMA but will continue their anti-terrorism operations on the basis of a bilateral agreement with the Malian authorities. The presence and capacity of the French forces are a prerequisite for the MINUSMA to carry out its tasks at an initial stage. Dropping down of the French operation is in progress. Many suggest that 2,000 French soldiers remain in Mali until further notice. Security Council Resolution 2100 mandates the French forces in Mali to intervene in the event of imminent serious threats from MINUSMA personnel. To this end, France will also be able to make use of other French forces and military capabilities in the region if the situation so requires. France also aims to provide staff with central posts at the MINUSMA headquarters in order to contribute to good coordination and clear responsibilities between the two operations. Negotiations are currently under way between the United Nations and France on an agreement to regulate division of labour and coordination between MINUSMA and French forces. The MINUSMA will also cooperate with the EU Training Mission, EUTM, which will continue to support Mali defence and security forces with training and advice. Finally, I would like to stress that the security situation in Mali will be demanding, especially in the form of so-called asymmetric threats. However, there are signs of improvement in the last months following the intervention and deployment of AFISMA and the EU training mission by the French team. The rebel groups are weakened and the Malaysian authorities have restored control of most of the territory. There are currently no indications that actors in Mali have specific intentions to target Norwegian interests. However, the assessment is that this could change in a Norwegian military deployment. We attach great importance to ensuring the safety of Norwegian personnel in a satisfactory manner. Adequate strength protection, sanitation and medical evacuation are important in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e204	As the Minister for Foreign Affairs was involved in his speech, the Sahel region has had for many years unbridled borders, a lot of drug and human trafficking, poverty and food crises that are reinforced by climate change. In addition, the struggle for resources and rights has created conflicts between population groups in several countries. In both Mali and Niger, we have seen the uprisings of parts of the Tuareg people. In this unstable region, marked by political unrest and constant military coup, Mali was able to show 20 years of good democratic and economic development. Elections were held regularly and – not least – peacefully. Poverty was reduced, and the country was able to limit the damage caused by droughts. But despite this good development, Mali was still vulnerable. Climate change makes food crises more frequent than before. Increasing instability in border areas against North Africa and increasing internal corruption in Mali also undermined positive developments. The board turned out to be too weak. The sitting board is a transitional government, but the captains still have a lot of influence. The transitional government lacks popular legitimacy and has not yet shown sufficient power of action. The crisis in Mali is primarily a political crisis. It requires policy solutions. As the northern areas of the country become more stable, it is important that the transitional government is replaced as soon as possible by legitimate elected authorities. Presidential elections will be held in six weeks, on 28 July. The choice must be as inclusive as possible in order for the newly elected President and Government to have the greatest possible legitimacy and popular support. Moreover, a high turnout will be good and important for the further reconciliation that must take place. Norway places great emphasis on supporting the policy process. That's why we've allocated 40 million. kr to the United Nations Election Fund for the election process in Mali. Tuaregen and other peoples in the north have been marginalised and oppressed for many years. Now they must be included in a broad political process. Their rights and requirements must be treated seriously. This will be a main task for a elected president and a new government. Mali’s transitional administration has established a Commission for Dialogue and Reconciliation with a view to initiating a dialogue. At the same time, Mali's new elected government must ensure better governance of the state apparatus. Authorities must ensure that the army is under civil control, strengthen democratic institutions and the rule of law and fight corruption. Crimes committed during the conflict must be prosecuted. These major challenges require support and assistance from the international community. The UN Special Representative will play an important role here. Then the new government must start the great, heavy work on reconstruction and the resumption of basic services for the population in the conflict-affected areas. Health and education institutions are in ruins, as are water supplies following the destruction of the rebels. The economy is badly weakened. There is a great deal of international attention around the crisis and the conflict in northern Mali. But for millions of people throughout Mali, the main concern will continue to be the food crises, which are coming more and more frequently, chronic malnutrition and diseases such as malaria. In addition, poverty and lack of health and education, especially for girls and women, are emerging. The situation in Mali is discouraging. The problems are huge. Mali needs all possible assistance and support from the entire international community, including from Norway. Norway has been involved in Mali since the 1980s through non-governmental organisations such as the Church's Emergency Aid Foundation, the Power Foundation, CARE and the Dry Land Coordination Group. Their efforts, mainly in the north, have been of great value to the population of Mali. The Church’s emergency aid was central to the peace process that ended the ‘tuareg uprising’ in the mid-1990s. We will continue to work through these good forces. Together with other donors, Norway is frozen for development cooperation with the authorities of Mali following the military coup in March last year. Now we're gradually resuming this cooperation. In the first instance, two food safety programmes are applicable in areas particularly exposed to drought. Together with the UN and other donors, we will also consider other measures to strengthen the governance and development of democracy. We will continue to work especially with women's rights and participation in development cooperation in Mali. We need to do our part to help women participate in the forthcoming political processes and the forthcoming peacekeeping operation. I attended the International Donors Conference for Mali on 15 May. It promised the world community nearly 25 billion. kr in assistance to Mali for the next two years. This is a clear expression of international solidarity with Mali and recognition of its importance for stability and security throughout the Sahel region. Norway's contribution is 80 million. kr in development aid. This is in addition to the 40 million. NOK which I mentioned earlier in support of the electoral process, and SEK 104 million. D allocated to now this year for humanitarian aid for the whole of the Sahel region, with emphasis on Mali. At the same time, the donors made it clear at the conference that we are not now back to ‘business as usual’. The choices are important, but they will not solve the problems alone. The donors therefore make clear demands for the future president and government on political reforms, better governance and a strengthened effort for peace and reconciliation in northern Mali. We will follow this carefully in the time to come. In particular, real progress in the reconciliation process is important, which has been too short. Here the sitting government has a great responsibility, and so will a new elected government. Real reconciliation is needed for more than 400,000 refugees and internally displaced persons to dare to return to their own homes. The crisis in Mali is a symptom of the deeper problems facing the entire Sahel region and the rest of West Africa. There are many weak states ruled by coupmakers, and democracy is weak. In such a landscape, it is important that we support just democratic forces that can facilitate the development and stability of the population. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs explained, the development of the countries throughout this region is linked. Countries affect each other. So we have to look beyond Mali. Niger is the world's least developed country, according to the UN Human Development Index. It has a population growth that is among the highest in the world and is hit by ever worse droughts. About 15 pst. by the population, almost 40 pst. by the children, are at all times undernourished. Three weeks ago, the terrorist attacks were the first of this kind in the country's history and underline how vulnerable Niger is to the threats of terrorist groups based in other countries in the area. But Niger' elected leaders have visions for development and democracy. In close cooperation with the international community, they have set a course out of poverty. A positive development here will have positive ring-effects in the region. Norway must contribute to this. So we're going to spend about 52 million. kr i Niger this year through the UN and non-governmental organisations. Most of the time, food production has to be strengthened and the population has to be more resilient to growing periods of drought. We strengthen our presence in Niger, and in addition, we are now considering other opportunities to support the authorities in the governance, health and education of girls. Finally, I would like to say that I wholeheartedly support the fact that Norway is now contributing to a peacekeeping force in the United Nations regime in Africa. Norwegian soldiers in blue helmets show that we are willing to take responsibility for international peace and security on behalf of the entire world community. Our commitment to Sahel must be long-term. It will take time to see results. But we have to remember that we will quickly see negative consequences if we don't act.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e257	The President, in consultation with the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, will propose the following arrangements for the debate: It is based on Article 43(a) of the Storting Rules of Procedure, which deals with a statement by a member of the Government, but the provision of the first sentence of the second subparagraph is waived by the following arrangement of the debate: The debate is limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and speaking time is allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no loopholes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e270	From the Right, we very much appreciate that the government chooses to explain as thoroughly as it does now about the developments in Sahel and the background and circumstances of the government's decision to participate with a strong contribution to the UN MINUSMA operation. There is no doubt that the situation in Sahel is demanding along a number of parameters. It is linked to security issues, enormous poverty and lack of development, ethnic and religious tensions and almost chronic political instability. However, the region has in many ways been a blind spot for international attention, while the situation has gradually become worse and hostile forces in the form of militant Islamist extremism, smugglers and insurgents have created an explosive mix in what has almost evolved into a zone of freedom. The extremists have been present in the area for a long time, but it is only in recent years that they have been able to establish bases, especially north of Mali. History has shown us what can happen if such a development goes on for too long. With porous borders and weak state powers without real control over huge geographical areas, the potential for spread of any conflict is also very great. Game over from the civil war in Libya struck with full force in Mali and further into Niger. To a large extent, it has been using the vacuum following the fall of the Gaddafi regime in Libya that the extremists have acquired weapons, the rebels have spread in the region, and they have been able to establish the bases. The long-term conflict in Algeria is just another example of how national conflicts contribute to regional dynamism, where a complex set of actors seek to combat each other by all means. The international community needs to address the situation with a wide range of instruments to prevent further deterioration. The humanitarian situation is precarious, large crowds are on the run, and the state power lacks both the ability and legitimacy to govern its own country. I am also pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs so clearly announced that the role of women and the emphasis on Security Council Resolution 1325 will be important. Without the participation of women on equal terms, as equivalent partners in peace, reconciliation and reconstruction, there will be no lasting development. I see the government's decision to contribute to the MINUSMA operation as right and important. We will send five staff officers, 10–15 analysts and information personnel and up to five police officers. The mission shall be limited to 12 months and there has also been an important point in the discussions of the Stortinget. At the same time, we should have no illusions that this UN force is a sort of quick fix for Mali or for the wider region. As we all have now been in, there are too many and too many challenges to it. The international exposure must in all likelihood be long-term and the military operation is only one element in a comprehensive effort. Nor shall we have any illusions that this military contribution, although limited in scope, will not be demanding for the Defense and for the Staff. The contribution means an additional burden on an organisation that already contributes heavily to international operations. Our contribution in Afghanistan is still significant. It is a fact that unfortunately too often disappears in the public debate. Participation in Ocean Shield with the frigate KNM ‘Fridtjof Nansen’ is another important and resource-intensive effort. In this context, it is also worth noting that the contribution to MINUSMA is to be financed under the defence budget, and that the government is thus continuing to use the funds as under the economic planning conditions of Prop. 73 S was to be returned to the Defence's other organisation in line with the escalation in Afghanistan. There are also underlying and more structural challenges associated with the United Nations-led operation Norway is now to participate in. In MINUSMA, with main contributors from African countries and connected to AU military headquarters, there is also a risk of this in this case. The Nordic aspect is therefore of particular importance. Close coordination and cooperation are needed between the contributions of the Nordic countries, and the Swedish send, as the Minister of Defence pointed out, a substantial contribution, the Danish have contributed to the assessment, and both countries also participate in the EU training mission. The complexity of the conflict and the political power conditions on the ground further reinforce the challenges. Today's government came to power by a coup, and has no democratic legitimacy or legality, although initially this government has invited the international forces in. It is hoped that the planned elections in July will lead to a democratically elected government, but there is no guarantee that it will be a constructive and stable partner of the UN in the further engagement. There is also a great deal of concern in one of the provinces of Mali, namely Kidal, which is now trying to solve before the elections take place. In parallel with MINUSMA, France will continue its own military operation until further notice. Coordination of the two operations will be crucial, but also difficult. It is a wish expressed by Stortinget that a clarification of the role distribution between the two should be put in place soon and before the operation begins on 1 July. The transition from AFISMA to MINUSMA is also challenging in terms of both the mandate given by the Security Council, exposure rules, tasks and operating languages. We can meet challenges that are unfamiliar to both our forces and other forces, and it's of course crucial to clarify with the Mali authorities what contractual work is available, and what engagement rules apply to military personnel and police respectively. Given the image we're facing, it's very important. According to the Minister of Defence, the concept of operation will only be clear in a few weeks' time. So it's going to be crucial that coordination between MINUSMA and the French force, in particular, is in place. The Minister of Defence said that the presence and capacity of the French forces are a prerequisite for MINUSMA and, in particular, if something should happen and there is a need for protection. That's why it's all the more important that the ratio between them is clarified. There are still many uncertainties, and there are many things that we do not yet know, which can be the basis for success or failure, and also for participation of Norwegian forces. I think it's quite obvious that this is going to be a difficult and complex operation, it could be long-term, and the Norwegian contribution is limited to one year. If it would be appropriate to extend it or give other capacities, the government would normally have to come back to the Storting and consult about it. I also think it is important to stress that the military contribution is only part of a larger effort, an overall effort, where not only Norway but also other countries contribute, and there are many different fields to be contributed. In conclusion, I noted in Mr. Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås’ statement that he said that SV wholeheartedly supports this – I am also pleased – and that Norwegian soldiers in the blue helmet who take responsibility for international peace and security are good. I fully agree with that. But Norwegian soldiers take responsibility for international peace and security also with different colours on their helmets. We've been doing that for years, and we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e310	The next speaker is Svein Roald Hansen, who has a speaking time of up to 10 minutes. The President deems it appropriate to inform him that he has been informed that the other speaking time of the Workers' Party is allocated to the two Councils and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, if there is a need to comment and answer at the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e315	Norway has a long tradition of setting up when the UN asks for our contribution to international operations, if and when we have appropriate capacities to offer. The Government Platform also gives priority to participation in UN-led international operations. Our participation in the UN operation MINUSMA, which the government has decided to offer to the UN, is thus fully in line with our commitments to the UN and in line with the government's priorities for contributions to international operations. The MINUSMA shall be based on a unanimous Security Council resolution. The operation has a strong and clear Chapter VII mandate. It's comprehensive. It will stabilise the situation, especially in the north, strengthen the state administration, facilitate humanitarian efforts, protect cultural memories and criminal prosecution of war crimes and crimes against humanity. It may use all necessary means to protect civilians and to support the Malian authorities in their task-solving efforts. This underlines the urgency of the situation facing the operation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development addressed the regional challenges facing Mali. It is a vulnerable area of humanitarian crises, weak economic and social development and many strong tensions. All are elements that create space and ground for rebellion and extremism. Al Qaida's got a foot party. There is no doubt that this could easily develop into a new venue for international terrorism. The UN operation implies that the international community assumes responsibility for the actions undertaken by the African Union and the ECOWAS Regional Economic Cooperation Organisation and is in addition to the tasks carried out by the French Force and which they will continue to carry out, even if it is stepped down. It is important — it was also underlined by the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee — that the relationship between the French force and the UN operation be clarified. It is encouraging that the African Union and regional cooperation in West Africa have contributed to a situation that developed in Mali. The countries of the region take greater responsibility for cooperation, not only for economic development but also for ensuring democracy and security. But that doesn't mean we can shade away. On the contrary, it creates a stronger commitment that we too should contribute when needed. The situation in Mali affects us in several ways, as pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. The dissolution of states and the footholds of fundamentalism and terrorism can spread and affect us too. The terrorist attack in In Amenas was a brutal reminder of that. Norway has been involved in development work in Mali for more than 20 years, through several non-governmental organisations. The situation in the country also affects us in such a way that development opportunities such as Norwegian aid have helped to create can be lost, whether extremism and Islamist fundamentalism are not combated. However, the most important thing is that the people of Mali and neighbouring countries deserve a better future than the rebel groups and Islamic fundamentalists can offer. MINUSMA is an operation that will not be controversial as to its basis and mission, nor in the region. But it will be a comprehensive and demanding operation. The United Nations' third largest operation, with over 11,000 soldiers and nearly 1,500 policemen. It's taking up the AFISMA power and it's going to have a very heavy African entry. The decision to offer up to five staff officers and up to 15 persons to the Information and Analysis Unit as well as police officers has full support from the Workers’ Party, on that basis and with the priorities outlined by the State Councils. It also has the civil contributions of the Development Minister, who will support the political solution, which is the key to a sustainable solution to the problems in the country and region. Our contribution is not substantial in number, but there are important capacities, upon which the operation will depend. Should there be a need to expand or change our contribution, I assume that the government will return to Stortinget and consult about it in the usual way. It is important to underline and be aware that this will be a demanding operation. We're talking about a country that's more than three times our own in the area, and that's located in an area where the boundaries are drawn in the sand, and where the formations of states are weak, the economies are bad, and people's living conditions are creepy. But that's exactly why international society's efforts are required.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e347	Let me first of all thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the two Councils for their presentations. I think it is natural and important that you play on layers in Stortinget in such serious and important matters. Let me also be quite clear that the Progress Party supports what we now intend to do, not least because it has a basis in a United Nations mandate, but also because the part of the world that has it has a duty to set up and contribute when other parts have it difficult, for the sake of the whole civil population – children and adults of both sexes. It is important for the Progress Party to be clear that we should help when we can, and when it is natural that we do so. In this way, there is no doubt that a contribution from Norway is natural, and that is something we should and must do. At the same time, it is important to stress – at least for our part – that the safety of the personnel we are going to send down is crucial. I assume that the respective departments and state councils have a constant focus on it. If we're going to keep the legitimacy to contribute, it's also important that we take care of the people we send out, in a good and proper way. The experience from Afghanistan, where we have been for a long time, shows that there are some challenges. We do very much that is good, at the same time there is no doubt that those who come home do not always perceive coming home as as as simple. Now we're going to go into a new scenario -- if you can say it like that -- that's going to be tough. Although we are not supposed to send special forces or anyone else, we are going to send personnel downhill. What's at least certain about this kind of situation is that you never know what you're going to end up in. Then I think that the key prerequisites for our part are that the personnel are prepared, that they have the right equipment, proper training, proper typing and good assumptions to go down. The better prepared you are, the better you are able to do your job. I hope and assume that the experience from Afghanistan in this way will help to do this properly and well. I am also pleased that there is a time limit on the contribution. For the Progress Party, at least we are not prepared to end up in a situation similar to that in Afghanistan, which is a reference point here, and end up there for ten years. That's not our goal today. That's why I'm very happy that you have a time limit of one year in the first place. We are, of course, open to reopen this debate, if the government comes back and says, the assumptions have changed. We need to be there longer. We want to dry up the contribution. Then, of course, we're going to set up and listen to the recordings that are coming, but as of today, it's crucial for our part that you have a time limit on it. Let me also say that there's one point in the assumptions we disagree with. I look at the Ministry of Defence's website to finance that part of the contribution within the framework that is in place. We basically disagree with that. We believe that all tasks of this nature should be further financed. I expect the Minister of Defence to come up here later today and say something about how it will be financed. If I don't remember faults, I'm probably sharing the line of thought with the committee's head, that if there's any money saved – to use such a term – from Afghanistan, they're meant for other purposes. I want to hear how this is going to be financed, and what the worst case scenario might be going on. I have another moment, which I also think is important: when our crews who have been out come home, we actually expect them to be taken care of and given the same honor as those who have served, for example. in Afghanistan. There have been situations, where people have been elsewhere and felt like a second-class service provider, on behalf of the Norwegian state. I think that's basically a bad way to treat people who take a lot of risk. For the Progress Party, we think that all those who leave and take risks should be treated equally when they come back. Those who do the job, with the flag on their shoulders, or people in civil, who do a job for us, shall be taken care of and given the same reward when they come back, no matter what kind of country they've been in. I don't intend to spend so much time on the background, because it's done more before me, but the main thing for us is to focus on Norway having economic muscles to do this. Others have dealt with this, among others. the Minister for Assistance. It's natural. We have been asked to contribute with the strength capacities we have. We think it's possible to do this. I also heard that the Minister for Defence pointed out the quality of the people we have. I have an additional question – in addition to funding – to the Minister of Defence: Would this operation be possible without a Norwegian contribution? If that's how our personnel are key personnel to do this, I think it puts the matter in a special light. If we do this because we're asked in a more general inquiry, there's a little bit of different assessments behind it. At least I think it's important to clarify it. But the Progress Party will support this. We're going to be clear, and we're going to expect the staff to be taken care of – before, during and after – because I think it has something to do for the motivation of those who do a job, and of those who go out and make an effort, whether they're in voluntary organisations, civil sector employees in Norway, or they're in defense. I believe that their motivation is largely governed by the success of doing things. Let me re-use Afghanistan as an example: some people have expressed some great frustration that it is going to be difficult to see the relationship between what you wanted and what was a Norwegian political goal here, and the situation you got into, and what you were set to do far away. So I hope you have a good and broad focus on burning those who are going to do the job for us. Then we're betting that this is going well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e377	Mali was not long ago among very few countries that lay at the top of the liberation ranking that Freedom House had of land in Africa. Despite ethnic tensions and regional divisions between North and South and strong poverty, the country has for 20 years been able to function as a free democracy with a free press. That democracy is now gone. hawks in Bamako took power at a military coup last year, in response to the government's handling of rebel movements with – let's say – limited uprisings in the people. Thus, it is those who have wanted an armed conclusion to the conflict who have been sitting on the cards on both sides in the last year. That civil war has been a tragedy to the country. All parties are responsible for very serious human rights violations. Islamist groups have used the opportunity to introduce sharialover into the areas they have controlled. Amputations and medieval methods of punishment have been common. Mali's government forces have demonstrated a totally unacceptable brutality in their fight against the rebels. France, too, has participated in hard fights and has made a strong move towards the rebel forces, while in other cases, such as at Kidal, they have acted almost as a buffer between the other fighting parties in Mali. Now France steps gradually down in Mali. It is the UN, which, on behalf of the world community, must contribute to stability and human rights and the implementation of the road map in Mali. That's what's needed. 400,000 people are on the run. A serious food crisis threatens, and for every day Mali does not have a legitimate and elected government where everyone has been involved in elections and political processes, the opportunities for reconciliation are getting worse. In such cases, the UN, not other types of international forces, must contribute. Of the 80 000 peacekeeping soldiers in Africa, only a few hundred are from Europe. UN peacekeeping operations must reflect the diversity of the UN. To put it straight, it is not morally acceptable that all the efforts and risks of the world society's peacekeeping operations should be taken by soldiers who are dark in the skin and come from poor countries. I can't. Therefore, both the SV and the red-green have long been concerned that Norway should prioritise participation in UN-led peacekeeping operations rather than other types of international involvement. For all intents and purposes, there are good counter performances against participating in MINUSMA. The conflict is complex. We do not know what kind of government you will get in Mali after the elections, how legitimate it will be, how well the elections will be conducted, and how reconciliation will proceed. It is not certain that the mission will succeed, or that violence will end. The UN personnel in Mali are going to be exposed, and France's role seems to me to have problematic aspects — highly problematic aspects. But that's exactly why it's so important that we contribute. Peace-keeping UN-led operations with a solid mandate are the most legitimate and important way in which the world community can contribute to stability, so that the political process, reconciliation, humanitarian work, elections, yes, everything that is needed for Mali to once again become a free democracy with a future can go its way. Finally, I would like to say that this debate has shown how important and useful it is that we have a free, open and thorough debate before we contribute strengths in international operations. Let it be a model also for the afterlife. I hope the debate today is also the beginning of a slightly broader discussion on the UN and the mandates given to the UN peacekeeping operations, because there is no doubt that the mandate of MINUSMA is unusually strong. Many have pointed out the problematic aspects of this. The same applies to the mandate of the United Nations for the East Congolese forces. The UN peacekeeping operations depend on a trust among all parties that impose natural constraints on what kind of power you can use. But let us not forget, for all of this debate, the unfathomable tragedies that have occurred, partly because the world community and the United Nations peacekeeping forces have been paralysed and have not been given the mandate that the world community should have given them in order to safeguard human rights and the security of civil society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e392	I too would like to thank the three Councils for their thorough presentation. The situation in Mali, and in Sahel, has evolved in a direction that requires greater international involvement. The UN Security Council has unanimously decided to establish this UN operation to protect civilians and to support the Malian authorities. The aim is to move away from a situation of unclear political relations to a situation in which legitimate choices can be made that can help reverse the development of Mali in the right direction. I would like to emphasise that political missions are also part of the mandate of the Security Council. In addition to military capabilities – to which I come back – Norway will contribute resources to strengthen precisely political processes and humanitarian development. As several representatives have stressed in the debate so far, there is a very difficult situation in this part of Africa, with food crises, poverty and conflicts between different population groups. I am pleased that the statements make it clear that there is a regional perspective on which our contributions are based, due to the special importance of Mali for the entire Sahel region. In Soria Moria II, the government assumes that Norwegian participation in international operations should be enshrined in the UN Pact and have a clear UN mandate, and that the UN is the only international body that can legitimize the use of power. In order to strengthen political processes and reach them with humanitarian aid, military power is sometimes needed. As the Minister for Development has described, considerable humanitarian aid is now also being provided, both in Mali and elsewhere in the region, to help ensure democratic development. We believe that it is very important to end up on the United Nations. The Minister of Foreign Affairs showed in his statement that Western countries have for a long time contributed too little, but rather left UN operations to other countries. It is positive that this trend is turning around, and I hope it will continue. I am also pleased that the focus is on Nordic cooperation on military contributions and working on common Nordic solutions for deployment, supply and coordination of efforts. The Norwegian contribution is limited in nature. However, even if it is time-limited, we must take into account that the operation can be long-term and that the Norwegian contribution can be extended. This will allow many people to be affected. It is a great responsibility to send Norwegian personnel out in demanding situations of considerable risk. We want to stress from the Center Party that we are committed to the security of our forces. Nor will the responsibility of Norwegian staff cease when our people return to Norway. A good veterinary policy ensures that personnel are maintained before, during and after participation in international operations. We know that the threat of terrorism against both the civilian population and international personnel has been high. We should not underestimate that these are tasks that are risky. Therefore, it is essential that the safety situation be kept under constant review.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e416	On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would also like to thank the three Councils for a thorough and good review of Norway's participation in the UN operation in Mali. Let it be clear that the Christian People's Party supports Norwegian participation in the UN operation in Mali. But let it be equally clear that we see the military effort as just a sub-component of the overall strategy that needs to be achieved in order to create lasting peace in this conflict-filled and poor country. For us, it is vital that the operation has a clear UN mandate. The UN Security Council considers the situation in Mali to be a threat to international peace and security. That is why the Security Council has unanimously decided to establish a United Nations operation in Mali. There is thus no doubt that the basis of international law is present for Norwegian participation. Such a situation in Mali has developed over the past few years, military and police efforts are now necessary to create the security required to succeed in political reforms and social development elsewhere. It is natural for Norway, together with other Nordic countries, to contribute to this. The Christian People's Party also attaches great importance to the safety of its personnel. It is a prerequisite for Norwegian participation that our personnel in the UN operation are ensured a robust strength protection. In our view, the UN operation is also important to prevent international terrorists and organised cross-border crime from getting footholds in Mali. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we would like to stress the importance of the UN's becoming strongly involved. The UN operation in Mali is planned to consist of 11 200 military personnel and 1440 police, as well as civilian personnel. Most of the crews come from African countries, as mentioned. The UN operation is in addition to the French forces operating in Mali since early 2013. The French forces will continue their anti-terrorist operations and will not be part of the UN force. The military operation cannot provide a lasting solution alone. In our view, political reforms are very important which reduce the level of conflict between the north and the south of the country. The Tuareans in the north have long been in conflict with the authorities. When armed Tuares with military experience from Libya returned to their homeland after Gaddafi's fall, there was an uprising in the New Year in 2012. Forces in the army were despaired at the lack of action in attempts to free the northern part of the country. They made a military coup, deposed the government, and declared the Constitution as dissolved. At the top of it all, some Islamic extremist groups took over power in the north. They introduced brutal sharialovers and left more and more areas until French troops were deployed in January of this year and drove them back. So there is a formidable need to stabilise the security situation and get a political process on track. A first step is to make choices and establish a legitimate government. The Christian People's Party therefore agrees that Norway is worth 40 million. kr for the implementation of elections in July 2013 and a transition to a legitimate board. Such assistance is important. The aim is for the choice to contribute to reconciliation. The stabilisation of the security situation is important for the return of refugees. This is a humanitarian challenge. With nearly 200,000 internally displaced persons and some 200,000 refugees in Mali, very many have been hit by the violence and war of recent years. Moreover, there is a great need for post-war reconstruction of the Islamic rebel groups in northern Malta. Civil assistance is therefore important. In addition to pure reconstruction, Norway should also contribute more long-term to promoting economic development, better school and health care and a fairer distribution in the country. We must therefore be realistic. This job is not done in a short time. We must have a long-term perspective on ensuring peace in Mali on a lasting basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e444	The left also supports the participation of ministers and state councils – in order to use the right concept – in this area. There are two main reasons for our support. The first is that for the Left, it is important that we do not do anything that weakens the UN and the UN's impact attached to their decisions. It is also in the Norwegian interest that the UN's opinions are being pushed and weighed down, and that the UN messages have great authority in the world community. But it is also important to combat extreme Islamism, and the events in In Amenas showed us that instability in this region actually affects Norwegian life. In fact, Norway has quite considerable competence in this area. So sail if there is a country that can be experienced as far away from us, there are many Northmen who have the competence to work in that region. Especially in the peace process during the civil war from 1992 to 1996, and especially in the northern region – which is important here – Nordics from many different relief organisations have a great deal of competence in how to work in the region. That's what I think is important to build on. If we are to be able to build a stable democracy, it is important to have a broad public participation, and it is important that the government has a plan for how they use the commitment and competence of Norwegian organisations from the efforts they made in the peace process in the 1990s. I believe that a prerequisite for Norwegian participation is the desire to build a democracy. I believe that we should channel more of our money into the regions, both to strengthen education, to combat poverty, to build democracy and to build a party that is not based on ethnicity. Building broad popular movements and strengthening popular participation must be one of the objectives behind our participation. So I have to say that we have a tradition here in the hall to talk about the short engagements. It's clear that formally we're going in with a pretty short engagement here. But experience is very rare that short engagement becomes as short as we think and hope. If we first enter a process of creating peace and democracy in a country, we have long-term obligations. I think we should talk about that from day one. If we now have a short engagement, we are now involved in a process that often assumes something more. Just look at the other peacekeeping operations that we've been involved in, which have been incredibly much longer than what I think was said in the first major debates when they were considered to be involved in them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e457	I would like to thank you for a good debate in the extension of the presentations. About a year ago, I was in Niger. I visited there a refugee camp where refugees from Mali told me about their situation, about the importance of their expulsion, and about the uncertainty associated with the rest of the family. They kept in regular contact with them at home simply because they had a mobile phone and called home and tried to find out what the situation was like for their own family, for cattle and for others. I think it's important that it's in the centre when we discuss our commitment to the UN – both civil and military – that we are now doing. We must remember that the reason we are present and contribute in Mali is the people of Mali. I think of the articles of the Progress Party, which focused on the importance of security for our forces. I fully agree with that, and the Minister of Defense will certainly answer some of the questions raised by Jan Arild Ellingsen. I would also like to invite everyone to share in stressing the importance for the people of Mali – what it is like when 400,000 people are driven on flight, and the importance of safety is absolutely vital for them to return, and for them not to be destroyed and demolished on the day of their lives due to a lack of security. That is why it is important that the UN be able to contribute to that security, so it is important that we participate and support it. The defence of democracy and the defence of fundamental human rights presupposes the possibility of enforcing the rule of law and the possibility of enforcing the fundamental principles of how a country is governed. There are, as several of the speakers have been, many complications and many cuts in the sea. For example, there should now be a choice, and from the Norwegian side, we underline the importance, which has also been stressed by many, that the turnout will be as high as possible, and that it will be as wide as possible – in all parts of the country. That is why it must first be presidential elections, and it must be a broader choice later on. It is important to have sufficient time to be able to mobilise precisely the necessary participation and to be able to mobilise the range of lists and candidates necessary to ensure legitimacy. If you get choices where the upsurge is high in the south and low in the north, you have problems with the legitimacy of the board. Democracy works that way that you don't know who's being elected. It is not guaranteed that those elected to rule have a desire for real reconciliation. That's why I was in it, and the Foreign Minister was in it too. We are closely following developments, and we are committed to ensuring the widest possible opening up of elections and the widest possible opening up of the reconciliation process. That's what we're going to do with the arctic eyes. It is not possible to resolve the situation in Mali militarily. You have to have a civil development in the north. One of the questions raised was food safety and development. There is no doubt that the Sahel region has been the hardest hit by drought in recent years. It creates ground for conflict because there is a shortage of resources. The President of Niger expressed himself this way: he said that before it was dry every ten years, then it was dried every five years, and now they have had three drying periods in seven years. It is clear that the ability of the population to cope with these kinds of crises is much, much more difficult. We notice the effects of climate change, and we have to deal with it," said the President. He won the choice of a programme that was just about food security and the ability of the population to get their own food – food security at the core of security. I think this shows the complexity that many people have had in the debate. You can't create a positive development if you don't have security. You can't achieve lasting security in the area at all if you don't have an inclusive democracy, where everyone feels they're getting the opportunity to participate and contribute, and if you can't create development in the most marginalized areas. This requires political will and long-term efforts from the international community. It is important that Norway also participates. I can see that there is a broad uproar about from Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e476	First, I want to say that I am very pleased with the broad support of the Stortinget – that all parties support the fact that we are now going to contribute to the UN operation in Mali. It is very important – even as the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence said about the importance of contributing – for the soldiers who are leaving, that they actually have political support in their backs. I want to underline that. At the same time, it is important that we are also quite heavy in different places, in Afghanistan and in Operation Ocean Shield, where Norway is doing important tasks. There have been questions about funding and the 30 million. kr that this operation costs. They shall be covered over Cape. 1792 Norwegian operations abroad. The reason why we can do that is because the decline in Afghanistan has gone faster than planned. We're still going to spend money to strengthen the other parts of the defense. So it doesn't go beyond the planned escalation, as suggested here. The concept of operation is still being worked on, but there are several who have been involved in the safety of the Norwegian contribution to the strength. It is important, and it is also not to hide the fact that the security situation in this area of operation will be demanding. That is why it is committed to a robust UN strength protection. In addition, as I said, the French Force has been mandated by the Security Council Resolution to intervene if the personnel of MINUSMA are exposed to imminent danger. The French forces will also be able, where necessary, to use other French forces in the region to protect MINUSMA. It's also saying that the Norwegian staff should be at the headquarters in Bamako, and not in the field. It in itself reduces their risk. Sanity and hospitals are, as planned, maintained both through a field hospital and through an agreement with a hospital in Bamako. There has also been talk about something important, and that is how coordination between the United Nations operation and the French forces in Mali is ensured. At least I can tell you that there are negotiations going on between France and the United Nations on an agreement that specifies the exact cooperation between the two forces, a so-called Technical Agreement. In addition, there will be liaison functions in the headquarters of Bamako and in the sector headquarters of the region. I mentioned in my post the French forces that are still going to conduct anti-terrorism operations, and that it is part of the task they have. The main task of MINUSMA is stabilisation and to help the Malian authorities recover legitimacy and state authority in the country. These operations will go in parallel. The representative of Ellingen was concerned about whether this task could be carried out without the contribution from Norway. Then I want to say that we are doing what the United Nations has asked us to do. It's an important contribution. Although there are not many people in number, information and analysis units in particular and staff officers are important, because there are important key functions in managing the operation. Information and analysis are also important in order to provide a better understanding of the situation in order to better predictability of the security situation, both for the civilian population and for the personnel involved in the UN operation. In the end, I would like to say in terms of this with certainty and risk: it is clear that we are doing what we can. I feel that this operation is robust when it comes to taking the necessary precautions. Likewise, when we send soldiers in an operation, it's because there's risk – even if we do everything we can to protect our personnel and ensure security.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e499	Let me also express great satisfaction at the fact that we have had a good and thorough debate and that there is full agreement and support from all parties. It is, as the Minister of Defense said, very important, not least for the people we are now going to send out into something we all know is a demanding, but right and important mission. I think that this is where we are, my two Councillors and I, and that we focus on the whole -- defence, development, foreign affairs -- is very clearly reflected also in how the United Nations puts this operation together. As has been said, it is in the interaction between policy measures for reconciliation, state building, the construction of the rule of law, development measures and the creation of security — in the short term, but also in the longer term — that the solutions, both in Mali and in the Sahel region, must lie. I want to highlight that all the experience suggests that in such complex, complex, comprehensive UN operations, management means a lot. You can have as many structures as you want, but you have bad management, so it doesn't help. In this case, I would say in this Chamber that I believe the UN has chosen a very good leader, a good SRSG – special representative of the Secretary-General. I know Bert Koenders from the Netherlands very well through many years of cooperation. He has been a Minister for Development, and he has been a foreign politician for many years in the Dutch Parliament. He was actively involved in the Dutch Parliament's hearing on the Srebrenica massacre, so he knows a lot about UN operations, including history, about how things have gone wrong in some operations, and how to prevent it. He has also worked in the EU’s foreign service, precisely with an overall approach to conflicts. I think we have a very good person, and he's very social-democrat. Then I want to say a little about the time perspective – it was called for. I think we should be aware that solving the challenges in Mali and Sahel is going to take many years. We will be present through development measures and political presence for many years to come. The time limit is for the military contribution. I think it's important that we set a clear time limit, and then you get to renew it when the time comes. But I would like to remind you that in Mali's neighbourhood in West Africa, we have just seen successful UN operations that have been started, carried out, and ended with good luck – as opposed to many other places in the world. I want to remind you that in Liberia and Sierra Leone, just before the Afghanistan war, we saw some of the bloodiest and most cruel conflicts in recent international history. The UN went heavily into it. The UN had major peacekeeping operations. They carried out their missions, and they pulled out. Now it is not that all the problems in Liberia have been solved, but I have been able to see for myself that it is considerably better than it was when the war was over, precisely because one has had a long-term perspective, but also that the United Nations military contribution knows its visitation time. I think having a clear and clear mandate is always good. There were also some comments on the fact that the mandate was in a way too clear and too clear. No, that's always good. To have some kind of reserve of power, that you have a capacity to escalate the use of power, that can be exactly what it takes to make you not have to do it. Because you have an authority that you have a robust power, and that's some of what you've learned from thorough studies of previous operations. I will end by saying that it is very important for the government that we participate directly in UN operations. Blue helmet is important. It's true, as the head of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee said, that setting up the UN through a regional organisation like NATO, it's just as legitimate, it's just as good. We've been standing heavily and collecting up about the operation in Afghanistan, and there we'll still be for years to come. But it is also true that we and many other Western countries have shone with our absence in all the other operations that we have allowed to land in Africa, Latin America and Asia alone. I am very pleased that we see that we can now contribute to what is actually a trend; that Western countries now increasingly want to contribute directly to UN operations. I think that countries of our kind have some specific capacities, not in all possible areas, but in some of the areas that need to be put together for whole operations and military operations with capacities that make the whole more than the sum of the parts. That's exactly what we're doing here, and that's why I think that the fact that we can now participate in a blue helmet FN operation is something we're going to think of as a very positive development.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e514	This concludes the debate on the presentation. The President proposes that the statement on the development of Sahel and Norway's participation in the UN operation MINUSMA be annexed to the Protocol. At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 2 to 9 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e609	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that speaking time be allocated as follows: The working party 25 minutes, the party of progress 20 minutes, right 15 minutes, Socialist Left 10 minutes, centre 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 15 minutes, left 10 minutes and council 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to four lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and up to six lines with replies after contributions from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that the speaker on the list, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. So the President reminds us that in a procedure such as this, there are many rapporteurs, but that the possibility for the rapporteurs to have an unlimited number of posts applies only in relation to the matter for which they are rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e622	Today we treat Report. St. 20, On the right way. Quality and diversity in common schools, and a number of Document 8 proposals. I want to start by thanking the Committee for what I have experienced as a very good and constructive cooperation. I also want to thank you for all the input the committee has received. It has been a real pleasure to witness and to experience the great commitment that exists for Norwegian school. The committee is behind much of the option. We agree on most of the measures proposed by the government in the communication, and we strongly agree on the reality description and on the challenges facing Norwegian school. I think that's important, and I'm looking forward to a debate on what's one of the most important things that politicians can do, that's to make it easier for all children and young people to realise their potential and live up to their dreams. Norwegian education policy has largely been a success story. “Knowledge of the whole people” has resulted in one of the world’s most productive and adaptive working lives. Different people with different backgrounds have had the school as a common meeting place, and it has created a society with less social inequality than in most other countries. But there were many who got an impetus from the international surveys in the early 2000s. A clearer focus on quality, clearer learning objectives and basic skills was absolutely necessary. Nine years after the reform was adopted here in Stortinget, it's a pleasure to be able to say that the arrows are now moving in the right direction. The students learn more and have improved in math, reading and natural sciences. The international tests repeatedly confirm that the trend in Norwegian school has reversed. We're on the right track. But let me also hurry and add: Norwegian school has a broad social mandate and is going to train whole people. Then it is also gratifying that the student survey shows that Norwegian students thrive well in Norwegian school, and it is not possible to rejoice enough that Norway has some of the world's most democratic students. There is every reason to be proud of Norwegian school, proud of students, teachers and parents, who every day make an invaluable effort. But there are still challenges. We have greater ambitions, and therefore the government has submitted a message to take Norwegian school on. Let me say something about the Committee's comments. I believe that the opposition will explain its minority proposals and comments and that the 8 proposals will be commented on later in the debate. The setting is divided into three main areas: an inclusive primary education for the society of the future, flexibility and relevance in secondary education. Let me start with the first -- an inclusive common school. Equally entitled to education has made Norway one of the world’s highest education countries. The common school provides the basis for equal opportunities for all children and young people, social cohesion and small differences. For the majority, it was essential to stop privatisation, create work in school and call about the inclusive primary school. In Sweden, they have tried out the right-hand dream of school privatisation. School results are falling and differences are increasing. In Norway, we have chosen a different solution. We have put in place measures to strengthen the community school, and the Knowledge promise has helped to raise the level. A culture of early intervention is now in place, so that students who need it will be caught up and followed up earlier. The initiatives ‘Better assessment practices’ and ‘Assessment for learning’ have contributed to a learning-enhancing assessment culture in school. We're going to build on that. Norway is a country with small social differences, and it is a fundamental good. It is therefore gratifying that the most successful students in the international studies have been the most disadvantaged. It is essential that we intensify work against dropouts in higher education. Many good interventions have been put in place, but there are also many students who fall out of school for very different reasons than lack of knowledge. We know that mental problems are one of the most important reasons why young people drop out of school. We therefore need more professional groups into school, and we need to build good multi-disciplinary teams around the teacher. It is also time for a new power cap against bullying. I am pleased that a unanimous committee believes that a wide-ranging selection should be set up to review the whole work against bullying. Now all good forces are to be combined and knowledge collected. I have great expectations for that work. There's a lot we don't know about what skills will be required of us in the future. Today’s education system is designed to train children and young people for professions that may not exist today. To this end, the Committee places emphasis on the importance of a broad learning vision and on the broad societal mandate of the school. There is reason to believe that social skills, innovation, creativity, cultural understanding, language and ICT will become important in the future. Measures are also being put in place to strengthen the practical aesthetics of schools. It will help to equip us for the challenges and opportunities of the future. It is brilliant news that Norwegian fourth-graders are world champions in progress in math. It shows that the commitment to basic skills and real-time vocational strategies has been important. However, we have greater ambitions, and that is why the Communication also launches measures to strengthen the real skills of initial training. This Communication focuses in particular on secondary and vocational education and training. We need more skilled skilled workers who will create values and build our welfare society further. The government proposes increased flexibility for the professions. Professional students shall be given the opportunity to switch between business and school training earlier and more frequently, and shall be given the opportunity to specialise in the field of education earlier in order to increase motivation and implementation. We also need to review the entire supply structure of vocational and vocational training. One of the major challenges is that half of the professionals choose Vg3 based on Vg2 and half of them cancel again. We can't afford that, and we're doing more of it. A right of establishment shall be provided for those with completed diplomas. This will help more people to complete their vocational training. The future of work will require more competence, and we need a work life that can change quickly. Norwegian trade union workers are independent, innovative and innovative. The majority will therefore recognise the competence they possess by letter after at least four years of training and provide them with more options for higher education. For those of us who have a modern vision of knowledge, it's important to equalize knowledge. For school-leaving students who want higher education, vocational education will now become a natural way to higher education because we open up more opportunities. It will change and improve recruitment, and it will raise the level of professional occupation. In our small country, we can't afford to shut the competent people out of higher education. We believe, on the other hand, that it is a strength that we train people who have both practical and theoretical knowledge. The business community is asking for these candidates. The proposal is supported by the LO and the NHO because it will strengthen competitiveness and adaptability. Trygve Bratteli must have said when he became Minister of Finance that in this building I can only be Minister or janitor. I'm proud to belong to a movement that has always opened up the education system to more people, who have recognised the skills and abilities of people regardless of how they have acquired them. Today we are taking a new step in the right direction, and I am proud of that. In this setting, there are also several disagreements about what should be the direction of Norwegian school. The harvest's choice will be a direction choice also for Norwegian school. I think the voters deserve a clarification as to what the citizens' school policy really is. It is very nice that the opposition has agreed that the teacher is important – I think everyone in this room agrees with them. But the question is, do we get grades in high school with a civil government, ranking schools, optional side goals, more leveling and more tests and more bureaucracy? I'm asking because here's the big crack inside the opposition. The working party and the red-greens clearly say that we will continue to bet on more and better teachers. We listen to researchers and teachers who warn against traits in childhood and more level-sharing. We do not want to return to the time of ranking schools and market thinking in Norwegian school. In Norway, we have strengthened the primary school. We're on the right track, but we're going on. But we also know that quality costs, and therefore the red-greens don't come with promises of tax cuts in the billions class to those who have the most from before. We're going to keep spending the big money on these big problems. With this big message, we provide the basis for continuing Norwegian school by calling about the inclusive common school and by focusing on actions that we know work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e694	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e697	More than one in three who starts engineering school are falling from today, and the challenge of mathematics as a subject is the main cause of this dropout. Those who start engineering today have 15 weeks in mathematics behind them from high school. The position and government – with the Workers' Party at the head – open up for candidates with 3 weeks in mathematics to be able to apply under the same conditions as those with 15 weeks in mathematics. The majority write in the setting that you ‘shows that when entering through Coordinated Recording, the calculation of the score shall be carried out in the same way for all applicants, irrespective of whether they come from preparatory or professional study programmes’. Does the Workers' Party think that the knowledge base after 3 weeks in mathematics is the same thing as 15 weeks in mathematics? And will this not inevitably increase the absence of engineering training in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e709	What I think is a pity about the progress party's way of asking questions is that the Progress Party totally overlooks the fact that these rivers, the candidates, have also had two years of company training. There they've learned a reality way of learning mathematics, they've gotten it into a practical way that will make it much easier for them to also learn this theoretically. It's also like that, for example. I can get into engineering today, but I have enough self-confidence to realize that I might have benefited from an advanced course. I believe and trust that Norwegian young people choose an education that is best for themselves. Then I want to say that the large project of the Workers' Party has always been about opening up education to more people. We've established the Loan Fund, we've decided that everyone should have the right to go to high school, we've introduced ten-year primary school. Each time, the right-hand side has voted against and justified it with a level-down. It is not surprising that this is happening today too, but I hope the Progress Party will come after – as they do in many other matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e718	I can guarantee both the representative of Håheim and the Norwegian people that this will not survive the government shift to the autumn. In fact, people who have vocational education today have the opportunity to take higher education through professional admission, so plumbers can take the engineering of irrigation or plumbing and electricians can take electrical engineering training. But then there is a requirement for education to be organized in such a way that these students, who obviously have many strong professional and technical qualities with them, can spend more time in mathematics in engineering education. This is a system that the Workers' Party is now undermining. Does the representative of Håheim not fear that the Y-road, which has functioned perfectly well and which the universities in large parts of the country have voluntarily introduced, is now being undermined and that the result will be that fewer with diplomas actually achieve higher education? It does not help to be able to begin higher education if you are not given the prerequisites for completion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e725	I fully agree with the representative Lien when he boasts of the Y-way. It is a fantastic offer, and I would like to congratulate the institutions that have set up the organized offer. We're to maintain it. I have to say that I was very happy yesterday, when I read Technical Weekly, where Deans from several institutions that have the Y-way today say they want to maintain the Y-way anyway. That's a good offer for a lot of people. So we fully agree that we must maintain it. We've received input, we've heard the criticism, and I think it's important that we now follow developments carefully, because the goal is that they with a degree letter get real opportunities to get a good higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e732	It has now been three years since the Right promoted its professional profession, where we proposed the right to build on by letter. Fortunately, we have now come so far that a total mass agrees. However, the opposition has now submitted a proposal on those students who start in Vg1 and Vg2 for the autumn and who will register in the school at the earliest by letter in 2016 to take advantage of the possibility to build on the study competence. Can the representative of Håheim explain why the Workers' Party and the Government's parties are not prepared to support the proposal, which can give the students who are starting this fall the assurance that they can take their professional letter and know that they have not used up their court, but can be based on when they have completed their diploma?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e739	As represented by Aspaker, this right will mean that we will facilitate even more people to complete their vocational training and that we will have more skilled workers. With regard to the point of time at which this is to be introduced, it is that this is most likely to involve the costs of the county that we are committed to being financed from here. That's why we have to get back to it, even in a state budget process, because we don't grant money in this message. So that's the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e745	Then I will follow up by saying that these are often students who are going to drop off and not take their professional letter, and who sign up for a supplementary year – Vg3 – at school, which is quite costly, even for the county municipality. So here we can imagine that these are the same means you're kind of going to switch to another kind of building in the future. What makes it impossible to give these students this opportunity now? If you are going to follow Håheim's reasoning, you will never be able to give it the right, because the time you may have to give money to the county councils, however, will be several years in advance – if you think it is necessary to grant additional funds. I don't think so. I rather think it will be a good store for the county that fewer people will take up the building and that more people will take the letter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e752	I think it's great that the Right is impatient on behalf of the country's professional students. So are we. But as I said in my previous answer, we have to come back to whether these are the costs for which the state is to compensate the county councils. At least in a transition, I think this too will be very social – what it's called, that it doesn't cost money – cheap, that it's good. Here we are also impatient, and we aim to introduce this as quickly as possible, but are not ready today to confirm this already from the harvest of. But as soon as possible we'll do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e757	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e760	First, I would like to thank the Committee and the rapporteur for their very good cooperation. Report. St. 20 for 2012–2013, On the right track, has its background in the broad and thorough evaluation of the Knowledge Promise. In the course of the hearing, the main intentions of the notification were expressed to a large extent. The party of progress seems to be well-managed and supporting the main lines of the case. Having said that, I would like to add that we are missing and have missed a greater commitment to the teachers and more focus on the students in the eight years that this government has been responsible for. We are pleased that the Knowledge Lift emphasises the competence and learning outcomes of students, and that the message strongly suggests improvements in what is not working so well in school. Now it's like the school is also going to make sure that the students get both education and personal education. The general part of the curriculum shall be renewed and the purpose paragraph of the school's values and societal tasks shall be emphasised in the new general part of the curriculum. The Progress Party considers it very important that the paragraph be actively applied and supports the proposal to draw up a plan to better integrate the purpose paragraph into the school. The Progress Party has noted that an overall committee indicates that strengthening its identity, understanding of democracy and democratic participation also depends on having knowledge of what happened before, during and after World War II, both inside and outside Norway. We are pleased that the Committee agrees that spreading knowledge about the historical experience of totalitarian ideologies and extreme thinking goods from World War II is an important tool in the fight against intolerance and antisemitism. The Party is engaged in vocational training and is associated with the measures set out in the notification. These will contribute to more relevance and flexibility. We are pleased that the proposals in this case largely support the party's Document 8 proposal to make the content of vocational training more relevant to the subjects in which the students are educated. It is important to raise the status of professionals so that more people complete their education. We are therefore in favour of establishing the right to study competence for students with a degree letter with effect from the students who start in Vg1 or Vg2 school year 2013–2014. The Progress Party believes that the public must go ahead in order to obtain more apprenticeships, but we are sceptical that this should be required in tendering contracts. Such a requirement may exclude enterprises from the procurement process. Since the vast majority of enterprises in Norway are small and some of them do not have access to apprentices, we will also have other tools such as reducing the employer’s fee and increasing apprenticeship grants to attract more apprentices. Nor will we support the fact that a professional letter itself is entitled to higher education. We believe that today's practice with the Y-way, where students qualify through a course in subjects where they lack education, is a much better tool. I record that all parties recognise the need for real science and are positive in the field. Nevertheless, only the Progress Party and the Left propose that the government should facilitate the establishment of national real-time schools. Their creation will provide young people throughout the country with a unique educational opportunity with a real-life interest and talent, and will contribute to professional development and value creation. This has only advantages. A single committee sees the need to increase the PPT’s competence and therefore supports a national offer of continuing training for the PP service. That's good. There is also a strong consensus that action should be taken first before a decision is taken on special education for pupils. In order to test students with the actual need for special education to obtain assistance, we believe that it is appropriate to launch a pilot project where, in cooperation with the school, the PPT is allowed to apply special pedagogical measures. The teacher and his/her knowledge have an enormous impact on the students' benefits. We do not have the majority's intervention here, so the Progress Party, together with other parties, is promoting a number of proposals on the role of teachers. We want more practice in education, better organised practice, and better content and time fixing of a five-year master's degree course. There is a great need for many more qualified teachers to make the teaching profession more attractive, among other things. by providing a good follow-up to new graduates. The current guidance system is very varied in quality and still municipalities that have not established the scheme. We believe that the scheme should be strengthened and contain concrete objectives for the guidance of newly trained teachers. Furthermore, unqualified teachers must be given good opportunities to complete qualified education and many more teachers must be given continuing training. How and where the offer is made should not play a role. As long as the content is relevant, municipalities must participate in the State grant scheme. Sign language, bullying at school and physical activity, we'll come back to you in a later article. The Progress Party has registered that an overall committee believes that the feedback culture in the school needs to be improved. It is necessary to establish a culture of good and continuous feedback from teacher to student. A good building block in a feedback culture we believe are grades, and the Progress Party will therefore have written characters in math, Norwegian and English from the 5th grade. Many students struggle with reading and writing. This is where the teaching needs to be strengthened. The progress party equates with nine Norse and bookmaking as a subject, but does not want to have a side-by-side exam. We think it might be unfortunate for students who struggle with reading and writing. The party believes that private schools are a good addition to public schools, and that they are involved in giving students and parents real freedom of choice. As part of ensuring genuine freedom of choice, the Progress Party will equate the financing of approved private schools with public schools. For some parties, private schools are a threat to public school, and it is claimed that public school is a guarantee for a society of small social differences. However, NOVA’s evaluation of the Knowledge promise shows that the most positive character development comes in schools with a good learning environment — whether the school is public or private has little to say. It's worth noting that the character development is also pretty similar in both schools. It is positive for students to choose non-traditional professions for their gender, but we would warn against encouraging students to choose from a gender perspective. For the Progress Party, the most important thing is that it is freedom of choice and that we have good advisors who have the best possible expertise in the content and practice of the various subjects, the content of the studies and the qualifications required in the subjects. This will ensure that students make the right choices. Frequent changes in working life will require workers to need new skills. It is then important to provide well-organised training for adults. Many educational organisations point out that adult education appears to be untransparent and fragmented. In the light of this, the Progress Party encourages proposals to draw up a cross-ministerial plan in cooperation with adult training providers and labour market actors. When the vocational school is mentioned, it is expressed from all parties that this is an important school type for working life. Unfortunately, the majority's ambitions for the college stop there. NOW points out that new actors and changes in the institutional landscape mean that there is a need to look at education with a fresh look. The Progress Party has high ambitions for the school and supports NOKUT's input into developing a comprehensive national strategy for investing in quality in higher education and in vocational education. The counties have been given financial responsibility for the vocational schools. Unfortunately, in many cases, the counties give priority to their own education rather than to the funding of vocational schools. This gives little predictability and makes schools unable to provide important education in areas such as employment demand. I would like to point out that the vocational schools are actually tertiary education in the labour market, and in line with other higher education, we want them to have government funding. Since the presentation of the debate was slightly changed to make it more effective, I would like to comment on the matter for which I am the case rapporteur, and on the other issues that are under discussion in this overall debate. As the rapporteur for document 8:56 S and the subject RLE, I would say that an overall committee indicates that Norway has become a nation with many different religions and religious communities. The Committee stresses the importance and importance of having good knowledge of one's religion and another's with others in order to prevent and address social challenges in a good way. The Committee also points to the importance of the need for knowledge of the different religious communities by the teacher who teaches religion, view of life and ethics. All parties are clear that teachers must be trained in the subject in which they teach. I guess the different parties present their own policies in their contributions. The Party of Advancement sees it as necessary that teachers be educated in the field, and that the name of the subject should be Christianity, religion, view of life, and ethics. In the curriculum of the subject, more than half of the objectives of competence are related to Christianity, and we assume that they are reflected in the teaching period. In the case of proposals for school provision for patients in a health institution, it appears from an investigation carried out in February 2013 by young people with disabilities that much indicates that there are still considerable differences in the provision of training in health institutions. It is the county that is responsible for providing training to patients undergoing secondary education. However, today's system may mean that students do not receive the education they are entitled to because the county council's obligation is too little known or that the training is not met because of increased costs for the counties when students are in hospitals or rehabilitation institutions. Although the county receives grants for its secondary students, they cannot reduce, for example: the number of teachers or rents to finance the teaching of pupils at health institutions. For the Progress Party, it is important that all pupils are granted their right to education even when they are admitted to a health institution. That is why we support some of the proposals in the case. The Progress Party also refers to the important work carried out at the municipal music and cultural schools and will commend the proposers for their commitment to this offer to children and young people. The progress party sees it as a problem that the municipal cultural schools cannot take in everyone who wants to. It is unfortunate that a public offer has waiting lists as today. We record that the majority will not do anything to improve access to space. Instead, they will reduce and shift the group-based offer to the school and make the cultural school offer specialised and individually targeted to individual students. For me, it's incomprehensible that the red-greens with the knowledge and will will turn the cultural school into a place for the elite. I have four-and-a-half-year-old grandchildren who are happy every time they go to the cultural school. It's an experience to be in place when they invite to the show to show family and friends what they've been doing for a long time. With the policy of the majority in this area, the cultural school offer will be moved into the school for the benefit of the community. Then these little ones will lose the offer of cultural and music schools. The Progress Party suggests that music and cultural schools must be based on local conditions and resources, and that it is not desirable to streamline this offer in the form of more state governance. Finally, I am promoting the proposals that the Progress Party has on its own and those that we share with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e823	The representative Bente Thorsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e828	In the Workers' Party, we are followers of a knowledge-based knowledge policy. For example, Hattie has done quite extensive research on level differentiation. The effect turns out to be approximately equal to zero. The student organisation — i.e. the students — points out that there are other educational instruments that are much better. The Education Association warns against permanent level-sharing, and the parental committee is also against sorting children by level on a fixed basis. The Progress Party argues in its comments for more level-sharing. They justify this with an article from the Internet that describes a single study, which can confirm the political views of the Progress Party. Does the representative Thorsen think that Norwegian school should be managed after a single survey, which is done at 0.12 per million of the country's students? Does the representative Thorsen think that is a sensible way to run Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e835	I think it might be a good idea if the representative Håheim reads a little bit more and follows up a little bit on what's happening on the research front. The fact is that there are several investigations and studies and several commentators that there is just a difference in education. In the article that Håheim so arrogantly comments, is it actually shown that teachers get a real aha experience – is it really so that I have to put the teaching in this way in order for the student to understand and acquire knowledge? I think it's amazing that you have such an arrogant attitude and believe that reading one type of research report is the only thing true. In the Progress Party, we're open-minded, but we want research and we want to thoroughly investigate what's going on in education. But there's not much in Norwegian school that says that we're doing today, is 100 pst. That's right,
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e842	I have brought the evaluation instructions with me. It says that all students, right from the first stage, have the right to both know what skills are, what learning goals, what to measure in order and behaviour, what to pay attention to, what to master children to become better, what kind of professional development they have. They will receive a half-yearly evaluation, without grades, in the subject and in order and behaviour. Nevertheless, the Progress Party notes that the characterisation ‘will contribute to better and more accurate feedback culture’. I wonder if the representative Thorsen can explain to me what makes a numerical character more accurate than what is in the assessment regulations today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e847	It's always true to read everything that's written in a note. Unfortunately, there is too much feedback culture in the Norwegian school today. That is the broad political agreement. The Progress Party points out that there is a need for a continuous and good feedback culture. Together with grades, it will provide students with a good basis. Today, many people, when they're in eighth grade at high school, get character shocks. They often think they're much better than they are. Life is so that after eighth grade it's the number character that's being looked at, no matter what school you're going to. For the Progress Party, there is a good evaluation and feedback along the way on what the student needs to work more or perhaps less on, along with grades, which are the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e854	So now we have heard that the Progress Party is basing its policy of level differentiation on an article found on the Internet, with 104 elephants as the basis. I'm a little bit unsure if you can call it research based. But since the representative Thorsen is happily engaged in research-based policy design, I want to challenge her on what concerns characterisation and research. We know that they have been extensively researched in this area by Professor John Hattie on the meaning of 138 different factors for achieving goals and learning outcomes. He has a basis of 50,000 students — up to 83 million elephants are included in this extensive study. What is quite clear and clear is that the significance of the target achievement and learning outcomes is relatively small, not negative. Why does the Progress Party not use this as a basis for assessing whether they want to score on the 5th step?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e861	I must first answer the first part of the question from the representative. It is such that the article has been found on research.no, which is otherwise a serious research website. I see that in other contexts, the Workers' Party and the opposition have used the same website to justify their arguments. So I think in this case, both the questioner and I are on thin ice, if the website is signed. In the case of characterisation, there has been a poor culture in the Norwegian school in terms of feedback. There's something everybody's interested in getting caught up in. So the students learn that the character of e.g. math has been given because you have received an assessment. So it's just an interaction between feedback and grades that will strengthen students in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e869	On Monday when we discussed the Research Communication, we learned that the Progress Party will have a research and knowledge-based policy in most areas, with the exception of climate. Today, we may have learned that there is another area that also belongs to the exceptions when policy is to be research-based. In any case, grades from the fifth stage cannot be said to be research-based and knowledge-based, rather to listen to teachers when eight out of ten teachers say that it is not useful for students to get good feedback. Then I wonder: If the Progress Party in this matter does not listen to research, does not listen to knowledge, does not listen to the teachers: Who have you listened to? Is it Young Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e874	Now it is well that grades are also set in other countries. When I went to high school, I got a number character. There was nothing negative – on the contrary. What we missed then was a good feedback and evaluation. I don't think there was anyone who had hurt by getting grades. As far as research is concerned, it is often the case that we involve ourselves in the research reports that we support, or in which we agree politically. There are things that show that characterization can be good, in combination with a good feedback culture. So one doesn't necessarily exclude the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e881	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e884	Thank you to the rapporteur on the matter for good cooperation in the work on this communication. The most important innovation in Norwegian school needs to be driven by highly skilled teachers. Good dialogue between school and home should help Norwegian students take new professional steps in the future. With the evaluation of the Knowledge Promise, we have been documented that the reverse operation in Norwegian school that was undertaken under Kristin Clemet and Bondevik II government has broad support in Skole-Norway. The reform has largely been continued by today's government. The focus of the new curriculum on basic skills, well-qualified teachers and school leaders and insightful school owners has brought Norwegian school important steps forward. The PISA shock in 2001 led to a completely necessary self-research in Norway. Measures had to be taken to ensure that all Norwegian 15- to 16-year-olds after finishing primary school have such good reading, writing and calculating skills that they can make progress in life. Anything else would be a failure statement for the public school. The Committee points together to a number of challenges in Norwegian school. But the Right is not impressed by the government's ability to meet these challenges. The measures are late, and the government fails to do the most important thing first, bet on teacher competence. One of the main concerns of Højre is the serious teaching shortage that threatens Norwegian school. In the opinion of the Right, GNlST cooperation has not produced enough results. Higher applicants are of little value when many applicants are found not to be qualified and when a significant number fall from education. The transition to the profession is another critical phase, and unfortunately many opt for it here too. Overall, this is bad news for Norwegian students when we know that we need a large number of new teachers in the next few years. The government’s proposal for a teacher’s norm — at a time of great teaching shortage — is also difficult to understand, especially in view of the fact that the ministry itself writes in its consultation notes that there is no evidence that legal regulation of such a ratio is a good tool in the learning of students. Several unskilled teachers are not a contribution to raising the quality of Norwegian school in the future. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left consider that more active steps are needed to prevent teaching shortages and are now asking the Government to implement binding recruitment plans to ensure a sufficient number of qualified teachers in kindergarten and elementary education. I regret that the government parties will not vote in favour of this proposal today. But the opposition's proposal does not stop with this. Together, we have made a series of proposals in response to the fact that the government has not been willing to invest enough in action, both in the short and long term, which will help to improve the quality of Norwegian school. If SSB's predictions fail, hundreds of thousands of students in 2020 may experience being met by temporary workers without education. We can't accept this kind of development. If we are to avoid a major setback for quality in school by 2020, other policy choices are required now. Right will spend the big money on the teachers and make it even more attractive to be a teacher. In the Right’s view, there is clear government neglect when the school’s challenge is no. 1, to get enough trained teachers, hardly mentioned in the big message. We have to search with lights and lights to find half a sentence here and there, and it in a message that contains a number of suggestions that will never be realized without well-qualified teachers. So crucial is the teacher that this should have been made a major part of the message. The right is therefore very pleased that the opposition is united behind many proposals aimed at raising the status of the teaching profession. In addition, the four lots agree that the State must sit in the driver’s seat for this work. Work on the introduction of new career paths at school must be given high priority, and the state must take the bill for the pay supplement to which the new teachers and lecturer specialists qualify. The Council of State often refers to the so-called teacher's reserve of approx. 35,000 teachers in other jobs. But they'll hardly be able to recruit again if there's no carrots in the system. Then we can't help but say that wages will also be important. No one contests the responsibility of the municipality as an employer for the teachers, but it can well be combined with the responsibility of the state for the top funding of new career positions in the school. The right has clear evidence that in Norway in 2030 the teaching profession will be so sought after that the most good students from higher education would like to apply for it. I do not conceal that the Right is inspired by Finland when we propose the transition to a five-year master's programme that includes research work. Nor are we strangers to the idea of recording interviews to ensure that we are motivated and dedicated students who complete the education. Fortunately, several arrows point up and show progress for Norwegian students, but it is still a reality that we are well behind the best countries, which we now find in Southeast Asia. Norwegian school needs to both catch up with students who are struggling and challenge the 'flinkise' more. We're going to be glad that the negative trend in reading and mathematics seems to have turned around in high school, but we're still struggling with an excessive percentage of young people with special education and, unfortunately, poor math results in high school. These are young people who are at risk of becoming part of the non-response statistics, if we are not able to provide more and better-adapted training. «Failure» is a strong word, but it is a betrayal of society when we do not have the power to offer early enough qualified help to students with learning difficulties. The result is that the problems often break down, and the learning outcomes become weak. The right leader, who himself is a dyslexic, said it so well: it goes beyond self-confidence and the whole development of children and young people when they don't experience mastering in the classroom, and it takes them a lot of the ability to learn more. Therefore, today’s school system is extremely harmful when it is not intervened earlier with good help. In this context, the right refers to the proposal for a probationary system in up to 10 municipalities with a more unbureaucratic and school-based PP service to guide and advise the principal and teachers on how to develop the best possible offer for the student where he or she is. It is high time we managed to break with a system that leads to it that Thomas Nordahl mentions as ‘special educational careers’. He is talking about students who get hung in the system because results are not achieved, and he believes the main reason is the lack of quality of the training given to the country's 53 000 special education students. This cannot continue – early efforts must be just that: early efforts and qualified efforts. For several years, the right has called for new GIV measures to be implemented much earlier. Therefore, it is very positive that all secondary school teachers are now to be introduced into the New GIV methodology set. The aim is for all students to receive more practical and motivating training in high school. However, the course in the New GIV cannot replace continuing training leading to increased professional immersion. The right would stress that continuing training rights and obligations should enable teachers to meet national competence requirements. This big message presents a series of proposals to raise the status of the professions and which are far-reaching blue copies of the Høres Vacancies presented in 2010. The rate of non-response is still worrying. More professional correction, more apprenticeships, more flexible running and the right to study competence by letter are all actions Right proposed more than three years ago. The opposition believes that the consideration of the students suggests that we have to set the pace for implementation. We therefore suggest that students who start professionally this fall be able to safely bet on a letter, knowing that they have the right to build up when they arrive in 2016, i.e. in three years' time. The community needs skilled skilled workers, and now it is important to stop jumping off before a letter of formal qualifications. I therefore challenge the government parties to rethink whether this is a proposal to vote in this Chamber today. On the right, it supports the proposed conversion of the subject media and communication, but will ask the Ministry to consider whether the study-preparation programme could better facilitate business practice — for example. for specialised media and communication. To the right, closer contact with school and working life is the way to better education and better workers when the time comes. Study-specification programmes should also improve in the future. After eight years of red-green rule, Right wants to talk more than talk about school. We need results, and we need to speed up the implementation of completely necessary changes. Good teachers are schoolwork no. one. That's why the Right upgrading teacher training so that staff have up-to-date skills and good school insights to prepare their continuing training capacities considerably and develop more decentralised offers, so that more teachers are given the professional depression to meet national skills requirements to equip initial training, for a good start to school is the best starting point we can give our children. Right has many new ideas and better solutions for Norwegian school. I hope that Norwegian voters will notice when there is a choice for the autumn. I am addressing the remaining proposals where the Right is the co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e959	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has addressed the suggestions she referred to. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e964	The representative Aspaker spends a lot of his time talking about teachers — about the professionally strong teachers, about the continuing training of teachers, qualified teachers to replace temporary workers, and good pay for teachers. This costs money – also for the municipalities. A good community economy for all municipalities is a prerequisite for achieving these objectives in and on the sidelines of good action. The right has given promises of billions in tax havens before the next elections. The right holds the cards close to the chest in terms of the municipal economy before the next elections, and in addition, you go in to change the tax regime. Nine out of ten municipalities are going to lose on the tax equalisation change in the municipal economy proposed by the Right. That means that also the local authorities, like Lillehammer and Gjøvik, are going to lose a lot of money on this. Isn't it true that all children deserve good teachers, enough teachers and good teachers regardless of the municipality's tax entrance?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e973	I don't stop wondering that in this room you put up with these calculations, which are an order from the Center Party, done in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs, over a municipal arrangement from the Right that you don't have any assumptions to make calculations about. We have had municipal frames in this eight-year period that have been completely equal to what the government parties have supplied. We're going to make sure that we have a municipal economy in the future that will enable the municipalities to carry out their primary tasks, where the school is one of the most important. I have underlined that in the case of e.g. new career positions in school, the State shall take that bill, and the Right considers that the State should take a greater part of the bill in terms of continuing training for teachers. At all, I think it's a very strange question, which attacks the Right not to be asked for the school. Through our alternative budgets, we have repeatedly highlighted the importance and priority of this area, including when we come to government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e980	The first thing the red-green government did when it took over was to increase the municipal economy by 5 billion. kr. That was awfully good for the school. If someone's surprised that you're nervous about the local economy if the Right is going to take over, I think it's just looking at the story -- we've learned why. Right, write long and panegyric about the teacher. We can agree with each word about how important the teacher is. But if you look at the realities: in addition to fearing a poorer local economy, the Right Difference between heaven and what you may not be able to say on the pulpit of the Stortinget puts into a proposal that you increase the government's share of funding for post-graduate education by 10 pst. There are hardly any estimates that can be close to finding that this will mean the gigantic promise that the Right is trying to make as – a small, marginal change, so that municipalities get a little less expenditure on continuing training, while generally getting a lower economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e987	I understand that the red-greens today are going to try to create a scare image of what kind of future this country is going to have if it becomes a government shift to the harvest, but I'm going to follow very closely what's going on around Norwegian municipalities under the red-green government, and I'm going to say it cut. It's cut in school, it's cut in health, it's cut here and it's cut there. In some municipalities, the County Council is being held because it is not possible to comply with the legislative proposals that this government has put in place, whether in the fruit and vegetables sector, in the care of homeworkers, etc. Then I can reassure the representative Heidi Sørensen that the 10 percent is important, but it's so important that we've signaled that we're going to put the whole system of continuing education into a much more flexible, decentralised school and teacher-oriented system, which means that we're going to get a lot more for that money. It was obtained in Sogn and Fjordane, and it has been allocated to other places, while the state system has gone far too far to air tickets and far too little to further education for teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e994	The right refers to Rambøll in one of its comments, where it states that municipalities with a high degree of financial autonomy prioritise continuing training significantly higher than municipalities with a low financial autonomy. The right-wing representative says she's worried about a two-part division in School-Norway. The central party, like the representative Marianne Aasen, is very concerned about the local right-wing arrangement. It's probably very ok to explain it, but it's actually calculated so that the Right wants to take from 373 municipalities and give to the 55 richest ones. At the same time, the representative says that she wants to spend the large amount of money on the teachers. Is it just teachers in the largest municipalities who are going to enjoy and get better at continuing education, or is it simply a bluff that the Right is trying to throw into the teachers' eyes?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e999	As one of the few parties in this room, we have programmed the right and obligation to continue training, and if there is something we should legislate in the Training Act – as opposed to fruit and green, voluntary homework, etc. – it is empowerment for teachers. Just as we have stated that we need to impose competence requirements on them, we need to establish that we also need a system to ensure that teachers are able to qualify for the skills requirements. Therefore, we are going to make a scheme that is such that all teachers, regardless of the municipality in which they are employed, have the right and the obligation to qualify for the competence required for the step or the subjects in which they teach.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1005	In Troms, the Right in its time approved three private secondary schools with a total of 1,140 student seats. Fortunately, all these schools have been stopped by the red-green government, but if the Right had got its will, about one-fifth of the student seats in Troms would have been privatized. All the private schools were to be located in the town of Tromsø, and all the student places were to be within study-specializing lines. Our fear is that these would have drawn students from the rest of the county, and that they would have serious consequences for district schools. Question no. 1 to the representative Aspaker is therefore: Does the representative Aspaker believe that 1 140 private student places in Troms are only a supplement? And question No. 2: How can the Right guarantee that no public schools will be closed in the districts when so many new private schools are established?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1010	We're following that private schools should be able to be a supplement. We are also followers of the fact that we should be able to say yes to several private schools. We recognize that the students should be able to have a free school choice, but I don't think, like the representative Stine Renate Håheim, that it's going to be a popular migration to the private schools. Right-wing ambition is that high-level schools, including public schools, should be so good and high-quality that there should be no argument for choosing them away. And then I just notice that we're going to have a law that will allow the county council, in this case Troms, to express itself in the future. We're not going to create any more places than we're sure we have a good public offer that's going to be there for those students who want to go to public school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1015	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1018	Let me first, like the others, thank the case rapporteur for a glittering job with an attitude rich in words, rich in details, which contains a lot of good politics, and which it is demanding for a case rapporteur to keep track of. The representative of Håheim has done this in an excellent way. The school shall provide knowledge to absolute all. That's why the government has invested in the primary school. Over eight years in government, we have worked systematically to raise the quality of public school, so that all students will learn more. Efforts on more teachers, better teacher training and more practical and relevant education have produced results. The latest international PISA study shows that Norwegian students have improved in reading, science and mathematics. The arrows are pointing up to Norwegian school. The entire committee also states in its position that the international studies confirm that there has been a trend change in Norwegian school — in stark contrast to our neighbouring country Sweden, where the Right-Registration has privatised the school, increased the differences, and the results have gone in the opposite direction. The government has invested in teachers and teacher training. The result is that record numbers of qualified applicants are now becoming teachers. From 2008 to now, the number of applicants for first choice teacher training has increased by about 50 pst. At the same time, we have created a new and better teacher training and a permanent system for continuing training. Only from 2011 to 2012 increased the number of continuing education by 20 pst. Let me admit that I've been a little grunted for this debate. Especially because I'm not a teacher, and there are many others in this room that are. I have to say that the fact that you have gone to school does not fully compensate. But my meeting with the Norwegian high school and grades was as follows: I thought at first that those who wrote the longest style got the best character. I was very disappointed, as I wrote the longest style and did not get the best grade. I quickly learned that it was the content of the tent. I carded down the style, and it went much better. I've got a bit of the same feeling when we've been working on the setting. It's written long and panegyric, it's written well, but it's the content that counts. And that's the measures that monsters. Actions without money – including in the case of teachers – are not worth much. I am proud that in the 2013 state budget, we introduced a state grant to teacher density, which means 600 new teachers in those high schools that need it the most, the most. There is also a lot we agree on in this setting. The entire committee – and in it there are many Norwegian teachers, as beautifully it is written – ‘will point out that the school is a greenhouse, not just a knowledge-producing enterprise’. It is further written: ‘The Committee will have a school that takes its broad mandate in earnest and provides both education and personal creation for children and young people. The Committee believes that each child is unique and comes to school with his whole life story. Mangfold is one of the school's biggest and most demanding challenges. Therefore, the school is as important as the arena for dialogue and bridge construction where we as individuals and groups are and will be different.’ It's beautiful. At the same time, for me, this is the main reason for the privatisation of the school and for the involvement of the community. We stopped what was the right-hand privatisation experiment when we took over in 2005. That was an increase of 50 pst. in the number of private school places in primary school and an increase of 150 pst. in secondary. We stopped this release, and I am infinitely happy that we did. In order to increase learning outcomes, we have also expanded the hours in mathematics, Norwegian and English at childhood. From 2010, we introduced free lessons learning as an important learning measure. Studies show that 83 pst. of the parents are satisfied with the scheme and that there are families with low income and families with a minority background who make the most of the scheme. The evaluation of others has shown cracking results, including in terms of the ability of the teaching aid to participate and smooth differences. I'm sure the homeworker has come to stay. We who have children in the Right-steered Osloskolen, look at homework as a matter of course. Are we on target? Is everything perfect? No, there are a lot of jobs to do. One of the things I'm most concerned about for the school of the future is that we're going to assume that we're going to meet the whole human being, and that we're going to give our kids not only knowledge, but also creativity. I think I'm the most parent. When my daughter started school last fall, my interest in school grew dramatically. It also made me come over someone named Sir Kenneth Robinson, who is a writer and lecturer, and who works with education, creativity and innovation. His main point is that in the future creativity will be as important as knowledge, and that the school must give the creative subjects the same status as the knowledge school. Robinson tells a story from a lesson in drawing, where a little girl, who is not particularly good at the theoretical subjects, sits very engrossed. The teacher asks, what are you drawing? Then the girl says, "I'm drawing a picture of God." But no one knows what God looks like, says the teacher. They'll know in five minutes, says the girl. Children are not normally afraid to make mistakes. If they don't know the answer, they're trying to figure out. I'm afraid we have a school where we teach our kids to be afraid to make mistakes. If they go through school and lose the ability to make mistakes, and, on the other hand, develop a capacity that makes them afraid to make mistakes, we've done something seriously wrong with creativity. Picasso once said that all children are born artists; the problem is to remain artists when we grow up. It is very good that the communication addresses the need to strengthen training in practical and aesthetic subjects, and that the Committee shares the wish that these subjects should have high school status. It is also positive that the Committee stresses the importance of the good competence of teachers in these subjects. Robinson tells another story, about Gillian Lynne. She's a choreographer and she's set up "The Phantom of the Opera." Gillian attended school in the 1930s and was a really hopeless child. She got a letter with her parents saying that she had serious learning difficulties, and that she had to go to a specialist. Mom took Gillian to the specialist and sat and talked there. After 20 minutes, the specialist told Mom that they would go out a little. On the way out he put on music. When they came out, they looked at Gillian through the glass pane into the office. The little child danced and moved after the music. The specialist said to the mother: Mrs. Lynne, Gillian is not sick, Gillian is a dancer. Take her to a dance school. Gillian told me what it was like to come to a dance school where she met children who were like her, who couldn't sit still, who had to move to think. Gillian became a dancer at The Royal Ballet in London, started his own dance company, met Andrew Lloyd Webber and is today responsible for some of the world's most successful musical productions. She has entertained millions and has become multimillionaire. Other specialists would have asked her to calm down--and give her medicine. I note that the opposition is also dismayed at the fact that people with professional letters should be able to enter engineering training. Those with professional letters, such as: have become an electrician or plumber, who may be about 20 years old and go out and earn relatively well, yet has the motivation that you know what, I'll sit on the school bench and take some tough years. These students should compete for Norwegian higher education. Fortunately, some have started and have facilitated – through the Y-way – good offers for these among our most motivated students. Colleges should compete to get these students in the future. My daughter is about to finish 1st grade, and I see traces of the fear of making mistakes. She's six years old and crying when the faults are there. I think the counting edge, screening and testing school is facing challenges if it's going to be able to create and promote creativity for the future. Clearly, the knowledge focus has been correct. At the same time, we want those who are now in the first class to enter the labour market in 2030. Maybe then creativity has become as important as knowledge. I don't know. According to UNESCO, in the next 30 years, as many young people will be trained as the number of people who have been trained from the morning until today. What does education do? I don't know. Maybe it has the smaller value when everyone has it. Maybe creativity has become as important as knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1063	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1066	SV often claims to be for inclusion. They set up three out of four deaf schools, at the same time voting against the proposals of the Progress Party to open up the young schools with a desire and competence to offer sign language as one of the electoral subjects in high school, a proposal that will contribute to the better social integration of deaf and hearing-impaired students and by the same social group. My question is therefore: why does the representative Sørensen not want to support better integration and social inclusion of deaf and hearing-impaired students in Norwegian school today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1075	Thank you for a good question. We want all students to be seen. Everyone will meet the challenges they face and be well integrated into Norwegian school. This is why, of course, training in deaf language should be offered when you start school and have that challenge. We have not voted in favour of a proposal to make it an electoral subject, simply because it does not fit into the electoral concept. On average, a normal school will have only one deaf student every twenty-three years. I am more concerned that the students will meet where they are, rather than press this into an electoral concept. I myself went to a class with a deaf student – in high school – and have seen the challenges associated with it. We didn't learn sign language that time. I see that the school has, fortunately, come further than that at the time. I believe that facilitating daily training is the right and important answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1086	I record that the representative says she is proud that the government has given more money to teacher training. I am also proud that the Progress Party has made sure to grant even more in its alternative state budget. That's one thing. Money isn't really everything. It also has to do with how to organise things, whether we are willing to take advantage of the technology of the future or of the present, in order to get good training for teachers. Why will SV not be involved in introducing more flexible continuing training schemes for teachers? We have examples of municipalities where they are trained three to four times as many on their own educational pathways as is the state option. It shows that the legislation we have today is simply too rigid. The question then becomes as follows: What is the reason why SV will not introduce more flexible arrangements for continuing training of teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1093	Let me say to the first part of the question that it's very recognizable. It is probably not one thing – perhaps with one or two exceptions – we can stand in this Chamber and debate where, of course, the Progress Party in its alternative budget has not granted more money than the government has done. I guess we're used to that. I am not completely familiar with the representative's problem description related to continuing training. The race from the state side is good and quality assured. It hasn't been that we have systematically rejected any race other than the state. At the same time, it is important that we are sure that there is a high quality of what the state assumes financial responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1100	I have children in school, and I can comfort the representative that the creativity and ability to fail does not diminish. The challenge is that they become much more creative in defense of their mistakes. But I want to go to something else. The training aid has now been evaluated. NOVA has had a review, and that evaluation is not very much to enjoy. One is now trapped in rigid rules for how to use the toying aid, and that is not what gives the good results. For SV, it must be particularly sad that NOVA concludes that the government’s lesson-making aid does not help to reduce social differences — perhaps even across the board. How will SV now ensure a more flexible learning aid system, in line with the wishes of schools and teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1109	It was good to hear the descriptions from schools that are not the one my child sucks to – the Oslo School – but others. If you learn to be proud and defend your mistakes elsewhere, I think it's a healthy starting point. Lesson help: We want to make the scheme more flexible. At the same time, I think there are many paradoxes in that evaluation. Minority children use it more than others, children of low school parents use it more than others, and at the same time you also have the findings that say it doesn't necessarily help balance differences. In Oslo School, homework is a matter of course. I think the flexibility that will mean that you can't have homework in 1st grade – where I think most people agree that it has the least value – but using those hours more effectively up the steps is a sensible way. I'm sure homework has come to stay. It's going to be more teaching help even further up the steps than less in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1119	SV has usually been very busy having an inclusive school, a school where everyone can attend, and didn't want to have special schools for anyone who doesn't fit into the squares. That's why we're always amazed when over many years now we've tried to get into a commitment plan with clear dates for when we're going to have schools that are organized for everyone, so it's possible to go to a regular school even if you, for example. uses wheelchair to enter the classroom. Why is it so impossible for SV to agree to create such an obligating plan with date fixing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1124	It's been seven years since you had a review where you made an obligating plan for universal design of all public buildings. I remember that as a very demanding work. I also remember a sum of it – I can't take it in my head – which is very costly. I think the right answer is that everyone wants it, and you've also given priority to building where especially young people are going to be able to get universally organized first. We know that there are things left there that are such a boost that there has been no room to put it in place. I don't think that's the way it's planned. I think that plan is there, I think it's about implementation. It is about ensuring that school owners have sufficient resources to prioritise this in their budgets. The universal design plan is there, but it is about giving it a heavy enough priority in the current budget to get it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1131	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1134	The name of the paper we have for processing today is striking. Norwegian school is ‘on the right track’. Seven years after the launch of the reform, the Knowledge Lift points the arrows for Norwegian school upwards. Students do better in the international tests of TIMSS and PIRLS compared to peers in other countries. Norwegian primary school students have improved in reading, mathematics and natural sciences at both childhood and early childhood. We are seven years into the reform. The first students who have received training under the Knowledge Lift are not out of 10th grade until 2016. So if we now have a research-based evaluation of the reform, we will not be able to measure the impact of all the actions undertaken before 2016. In addition, measures have been taken at youth level this period of which we have not been able to measure the impact until 2019. We know that there are too many people who do not complete secondary education with passed exams or diplomas. These are young adults born early in the 1990s who started school around the introduction of the 6-year reform. That's when we thought most of it was in Norwegian school. It wasn't. The arrows went down in the 2000s. Now it's the opposite. The arrows point upwards in the international tests for today's 4th grade, and I think it will have a great impact on the implementation in the years to come. I believe that the strengthening of literacy and mathematics education and the introduction of a more flexible secondary school with an electoral and occupational competence will also be important. I was a little surprised yesterday when I read the press release from the opposition quartet. The representatives were very pleased that they agreed that the teacher was important. The representative Aspaker expressed ‘Everything in school starts with the teacher’. And not only that, the representative Skei Grande, who has ambitions to become Norway’s next minister of knowledge, said, ‘It’s not very attractive to be a teacher in Norwegian school today’. I don't know where that study came from, but at a time when we want more teachers, not less, I think it's very unwise to say. I also think it's a demeaning statement for the thousands of teachers who work at school today, and who think it's the most attractive, best and most meaningful job you can have. The center party fully agrees that the teacher is important, but for us, the teacher is not the most important thing in the school. For us, the students are the most important. To turn the representative Aspaker’s words to ‘centre party’: everything in school starts with the students. The students are our focus in designing school policies for the future. How can we get all students to learn to master and go to primary and secondary education and get out after 13-14 years with evidence of acquired competence? Obviously the teacher plays an important role here, but only in interaction with other important framework factors can the teacher do a good job. Everyone agrees that the teacher is important. Everyone wants to give them the opportunity to develop and become more competent through the possibility of continuing training. But what we haven't been good enough to do is put the system and the framework conditions in order to get them to do a good job. It is not just about the teacher's professionalism, but it is about school management, home-school cooperation, other occupational groups entering school, physical work, equipment, etc. And it's about having time for teaching. In this case, the requirements for documentation through evaluation, screening and national tests — even some local tests and international tests — are important for the job they are going to do. In the opinion of the Centre Party, there is more than enough testing now. Now it has to be focused on making use of the information provided by the test regime and rather attenuating the controller. We believe that the system has not focused enough on the student. This applies, for example: the organisation, structure and alignment of professional and hourly distribution. The system has been concerned with effective implementation, with everyone learning at the same time and in the same way. It's the most economically effective thing. But kids are as different as us adults. Because students are different, we believe it is obvious that students go in common classes – together in an inclusive common school. We believe that the students learn more, that is, get better education, and that they learn wider, that is, get better education, in a community of different people. This approach is supported by all research. Students no longer learn in homogeneous groups, and therefore we believe that permanent level differentiation is a bad idea. I see in yesterday's press release from the opposition that the 'quartet' is very fond of the Minister of Knowledge's mention of changes that the announcement initiates for high school, as the most extensive in 20 years. I don't know what they thought was so funny, but I can't see that there have been significant changes – for the benefit of students – in the structure of the profession since Reform 94 was introduced almost 20 years ago. And then I asked why it hasn't been done anything before. And why was it not done when the Knowledge Promise was designed? Many people are now talking about the need to re-establish the status of professionals. It's strange it wasn't done before. I am pleased that the Committee is gathering on most of the measures proposed by the government to change the professions. It is a strength for further work on implementation. Through the evaluation, we have received clear feedback that the changes made to the supply structure neither increased implementation nor improved recruitment. Wider entries and fewer programme areas that came with the Knowledge promise have had no impact on students’ choice of education, level of throughput or attainment of competence at a normal time. After the promise of knowledge, however, we have seen a development in which more and more of the students are applying for Vg3. As we know, this has led to even more people not being able to complete with a diploma or study qualification. Half of the students cancel. This ‘third road’ does not come mainly because students do not get an apprenticeship, but because they want to get a specialization of their studies, because they think they need it in order to be able to move on in the education system later. It's not like that. One of the most important measures we are now taking is to ensure that everyone who has a letter of formal notice is entitled to a supplement. This means that we're expanding the right to secondary education, and that those who want to, can now bring them in preparatory after the exam. In addition, we are very pleased that several exchange models will be possible. These provide room for previous specialisation, and they provide the opportunity to combine school and enterprise to a greater extent than programs for immersion do, already from Vg1. So those who know they're going to be plumbers can now start in an enterprise already from Vg1. At the same time, those who become early apprentices can experience being in a class environment a little longer. It can also be a motivating gain in youth. So a better exchange between the enterprise and the school could increase both the motivation and the learning outcomes for the students. The most important thing for the Central Party in its work on this message has been to get a more flexible system, as in the secondary school message. We've focused on students being different, learning different and having different assumptions. We can't all be dancers at the top of the world. And we can't expect everyone to master a lot of languages or be good at advanced mathematics. But we're going to give every student a good foundation, and we owe the students a good foundation so that we can cultivate what they're good at. I am happy to have had the opportunity to sit on the Education Committee these four years, and I am happy to have been in a cooperation that has changed Norwegian school. Not least, we have made changes so that more students can experience mastering and enjoy school life. Seeing the effect of the grips that have been done will take time. But it's good to end the four-year period and know that we've put the students in the center. I think more people now will have the opportunity to succeed with their goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1168	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1171	I choose to ask the representative Tingelstad Wøien about the same thing as I asked the SV representative about, when Tingelstad Wøien also spoke about an inclusive common school. The argument against our proposal from Sørensen's representative was that sign language did not fit into the electoral system, and that all students should in any case be seen and met in school. Then I choose to ask: is it more important to maintain this system that prevents you from offering an electoral profession than actually offering an electoral profession to those who need it? And: How are these students to be seen and met in a better way with the necessary skills, when we see that it is not being done today, and that the government is not taking any action to improve this inclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1180	That is a good question the representative Hanekamhaug asks. With regard to the offer to those who are deaf today, they may have sign language as the second foreign language. You can choose it in high school today, there's one offer. Then I also see that it can obviously be a good idea to be able to offer electoral skills in sign language like 2nd foreign language. But offering it already from the fall of 2013 will be a little fast. There's no curriculum developed. But I know that there is cooperation between the Special Schools and the Ministry of Knowledge, and I am sure that in that cooperation they can continue to work on the proposal that the Advance Party has promoted today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1187	Eastern Toten municipality with Centerparti-Rapporteur Hans Seierstad in the head made some important priorities, they thought, in their school. They cut some arrangements to increase basic staffing in school. One of the arrangements they took away was homework on the 1st to the 4th stage. It was also fruit and some such things. This resulted in the County intervened and said that we cannot have it, this needs to be corrected. The rapporteur said, ‘We have challenged the Training Act against the local political space’, and that is a good sentence. It's a good theme that I thought the Center Party was concerned about, and that we're concerned about. But now they're asked to introduce it as, for example, has now been evaluated not to work, i.e. teaching aids for 1st and 2nd classes. What does Tingelstad Wøien think about that happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1196	I think it is good that the training law works, because it is not without reason that we make training law. I also think the Right is concerned that if there are things that we want the municipalities to give priority to, then we make a law or regulation for what the municipality is going to follow. Looking at the economic situation in the Eastern Toten municipality, I think I'm getting a little special. I don't know exactly how they've spent their money. I know they've been building up and cleaning up all their schools. However, I still believe it is important that the Training Act works, and that we insist that Eastern Toten should also provide homework from 1st to 4th grade – now with a more flexible solution for that. Then I also hope that we can come back later to offer homework help even for higher steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1205	I want to follow up with Harberg, because there are a number of municipalities that have had such priorities. For example, a number of left-wing municipalities have: wanted to give more teachers priority to the use of fruit and vegetables. They've had more teaching positions in school, but they've been given ready packaging by state authorities that it's not allowed to prioritize teachers instead of fruit and vegetables. Then Mr. Tingelstad Wøien claimed that the school was being talked down when you pointed out the government's policy errors. This has become the new rhetoric, and it says something about a majority board that, after eight years, almost starts to get authoritarian moves when they refuse to criticize the opposition – and they say that you necessarily talk something down. I can give Tingelstad Wøien a simple number that I have from the Federation of Education: that number is 37 000. 37 000 is the number of those who are trained teachers in Norway today, but who do not want to work as teachers. At the same time, we know that we have many unskilled students in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1220	I didn't get to know if there was any question, but I'm amazed at the line that both the Christian People's Party and the Left have put on when it comes to being opponents of fruit and green in school. Today, there's a system for the first step to the 10th step in school. I can't believe that there's any difference between offering fruit and green at school to a limited number of students and learning at the same time. We know today that there are a lot of people who don't eat school food, and there's a lot of people throwing their food packages. Fruit and vegetables, I think, are a good contribution to the students at school. I think it is amazing that the representative from the Left is against a fruit and green scheme and – even – that you need to have more physical activity in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1225	First, I want to thank you for what I experienced as a positive response that demands the hope of getting sign language into high school. One thing that amazes me, which before the other representative was in charge, is physical activity at school – all government parties say they want more physical activity. Nevertheless, they are voting against this proposal by the Progress Party on the grounds that it will cost money. But politics is a priority, and the government found room for priority of 180 million. kr for cultural school provision at school. My question, then, is whether this priority, that is, cultural school time instead of hours of physical activity, is anchored in a research-based approach to what gives the best learning for the students, or whether there are other ideological reasons that underlie this priority from the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1234	As far as I know, this Document 8 proposed by the representatives of the Progress Party earlier this year on the introduction of physical activity – an hour of increase at all stages – was not intended to be introduced until 2014. There was no money for what it was in the long run. We think physical activity in school is good, and we've said that we want more physical activity in school, but we think it must be possible to do it within the current framework. Then we must not forget that the cultural school is not just horn music, the cultural school is dance and painting and everything that is. There could be movement in a part of the cultural school. I think we forget that very often. I stand with a very right back when it comes to not adding an hour of extra physical activity at all stages, when those who promote the proposal, have not even added money to it in their own budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1241	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1244	Unfortunately, it is a fact that initial training does not give all students a good enough return. This has major consequences and is an important reason for the dropout we see in high school. As stated in the Communication: ‘The half of today’s unemployed have not completed secondary education, and one in four with primary schools with unskilled upper secondary education.’ The Christian People's Party is pleased with several of the steps proposed in the communication. We believe, among other things: it is a good idea to provide the county council with extended scope for action in order to establish flexible and adapted training courses. One of the points of the Christian People's Party is particularly pleased that there has been an agreement in the committee is the emphasis on the broad social mandate of the school. From Jon Lilletun's day, the Christian People's Party's mantra in school policy has been that the school should both form and train people at once. When the promise of knowledge was adopted under the Bondevik II government, it was based on a broad recognition that you never have the right to take a break and settle down the fact that the students have weak basic skills and skills in reading, writing and billing. It's the school's education mandate. At the same time, I believe that the results of PISA and other tests are too much allowed to make the main premise for educational policy priorities. The problem is that it is not the broad social mandate of the curriculum that is used for the tests, but among other things. The OECD's more rigid economic approach to what is important. School Needs a Wider View of Knowledge The entire committee is taking forward Unesco's 'The Four Pillars of Education' to counter a narrow and one-sided economical knowledge vision. All training must rest on four supports: ‘Learning to know’ — knowledge and knowledge ‘Learning to do’ — skills and practical action ‘Learning to live together’ — community and social competence ‘Learning to be’ — personality and character development. Swallow one of the pillars, weaken the equilibrium, and make the Norwegian school confused like the sloping tower in Pisa. I do not support a unilateral school policy focus on target management and knowledge, requirements and control. School is a greenhouse, not just a knowledge-producing enterprise. We want to have a school that takes this broad building mandate seriously and gives children and young people both education and personal creation. Each child is – as several have read from the setting – unique and comes to school with his whole life story. That's why not everyone fits into an A4 school. The diversity is one of the largest and perhaps the most demanding challenges of the school. This is why the school is as important as the arena for dialogue and bridge construction, where we as individuals and groups are and will be different – also in private schools, as a visit to the representative from SV. That is why the fight against bullying must be won again and again every day, through nine-time, systematic work. Therefore, greater variation between theoretical and practical learning modes is needed. This is why the school needs not only teachers but also access to, for example: environmental therapists and increased health oyster competence. This consensus we now have about the building element in the school assignment, commits. It obliges us to have two thoughts in our head at once. The school should both form and educate people at times. A tool to achieve this is the purpose paragraph that Stortinget assembled in 2008. The primary task of the school is to make all children and young people winners in their own lives. Being recognised and appreciated is the key to motivation, job satisfaction and sense of dignity. For a time, among other things, health nurses report increasing student stress as a result of tough performance pressures, it is necessary to raise what Professor Tom Tiller calls a zero vision in terms of young people's broken self-image. Therefore, in the Christian People's Party, we believe that the promise of knowledge must be backed up by a vow of merit. Much more attention must be paid to the importance of the school's purpose paragraph at all levels of everyday school life. Just as the basic skills are to be included in all disciplines and require all teachers, so in practice and on a broad scale, continuous updating of Norway’s heritage and tradition and the common values of the Paragraph of Purpose in everyday life – respect for human dignity and nature, freedom of the mind, love of neighbor, forgiveness, equality and solidarity. We therefore propose that the Stortinget ask the government to promote a plan to better integrate the purpose paragraph into all subjects and at all levels of the school. One of the points on which there has been a dispute is the Ministry's proposal to draw up a new general part of the curriculum. In the media, the representative of Aasen has said that our fear that SV has threatened the Christian heritage and has hidden purposes is both to believe in ghosts – and I can say that the Christian People's Party does not believe in – and directly unreasonable. To put it carefully: our fear has been quite timely, and unfortunately is built on eight years of experience with an SV-led department of knowledge. It started with the matter of on-board prayer in school, so changing the KRL to RLE, changing the purpose paragraph and trying to strangle the private school law. These matters have clearly shown that if the Storting had not reacted and changed what SV had wanted, and as they had suggested, the result would have been quite different. We would have had a ban on prayer in school, we would have had an even stronger weakening of Christianity in the RLE subject, we would have had a weaker connection with our Christian cultural heritage in the purpose section, and a private school law that would mean the hook at the door of many Christian hospitals. When the department came and asked for a blank permit to change the general part of the curriculum, ‘so that it more clearly reflects changes in school and society’, there was good reason to be concerned. That is why we are pleased that in the Grand Duchy we have once again managed to point out a direction for the future, that renewal must build on and continue the main elements and fundamental vision of today's general part. The new purpose paragraph points out that the Christian and humanist cultural and value tradition should continue to have special emphasis on the work of the school, while also highlighting the multicultural and multi-religious as an important part of the school's work. The renewed general part of the curriculum shall be based on this value-based foundation in the purpose paragraph and shall elaborate on how it is understood. A renewed general part of the curriculum shall point out that one of the most important tasks of initial training is to contribute to the raising of these values more clearly. These must be put into practice both in professional education and in the learning environment in all schools and at all stages: respect for human dignity and nature, freedom of spirit, neighbourliness, forgiveness, equivalency and solidarity, which are good values in our purpose paragraph. The proposal to allow students with a degree letter to start straight on individual studies is the Christian People's Party against. We see that there are good intentions to get this done, but we also see that this, which is characterized by many on Twitter as the #wrong path instead of the message's name, can help to lead to more people not being able to complete. Because what's so brilliant about the Y way is that you get an organized education to take back those who have had a different basis on a higher level. That's why we want to develop the Y path, which means more respect for where they are. Then we have a great deal of concern that this can lead to an increased theorization in the vocational education we have, that they should be qualified to be able to go straight to higher education. We're going to follow this closely, if it's not like the government parties are turning around. Finally, I went to a primary school with a large and complex student group. I remember an entire class that voluntarily took sign language at primary school just in order to communicate with their fellow students. The fact that the secondary schools could be allowed to offer sign language as an electoral subject if they need it and want to do so, I do not understand that the government parties will not participate. I am addressing the suggestions in this setting and in a whole bunch of other settings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1304	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1309	Thank you to the representative, Mr Eriksen, for a very good report, and also for a very good cooperation within the committee, on which the representative was present. It is well time to reveal to eager listeners that part of the comments that the Committee has made on this issue of greenhouses, wide-ranging learning vision and creativity comes from the Christian People's Party. I want to say that the representative Eriksen is very generous in continuing his legacy after Lilletun to form and train people at once. So my question is, how does this harmonize with the wishes of the Right Party and the Advance Party for more level-sharing in school, more testing, transparency about results that can lead to ranking, and grades in high school? I cannot best understand why the Christian People's Party has chosen to cooperate with the Right and the Advance Party, and I would like to hear why.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1318	When the promise of knowledge came, we were in cooperation with the Right, and then probably their main focus was reading, writing and billing. When it comes to the element of formation in this setting, you will see quite good formulations and Christian People's Party tracks. That's what I think might be the good combination with Right Policy. It's not all of these measures that the representative mentions, I think is good, but the right's good focus on learning, knowledge, reading, writing and billing – because we also think that's important – combined with the broad educational element in school that's about learning to be people and learning to be together, actually gives a pretty good school. So I think we're going to be able to get this done. And then the representative, who has now worked with me for a while, knows that it's not all things we give ourselves very easily of what we disagree about. I would also like to reply to the rapporteur: thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1327	I also agree with the representative, Stine Renate Håheim, that it is a pleasure to listen to Dagrun Eriksen from the pulpit when she expresses a very broad vision of knowledge, and takes up values that are very important in the growth of children in order for them to become gangsters and manage a quite demanding reality that awaits them out there. Among other things, the representative Eriksen mentioned this with increased student pressure and children who experience self-restraint because there is demanding schooling for many, and how they experience it. But yet I am amazed that the Christian People's Party, despite Eriksen's good experience of working with the Right, goes openly and honestly into cooperation with the Progress Party, which has a market view at school, and which strongly argues in this hall for grades in high school, that very small children will get a number of their skills. What does Dagrun Eriksen think about that situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1336	Now it's not like we've gone into an open relationship with the Progress Party, but we have a door on the ice. Kindergarten grades we think is a bad idea. In fact, the voters – at least it looks like this side of the summer – are going to give a new majority and not give the red-green new trust. That means that those who agree with the emphasis that the Christian People's Party wants for the school must vote yellow – on the Christian People's Party – if that is what they want to shape the new school policy. We see that there are challenges, and then we also see that in other things, which we're not so satisfied with at the red-greens, we're going to get more for cooperation with the right-hand side. It is about volunteering, family policy, and it is also about better arrangements for small and medium-sized enterprises and other issues that are important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1345	I chose to quote from the setting – I thought I knew what the original quote was. I have listened carefully to the representative's reply to the previous two lines – first of all, the representative says that she believes it is good with a combination of the Right and Christian People's Party, because the Right stands for knowledge and the Christian People's Party for a broader view. It kind of surprises me. Isn't it better to cooperate with someone who stands for something that is much more like the whole of the Christian People's Party – knowledge and a broader learning vision – that will be naturally native to the red-greens? And then, in his next answer, the representative says that there are other policy areas that make the Christian People's Party keep the door open for the Progress Party in this context. But is the representative ready to say that had it been up to school policy, had the Christian People's Party been more naturally based on the red-green side? The setting should at least tell it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1355	It has taken quite a while for me to agree to these sentences on a broad mandate. I'm very glad it came now before we split up. That means that I also believe that this can be implemented in a new policy. But is it the school policy that is crucial – that here we would really be red-green? No, we've been pretty much opposed to the red-green priority in school policy, because what we experience as the red-green big project is making a full-day school. We do not want that. We don't think that's the right way to make school. Then we should have gone for a cooperation in that direction, there would have been quite many and big problems to get it done. That's what it's like to be a center party. There are things we think are good with the red-green, and there are things we think are good with the right-hand side. As of today, we've made a decision that it's the right side we want to go to elections with, and then the voters know very clearly that they now have an opportunity to participate in and influence a new government, and what matters and what angle, even on the fundamentals of knowledge in school, they will support.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1364	I'm also going to follow up the exact same thing, because we're also busy with the setting. As I experience the Christian People's Party – or have experienced the Christian People's Party throughout this four-year period – I feel that the Center Party and the Christian People's Party are quite close in school policy. I can't understand how the Christian People's Party wants to work together – sail if you say we don't give up and we're wrong. Here it's not about, as in the past, a government with only the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, but you have a great Advancement Party as well. Then it's about level differentiation, grades in high school, private school law, and not just that, you'll get a completely different community arrangement. I can't believe and understand that it makes more sense than doing as the red-green government has actually done: early work, changes in high school, as the representative has wanted, changes in the professions, as the representative of the Christian People's Party has wanted. You may be allowed to explain it again from the Christian People's Party, but to me it is totally incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1373	The President just wants to remind you that all the speeches are to be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1376	How large the parts are after the election and how the composition is going to be is a little bit difficult to predict now. The centre party does not understand our cooperation – I also believe that very many of the members of the centre party do not fully understand their cooperation now. It's a big worry. There are a lot of things that we're experiencing that the Center Party and we're together about, for example. this full-day school mindset that SV and the Workers' Party are pushing on, which we have experienced that the Centre Party has not wanted. Then the representative brings forward two other issues, the high school message and the professional subjects. The right side was very much for the changes that were made in the high school message, and it is the Right that has provided a professional boost, which has also had part of the proposals that we are dealing with today. So saying that everything is black and white and that the sky is on one side -- it's not like that. We're going to make a safe choice on our point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1385	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1388	The left laid the foundations of the common public school. I want to draw up two main points that have been important for the Left in school history. When we created the common public school, the community was important. It was important that the housekeeper’s daughter and the priest’s son were on the same school bench, and it was important to see the whole person. I think I've mentioned it before, that there were quite radical thoughts at the time that all people were going to learn, for example. to read and write and calculate, sail if they might never hold in a sheet. But the fact that music was also introduced as a subject, I think was an important part of the knowledge on which the Left School was based, where you should see the whole human being and not just the little academic child. Everything in school starts with the teacher. Based on our analysis of the main challenge in Norwegian school, the lack of teachers and the high use of unskilled is one of the main challenges we can define. If we are to do something about it, we must first build a new teacher training at the bottom – based on a five-year teacher training with well-integrated practice. We must have a right and an obligation to continue training. We need to put in place a certification system that is linked to that right and obligation and that is involved in increasing the status of the profession. We want relief by getting more groups of professionals into school. The left has now proposed 1,000 new health sisters in the last seven budgets – I think it is – and we are happy that the government is on its way. To contribute to the kind of professional groups we think we are helping to get more teachers back. We want to cut the red tape. We have had a time-use message here in Stortinget that has had no effect other than an interim report in special education – and no great effort to cut red tape. And we need to have more teachers who are today educated as teachers, back into professional practice as teachers. I'm really glad that a lot of the things that left has been talking about for years are starting to get more and more in the hall. I am perhaps most pleased that the proposal that we dealt with two months ago on career paths for teachers, which was voted down with bragging and bram, now suddenly has the whole opposition's support. This means that national meetings can be healthy for someone and everyone. I am very happy that we have received so much support for that idea. I also notice that right into the government is now beginning to see that the system of homework, which we were very critical to when it was introduced, does not work as it should, and that much greater freedom of action locally to organize this, could be a solution where you could have achieved exactly the students you're about to reach. In the professional field, there's a lot of good work from the government, but there's also a part that we disagree with. First of all, we believe that practical letters should be a searchable way to choose to take the education. I'm very surprised at the grips on the media and communication, where you're so tough that you can't look at different solutions for a line in relation to the challenges you're facing. I'm a liberal. That means I really like people who don't fit into squares. I really like it when we're able to build systems around people, instead of trying to get people to fit into systems. That's why the Left Party and the Christian People's Party have promoted the idea of media and communication, that a hybrid should have been created between the two main directions, which could allow this subject to evolve in the right width. It has received very much support in the trade union environment. I have received a lot of enquiries in the last few days, which is just about those who are working on this subject, it seems to be a good idea. I am sorry that we do not receive broad support today. It is usually possible that someone turns during the day. Strengthening the profession is also about a much more active country, including in bringing in apprentices. If you're going to prioritize your professional skills, you're not going to think that they're going to be exactly the same as the more academic ones. This basic belief that the academic course is worth more than the professional course, and that it is therefore very important to get a professional course to look like an academic course, I believe that it is written down both the academic course and the professional course. Saying that everything is equal is about giving nothing value. That's why the left has the position that we have in terms of these grips. I think what you're doing now is saying that everything is equal regardless of whether you've had three or twelve hours of math in school, will disqualify both the academic course and the practical runs. So I think we need to do a lot of special education, and I'm really glad that we've got a lot of support to try out new things to red tape special education. The way we organize special education has some basic negative features. One thing is the red tape of it, the other is hunted for a diagnosis related to children, and the third is that you get help too late in school. The fourth, as I might think, is the most negative, is that teachers who fight to get extra resources for their students need to focus a lot on what those students don't fix. There are problems among students who become the focus of an application for special education, and I believe that students – at least the students we are talking about here – need to hear what they can. But it's almost dangerous for a teacher to write in an application, because it argues against the resources that the same teacher wants for that student. This is a basic negative spiral. We have to try out new ways of ensuring the legal certainty of our children and ensure that they get the resources they need, maybe make more positive spirals around them, and not least get into the course so early that they actually get a real help, don't have the most special education at the end of high school. So we see in the left it's important to have a school for everyone, a school where everyone has the opportunity to participate fully. That's why we're going to be on in terms of universal design. The rebuilding is expensive, it has the representative Sørensen right in, but planning for universal design is nothing more expensive than other solutions. Having good, wise architects and good, wise painters for what are good solutions to make sure everyone can use a building, doesn't make it more expensive. But it requires that you have it on the agenda, it requires that you give it a high priority, and that you have skills at all levels to get it through. That's why we're going to stand firm on our universal design goal. The last one is the sign language. I believe that we are not receiving support for this proposal today, almost breaking the message of language that we dealt with in the previous period, for which I was the rapporteur. In that language message it is determined that sign language is an official language in Norway, in line with the other minority languages we have. It requires that we treat it in such a way that it has the opportunity to develop as a language. This means that it should be as common to take sign language as an electoral subject or as a foreign language in different parts of the education cycle, if you have friends or associations with sign language as your main language. It is not that more children can have operations that help them to be partially heard will eliminate the need for sign language. It's very important to remember that these children are bilingual, and this is a bilingualism where it's important to bet on people getting the opportunity to develop the first language. Sign language is an exciting language, which I think we should have had many more steps to do more everyday – get it into Norwegian school and Norwegian community life in general. This is a group that we should have had a lot more focus on, and I would have thought that getting it into the language message as an official language would give it much more status than what we've been able to implement. But we're going to be at every opportunity to do it in the future. Then I will end by addressing the proposals that may remain after this decade of inclusion of proposals. At least there is energy and desire to change in this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1411	There are still some proposals, and those proposals have now been taken up by the representative of Trine Skei Grande. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1416	The representative Skei Grande spoke of her wanting to red tape the school. Feedback from teachers, to whom we listen, is that we spend too little time teaching and too much time reporting. These are things I can agree with. I have also registered that the representative Skei Grande has a burning desire to take up the Ministry of Church and Education – it's no longer called it, it's called it in the old days – I mean the Ministry of Knowledge. There's also a lot of respect for having these types of ambitions. What I would recommend is a small practical space. The most bureaucratic part of Norwegian school is in Oslo. Here we have seven extra samples to report on, and otherwise a very rigid reporting system. Would it not have been a good idea to have a place of practice with free access to a political government that is blue and green, in Oslo, to start the job of red tape there before possibly targeting the Ministry of Knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1423	I have disagreed with the bureaucracy that has been in Oslo School. It has presided over the Right and Advance Party Town Council. Now the Progress Party has been replaced with the Left in the City Council. That means that a new City Council statement was made. That urban council statement states that red tape is to be restored. I expect Torger Ødegaard to do so when he has been told by the Left to do so. If you don't, I'll take care of you.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1428	The representative Skei Grande was within the broad learning vision and what I want to call Left's proud story about that in Norwegian school policy. Then it's exciting to read the setting, because the Left does not agree with the Right Party and the Advance Party in a number of important direction choices for the school neither in terms of grades, in terms of level differentiation, nor in terms of new Norse. My question is a follow-up to the question put by the representative Sørensen, because it may seem that the Left has not been clearly implemented in terms of the red tape of the Oslo School. How does the representative, Skei Grande, think it is important to get an impact on his broad learning vision when the Right Party and the Advance Party are so strongly involved in the setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1433	The representative forgot another point in which we disagree with the Right Party and the Advance Party, namely, fresh oils and dividends – at least the Advance Party disagrees with the Left Party. Those are the four points that one finds that are points of disagreement. All the other points in the setting are - very many - points of agreement. The Left Party and the Progressive Party were the first two parties who said in this Chamber that we must have a five-year teacher training. Now everyone says that. Just that point I would like to have with me the Progress Party on the team to actually get done. When it comes to professional views, and when it comes to the view of very many of the other important steps in Norwegian school, I feel quite certain that we will have it carried out after an election result. But it's important to have a strong left if you're busy not getting grades in high school, if you don't want differentiation. So these are the good reasons to vote left at the fall's elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1441	I just want to know that the Center Party has not programmed five-year teacher training, because we think it's good the way it is, and we want to see how the teacher training we now have works. It should not contradict that you can come back and take a year later and build on a master. But I want to ask questions based on the line I got from the representative from the Progress Party earlier. They want to introduce one hour of physical activity for all pupils throughout primary school. We know that the representative from the Left is not so excited about neither physical activity nor fruit and green. Will it be a big fight, do I want to ask?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1448	I understand that the Center Party has tried to give itself a negotiating position in order to avoid the full-day school of its government partners, and has done so at the teacher's training. I think it was a bad choice of case. But then I think the representative Tingelstad Wøien might consider my attitude towards physical activity and fruit and green according to my size. It's completely wrong. In fact, the left is too physical activity – we think it should be done in subjects other than gym. Long life experience suggests, and studies suggest, and I believe that the Minister of Education has also pointed it out a number of times, that there is not necessarily more gym that gets the kids who are marginally active, more active — that is the range of activities that you can do through other subjects, that get the kids even more active. I'm not against fruit and green. That's a priority for the municipalities, but if they want more teachers, I think they'll get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1453	I want to take a strong distance from the claim that came from the representative from the left. It has nothing to do with the body of those who are standing here as representatives – there may well be more people who can feel struck by it, if that's what was meant. The question was, at least, whether the proposal of the Progress Party, which wants to extend the school day by one hour of extra physical activity in school, is something to which the Left will join. I have also noticed that the Left and Christian People's Party went in to cut the subsidies for fruit and vegetables in the budget that was submitted before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1458	Yes, we cut that money to give them back to the school for further education for teachers. We prioritised it over fruit and green. Then the municipalities can decide what they prioritize beyond the limits given by the government. But it's clear that adding an hour of gym costs – 80 million. kr or something like that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1465	There is no way to ask questions!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1468	It costs a lot of millions, President, and it's a priority. I think I might have prioritised more teachers within the hours we have, rather than extending the school day with an extra hour, but I think that's a negotiation question. If you view gym as the most important subject and extend school day as the most important step, you get to give it priority. This is an economic priority and not such an ideological priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1473	Then the cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1476	«Children and young people are the future of society, and society of the future». It's a great sentence that I'm very pleased with, and that's what's the first sentence in Meld. St. 20, On the right way. That sentence symbolizes the importance of this day, for the decisions to be taken today by the Storting will have a major impact on each student and on Norway as a knowledge nation. Right now, 815 000 students are active at approx. 3 600 primary and secondary schools. The competences these students take with them into the labour market represent the majority of Norway’s national wealth. The Norwegian Joint School is not a result of natural development but of small and large political choices. The cancellation notice shows that the choices we have made in recent years have been correct. Norwegian school is on the right track. Many more people want to work in school today than before, youth research shows that in recent years it has become more important for young people to succeed in school, and we obviously have a lot of skilled teachers and school leaders, because Norwegian school has progressed in all international surveys in recent years. It's true whether we're talking about democratic skills or math skills. Let me do a couple of examples. The results of the ICCS International Democracy Survey show that Norwegian students’ knowledge and attitudes about democracy and citizenship are at the forefront of the world. We succeed in equipping the students to participate in democracy and to be active members of society. As many as one in four Norwegian students have been candidates for the Student Council in the last 12 months. One important explanation may be that most students experience that they have fair, interested and listening teachers, and that they experience an open classroom climate with good relations between teacher and student. It's an amazingly good feedback Norwegian teachers get from their students. No other country can point to as much progress in mathematics as Norwegian fourth grade. The increase is on a total of 44 points from 2003 to 2011. This corresponds to the average progress in performance of students during one school year. So we have a progress corresponding to a whole school year. At the same time, Norwegian fifth-graders are best in mathematics in the Nordic countries when we compare with peers. From 2006 to 2009 they have 10 pst. the weakest tenth graders increased their level of competence with an effect equivalent to nearly one year of reading schooling. The PISA researchers refer to this as a major and significant change. Such a trend change may be referred to by other countries. At the same time, I am concerned that good results on PISA and national tests are not an end in themselves. It's not for us, and it shouldn't be. We only measure individual parts of a broad and comprehensive social mandate that Norwegian school has. On 17 June 2004, the Stortinget adopted the Knowledge Lift. Today, 14 June 2013, we can state that the efforts of Norwegian teachers, students and parents have produced results. I'm glad that we have a new education policy about the most important thing, and that it brings results. Let me take three explanations: Firstly, there has been a major and comprehensive change of attitude in Norwegian school in recent years, from waiting and looking at early efforts. Teachers, principals and everyone else are busy catching up and following up students who need help and support, when they see that they have some problems, which can initially be small, but which, if not addressed, can become big. It is also part of the same thinking that we have had such a great deal of effort in the field of kindergarten and kindergarten. Secondly, we have not introduced new, large, comprehensive curriculum reforms in this period. We have focused on the most basic: giving the teacher good assumptions to succeed in introducing the main content of the Knowledge Lift. We have also renewed and improved this and adjusted it to what was originally planned. And we go all the way, until the fall we're going to start the big introduction of youth change, a competence development program in class management, accounting, reading and writing, and 250 schools are with the first year. After four years we must have reached all. Thirdly, we've been ringing about the common school and playing with the school. We stopped 420 private schools approved by the Bondevik II government. We have met students' demands for free school books, educational materials and equipment scholarships. We've increased the revenues of municipalities by about 60 billion. kr since 2005, and from the fall, the government will spend half a billion dollars over a four-year period trying to test increasing teacher density in the youth. An important reason why we have increased the search for teacher training by almost 60 pst. from 2008, very many young people are seeing so much happening in school and are becoming increasingly aware of the importance of the teacher for it. This is a big message proposing the most extensive changes in vocational training proposed in 20 years. I am very pleased that there is such broad agreement on the proposals that the government is promoting. The notification of cancellation represents a quality promise for vocational and vocational training. We have a social contract in place with the parties, which is going to increase the number of apprenticeship places by 20 pst. by 2015. We open up for the use of exchange models. There has been a demand in industries for better opportunities to combine practices and workplaces such as the learning arena and theory and the school as the learning arena for professionals. It provides them with better opportunities to see the link between common and professional subjects. For those who do not choose an exchange model, we open up the possibility that students will be immersed in a profession in the past. The major fields of application can be broken down into smaller parts. We give greater flexibility to county councils. We replace the regulation of annual hours at the stage of advanced training with minimum ten metals in each subject. The cases and hours are retained, but the county may place a subject on an annual basis based on its own assessments. This means, for example: that schemes such as general technical subjects, TAF, and the same in the field of health, HAF, become possible and form part of the structure, and it is not necessary to apply for tests. We also introduce what many students have requested, a general right to build on completed diplomas or letters of association. I think it's very important to encourage more students to complete and pass the exam or the bachelor's exam, just to make sure that more people complete higher education, but that there are also opportunities for higher education if you want to. It is also very important to ensure that professional letters have value in the labour market. There are too many of those who today take a letter, who feel that they have neither more exciting jobs nor better pay nor other working conditions than unskilled workers. We want to review this whole structure, because it has to be a value in a course of education that ends up in a professional letter – something that we can't guarantee today that all students get. Youth’s educational ambitions are increasing. That's not nice. We see it as a trend in many societies, that one wants to tangentize or surpass the parent's education. There are many other trends in society that also warrant it. What is incredibly important – for individuals and for society – is that we secure enough people with professional and bachelor letters. It needs society. And we need a lot more of those that start on that race, that succeed with that. This big message, all the research we have in this area, has revealed a significant system error, namely that many young people have tried to find a way through higher education, with a better combination of theory and practice, by starting in the professional field and then ending up on completion, which is the toughest theoretical year available in higher education. A lot of people haven't done it, and it's a lot of ironing. Now we have presented a structure and a change in the professions that offers many more opportunities to combine theory and practice, which increases respect for practical learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1516	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1519	The research says that we have to bet on early help as early as possible in school, preferably before school starts. We're familiar with this. It focuses more on early school work today, but still the most remote resources are spent on students with 10th grade reading and writing difficulties and at least on those in 1st grade. This shows that there is still a waiting-and-see attitude in school. Professor Egil Gabrielsen of the University of Stavanger says that there may be many reasons why children don't learn to read and write. It could be a weak teacher, who can't catch up and do anything about the problem. Will the Minister of Knowledge ensure the launch of a pilot project, where, in consultation with the school, PPT is allowed to apply special pedagogical measures for students who need to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1528	One of the things that was taken up and implemented when we dealt with just these questions in a separate big message not long ago was that the schools should be obliged to initiate action against individual students at the moment they saw that there were some professional challenges. One should not wait and look at individual decisions. I believe that this is the right way to go and not to deprive the students of their rights, but at the same time to ensure that the school is rusted and in place with one single step to help, for example. a student who has difficulty reading. The increase in special education has been flattening out in the last few years. But our goal is to make sure that pupils in primary school get so good help early, that we don't have the development of increasing special education through the school cycle. Here's one more thing that's very important: we have to have a liberal and inclusive school at the bottom. Research from the promise of knowledge may indicate that we have received one too narrow and academic school – therefore also this work on practical and varied teaching.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1538	I perceive that there is no particular willingness to put in place early measures in the field of special education, which could have caused us to reduce special education at a later stage. A whole generation of capable teachers are retiring. If we are to ensure that students are well qualified and committed teachers, we need to take action that increases the status of the teaching profession and makes it more attractive both to be and to become a teacher. Good pay and working conditions and good professional career paths are important elements for attracting the most qualified candidates. The school needs a new personnel policy, according to Norsk Lektorlag. They say that many of the teachers who are now retiring would not choose school as a job today after having experienced decades of poor pay, impaired professional status and poorer working conditions. What will the Council of State do to meet this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1549	After all, we are doing quite well when the teacher training search has increased by the next 60 pst. from 2008, when we get 1,000 more back to school from occupations other than those we lose from school — a positive trade relationship — when more teachers are in the profession than they could retire, and when only the law school has had a stronger increase in the number of applications than the teacher’s study. I am very surprised that many in the opposition want to draw a picture of the teaching profession that is not attractive, because it is wrong. Of course, we have many things to do, not least on the employer’s side – i.e. at the county councils and municipalities that are employers. They must ensure that they have attractive working conditions for teachers. We work with the parties to see how we can get alternative career paths into school, but the starting point... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1556	Time's up. The President will ask the Council of State to deal with the measured speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1561	I can't help but say that I think the Council of State is suing this with the search for teacher training, because it's a fact that very many of those who are applying have actually not even realized that you need to have the grade 3 in the basics in order to get into the teacher's education. Many applicants are not qualified, and if we're going to manage to close that gap, cover the lack of teachers that we're actually seeing now in the horizon towards 2020, we need to educate many more, and we need to have a more positive exchange relationship for teachers who come back to school after being out. Then I call for a more offensive stance from the Council of State on this with new career paths. What does the Council of State really see that more needs to be done, to lure back the teachers who have dropped off, and who are probably in better paid jobs, when the state now has two hands and leaves to the parties to do this job?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1568	The representative Aspaker does not hear quite well after what I say, but I have the following on my heart: Applicants for the teacher’s studies have higher grades than students in general. This is a very good growth in the search for teacher training. That's a good starting point. We have worked closely with the social partners in this area to see if we can find alternative career paths, which we agree on. I think that's very interesting. I think the most interesting thing really is where I see that the left and the right separate a little bit. The right is concerned about getting teachers who are good practitioners, and – as I see it – the Right proposal – will create some alternative career paths there. I think that's very interesting. But I am very concerned that we get an agreement between employers, employees and us on what should be the criteria, and how this should be done. It's a matter that I'm working on now, and that I'm going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1577	Although much goes well in Norwegian school, we are left with the big challenge, namely those students who perform the weakest, and who therefore get problems when they are going on in life with work or education. That's the big challenge. There the government has launched an action called the New GIV, which is to be a special scheme for the weakest students, where appropriate training is provided in groups. It's exactly the same policy that the government is otherwise strongly opposed to using in school. Why is it stigmatizing for school students in general to be in groups with adapted education from the level, while it is right and necessary to do so a few weeks on the tenth grade for the very weakest students?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1584	It almost sounds as if the Right regrets that Norwegian school is on the right track, and that the students learn more after eight years of red-green government and an SV State Council in that position. I hope that's an obvious misunderstanding. So for level differentiation: it's allowed to vary levels, and it may be necessary to adapt training. But there are very good reasons why it shouldn't be on a permanent basis. We have broad international research that shows that students learn less than if they are in heterogeneous groups. It's because it's very easy to set too low expectations for those who perform the worst, and students learn from each other. If you get into a culture where you're concerned about learning outcomes and raising your students, that's what's lifting most students. New GIV is going on this balance sheet, but it's not an argument for permanent level-sharing in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1591	Now I see that the council looks a little bit confused. She's wondering what I said.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1598	I looked benevolent.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1603	Yes, the Council of State so kindly. I said, we want sign language as an electoral profession in school – I hope. The reason I did that was because I wanted to give a little bit of an idea of how sign language students feel when they go into ordinary classes, and how the other people who are going to communicate with them have it. It's hard. Choice would have been a help for this group. This was my first question. My second question is: I met someone who taught in RLE, who told about a student who had the last year with RLE, and who had been out in practice and came back and said that also in Norwegian, math, English, and in all other subjects, he had used what he had learned in the RLE subject – why then did you remove it as a compulsory electoral subject, and why won't you reintroduce it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1612	The President is pleased with sign language, but in combination with sound, both in the interests of those who listen to the debate, in the interests of the referees, and in the interests of the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1616	I understand the intention behind the desire to have sign language as an electoral subject. But I believe that when sign language is a language, and electoral science is really an opportunity for young people to fine-tune any interests they have, in order to increase the motivation of youth, electives are not basically the right approach to increase their skills in sign language. If a school and a class get a student who has sign language as a language, I believe that the whole class – not just three that might be particularly interested, or some teachers that might be particularly interested – should use the opportunity, so that the whole environment around that student learns a new language, and sign language is a new language. It's my ambition – and we have a good dialogue about it – to make a better arrangement in this regard. One has the ability to take sign language as the second foreign language in high school. My starting point for an approach to this is that this is a language in line with other languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1627	Political processes are dialogues between those inside the system and us who have different policy objectives for the job we do. With regard to the proposal from the Council of State on media and communication, it has been a long time since I received so many enquiries and e-mails from people who are in the profession, as when that proposal was submitted. We in the Left have worked a lot on it, and together with the Christian People's Party, we have promoted a proposal to look at a hybrid model, for which we have received great support, and much praise, from the trade unions lately. So my question is, why can't the Council of State look at this model -- it's a product of a good political process, with many input from the professional communities working on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1638	The comments to the majority of the Committee invite further dialogue on how to address the challenges of media health – not least those related to the media today. The proposal of the Left and Christian People's Party states that it should continue to be a professional programme, but that it should be possible to extend it to a hybrid. I think it is right that it should be a study preparatory programme. It is quite right that there are many possibilities for flexibility within the proposals and the structure that are there now, but initially this programme hears – reaching 3 pst. students choose to take a diploma and the rest choose to prepare for the study — initially at home in the preparatory programmes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1645	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1648	We're on the right track with Norwegian school. The students learn more, many municipalities and schools work systematically and well with school development, fewer students are at a critical level of reading, and the pupils at the small step are better in mathematics. This means that we have improved and come closer to the three objectives we have in Norwegian school: that all students should master better basic skills, and everyone should experience mastery. This will lead to less non-response. Remember, the main cause of high school dropout is too weak skills in reading and writing and calculating. A better primary school means that students are more prepared for a course at high school, in further education and working life, whether a professional or an academic career awaits. In addition, a better primary school will make students better prepared for something more, namely getting ready to grow up, because education is more than pugging the glosses, it's something more than reading quickly and efficiently, and it's something more than just being able to solve complicated equations. Education gives each of us a platform to live a good life. Education forms us as human beings, and the education we give children and young people forms society as well. The school must therefore have a broad mandate. That's why I'm happy that the general curriculum is a theme in the message. The current general curriculum is good, it is inspiring, and it has a broad knowledge view. It's good that we keep it. But it is also good that we adjust it, and it is good that the entire committee stands together around it. All children have sparked in themselves. All we need is to light it. He who said this was born in Sarpsborg many years ago. He moved to England, became a writer, and through his amazing books he still gives his contribution, namely, to light the reading spark of children. His name is Roald Dahl. Culture and art, music and literature, nature, outdoor life – through this, children and young people get experiences and mastery. If the opportunities in these types of arenas are used in a good way, the students will learn more, they will thrive better, and they will get it better and generally prepared to master their own adult life. In a debate like this, I think it is important that this perspective emerges. I believe that this social mission that the school has, is also best done in the community school — in its own local environment, where all children gather in a common school, regardless of social background and parental income. The Norwegian Joint School shall ensure, and provide, a good education to the individual – for the best of society. This is not a broad consensus in this room. The other day, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg dubbed the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen. There the leader of the Progress Party spoke about consumers, who themselves could choose school freely in a market, in competition between schools. Conceptual practice does not belong in the Norwegian school debate, and this fundamentally conflicts with the way the Workers' Party views the school. It is my particular feeling that there are several parties in this room, including from the opposition, who share this view with us in the Workers' Party, and who wonder and do not believe that competition based on one-dimensional figures is the saluting and leading to school development. Running with pallet positions is best suited to Bislet when N’Dure and Bolt run a hundred metres. It's not a good idea to do this with children, with teachers and with schools. It is well documented, both through research and by looking at empirical trials — whether or not to use such a concept — that it does not promote learning. The empirical test is Sweden. The Swedes would make the world's best school. They should still have the public high school they had. When they started that experiment – twenty years ago – they were among the best schools in the world. Now all arrows point downwards, and it's a crisis. It's bankruptcy, and it's character inflation. An increasing number of children are below a critical limit in basic skills. This is not just about whether it is allowed to take profits or not in school – as some debaters have made a big point in the Norwegian school debate. It's about the whole market cycle that's at the root of the school debate. The market belongs to the business community – that's where it fits very well. In children's education, it doesn't belong. A good public common school that works out safe children who master their own daily lives is the best, both for them and for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1671	We probably have an important education debate – the second one this week. On Monday, it was research into interactions with higher education that was the theme. Today, we are at an earlier stage of education, but it does not matter less – on the contrary. The basis for this is primary and secondary education. My colleague Elisabeth Aspaker has taken care of high school, high school and high school. I'm going to focus on preparation and transition to higher education. It is good to point out the importance of flexible schemes adapted to individual students to help students through high school and into the workplace. The right considers it important that even if you have taken a vocational training course, you should have the right to change your mind and the right to build up, so that you can gain study competence. There should be an open road to higher education for those who want it. However, there is a strange conclusion that government parties have reached when they want to qualify for higher education. The conclusion becomes extra strange when members of the government parties say that this will increase the search for the professions and raise the status. The logic of choosing a professional with subsequent extra courses in order to regain a lack of knowledge if a person wants to gain study competence is a logic that we in the Right do not follow. Nor can I understand that it is going to raise the status of vocational training to lower the admission requirements for higher education – on the contrary. Professional letters are a great education, and society needs skilled workers. Vocational training is an independent and valuable education. In addition, there are now several good alternatives for those who find that they will still take higher education. It's a respectable choice, and the possibilities are open to them. The provision of vocational education is a very important offer for all those who want to develop their skills, and the Y-road is already established as a successful system for transition from professional and working life to higher education. The transitions between the different levels of education prove to be one of the main challenges of our school system throughout. The right does not believe that the challenge will be reduced by raising students with a lower level of knowledge. We'd rather further develop good deals for those who need or want a lift before the next level. Both academia and industry, the candidates to be recruited in the next round, have expressed themselves very sceptical about the solution that government parties are now launching. The opposition agrees, and I am pleased that an overall opposition will rather extend the right to post-graduate education. So I want a few comments on Document No. The 8th proposal by the Christian People's Party on the RLE subject. As can be seen from the comments, the Right agrees that professional competence should be required in the subjects in which a teacher is taught, thus also in the RLE subject. It is worrying that after the course was optional in teacher training, very few people choose this. Then it is also a paradox that the educational institutions that have applicants and want to expand their offer have to struggle with a department and a political leadership that will not give them opportunities and that does not see the opportunities that this gives for competent teachers to be put in place. This needs to be corrected. The Christian People's Party proposes that RLE be reintroduced as a compulsory subject in primary school teacher training. Of course, this may be a way of doing it, but when so many choose to do it now, it also needs to be seen in the context of the fact that the government parties will not have competence requirements in this subject. We in the Right believe that when we introduce skills requirements, of course, more people will choose the subject, and at the same time by facilitating that more people can take such training as an independent study at the Faculty of Education and other similar offers, we will get the necessary teaching skills in the subject. Then the Christian People's Party has brought forward two proposals that have been discussed carefully in this Chamber before, and that we have partly agreed on. When the Right now does not want to change the subject's name, it is for two reasons. Firstly, right-wing followers do not change names too often, as this can quickly create confusion and trigger discussions and counterpowers that do not necessarily strengthen the subject. Secondly, we believe that the content of the subject is crucial. Then we are also concerned with the last proposal of the Christian People's Party, that Christianity should have at least 55 pst. of the time spent teaching. Again – it is the content that applies. The requirements of competence indicate that Christianity has a very central place, and far greater than the other religions. Then it's up to the individual teacher to assess whether it's 50, 55 or 65 pst. the time needed to achieve these objectives. The right agrees with the intention, but does not agree to attach a percentage of time – this as a explanation of vote for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1688	In connection with this position, there are also several representatives from the Christian People's Party. One of them is ten proposals to raise the teacher's position in primary and secondary schools. According to the Central Statistical Office, there will be a shortage of 15 000 general school teachers in 2020. The number of evening posts has been collected shows that 169 new teacher students have jumped from the start of the study last autumn at the largest teacher training places. I believe that action needs to be taken on both the education itself, on how newly educated people are cared for in their first job, and – not least – on the role of teachers. If you are to succeed in meeting the needs of more teachers, you need to recruit more people to become teachers and make sure you keep existing teachers in school. My basic attitude is that a good school is completely dependent on good and many enough teachers. The Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for better practice in teacher training, but there is also a need for more practice. A mandatory mentoring scheme in the form of an introductory year will make a decisive contribution to this. There should be a clear ambition and a clear objective to make a mentoring scheme in the form of a mandatory year of introduction for all newly trained teachers. Let me go to the next suggestion. This spring we have proposed making the RLE subject mandatory for all teachers in teacher training. The question of faith and religious interpretation of life touches on many of the most fundamental aspects of human life. Teachers must be able to engage in dialogue and deal with potential conflicts based on culture and religion. This applies to all teachers, not just those who teach the RLE subject. Even though religion is removed from teacher training, religion and life views come through the classroom door anyway, because it is borne by the students themselves. Without an understanding of the importance of faith for individuals and societies, our ability to deal with social challenges is weakened, where the key lies in such an understanding. This is why both teacher and school religious and life views are important. It is difficult to see how the school can contribute to more tolerance, respect and understanding between different cultures and religions when one weakens the religious knowledge of the teachers. It is strange to say that no other party sees this challenge and supports our proposal. When I heard the argument to the Right now: this is not about the concern of the RLE subject as such. This proposal is about giving the teacher the competence to meet the diversity of students they get into school. We have also proposed to get Christianity back in the name of the subject at school, so that the name is changed to Christianity, religion, view of life and ethics. It is to the extent that a symbolic position can be important. But what we've suggested, which will make a real change, is to make sure that at least 55 pst. the teaching is about Christianity, in line with the objectives of competence. It's not like you can just pick 50, 55 or 65 pst. You can also choose a third today and therefore also say that you meet the competence goal. This was the position that the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right were united when the subject was changed in 2009. The fact that we did not get through these points was actually the reason why the negotiations that were conducted between the government parties and the opposition broke down, and the government trumped through its new subject. Now I read in our country that the representative Aspaker characterised his own positions from that time on as a symbolist policy. She even says that today's RLE subject was a compromise between all parties. It wasn't. That the Right has changed its position on the matter is entirely permissible. But I want to say that this is an important thing – not for the Christian People's Party or because we have a very strong need to protect Christianity, but we believe that the teachers need this knowledge to meet the students they get in, and students need a ballast to understand our nation and tradition. I can promise that the Christian People's Party will fight further along with many of the institutes and RLE institutes around the country, so that this will also be reflected in the RLE subject in the future. I have already addressed the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1718	Our good common ground is the result of active political choices and priorities. In the last eight years, the government has strengthened and renewed the common sphere by emphasising early efforts, adapting training and a good learning environment. This big message provides the basis for improving the capacity of the community to meet the needs and aspirations of children and young people and to improve the quality of basic training for future communities and working life. The common ball shall provide all equal training frameworks irrespective of background. It has a great value, and the students are supposed to be gathering mainly in schools where children and young people from all over the Norwegian community meet and learn. The primary task of the school is training, but it also plays a major role in the socialisation and growth conditions of pupils and apprentices. It's a self-esteem that children and young people with different backgrounds meet on such a common arena as school is, to learn how to master social and cultural differences. But more private schools and extensive use of student level differentiation, which the Right and Advance Party have repeated in the hall here today, can water down our common sphere. It's not our policy. The right to further training for all has resulted in Norway having one of the world’s best outsourced populations. Projections show that the need for unskilled labour will be greatly reduced in the future. This one youth out of school in the future, he fell vertically out of work and ends up at Nav. Therefore, it is crucial that the most likely to complete a further training course is completed. The Labour Party will therefore have an educational system that is flexible, one that can build on competence throughout life. More people need to complete vocational training and obtain vocational letters in order to meet future skills needs. For the same reason, we will increase the possibility of continuing to higher education for those who have obtained the relevant letter. In the historical perspective, the working party always has a lot to do to increase access to knowledge. We fight to make higher education available to everyone. We are fighting to ensure that further education is made available to everyone. For the same reason, we introduced real competence assessment. Sometimes the debate on the arguments that the opposition is now using also went down, i.e. it would lower the quality. There is no reason for that criticism. There's actually every reason to believe that this will raise the quality. The best students, those who ignore a vocational training course, can now actually invest in a vocational training course and have flexibility to move on to, for example, an engineering education — if they want to. This will increase the status of professionals. However, institutions need to increase their height in order for students to have a much more frequent background than before, so they need to provide more structured arrangements, such as math and physics. It is the responsibility of educational institutions to facilitate education so that all students end up with the required learning outcomes. The focus must be turned from just focusing on the input competence to focus on the student's initial competence. That's what matters. The higher education qualification framework describes the learning outcomes expected for all candidates who have completed a current level of education at the time of further education. It is a premise that everyone who is admitted to a study, regardless of the basis of admission, gets the same learning outcomes. However, it is important that one of these changes closely follows developments in order to ensure a qualitatively good development – as the experience of engineering training through the Y-way has given us. So a little bit about our language -- our identity. I am pleased that a joint committee underlines the importance of having two equalised target forms, nine Norse and book goals. But it's completely unintelligible why the Advance Party and the Right will remove the side goal character in the base ball. It is a historical attack on the language-policy fixation decision that the Stortinget made on 12 May 1885 Western Norwegian culture. [[President clubs again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1752	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1755	The term ‘big in words, small in soil’ illustrates the current policies and practices of this government. It is clearly easy to express verbal support for all good proposals, while at the next round you vote them down and go against them. There are in particular three proposals that we in the Progress Party raise, and which I am concerned about: more physical activity, sign language as an electoral profession, and fight against bullying in school. We know that increased physical activity increases cognitive capacity. We know it provides better motivation for learning, more calm hours, better class environment, and that it helps prevent health and lifestyle diseases. Unfortunately, we have a majority government where all three parties say that they want more physical activity, but that in some amazing way has managed to negotiate this out every year. When we in the Progress Party propose this, they are opposed. Why? Either it is because the government actually does not want more physical activity, or it is because the proposal comes from the Progress Party. We in the Progress Party are concerned with inclusion and community. The Government is writing in Message. St. 18 for 2012–2013 that inclusion is a fundamental principle of government education policy. The Sign Language Package, which they are behind, says the same thing. Here we serve them a proposal that is exactly in line with what they themselves have spoken about several times, by wanting to introduce sign language as one of the electoral subjects that the secondary schools will have the opportunity to offer. This is how we ensure that students with hearing impairment can be included in the social community at school, and that we can strengthen a future recruitment to the deaf interpreting profession. This proposal does not cost anything, and it guarantees freedom of choice for schools by allowing them to choose to offer it – if they want it or have the skills to do so. When we promote this proposal and the government goes against it, you can ask why. Either it is because the government does not really want deaf and hearing impaired people to be included in school, or it is because the proposal comes from the Progress Party. At the same time, we believe that all students have the right to a good and safe learning environment without violence, bullying, violence or harassment from fellow students or teachers. We are concerned to show the power of action in this regard. Then we have to make bullies responsible for school owners and management. We must look at the possibility of financial sanctions in the event of serious infringements and infringements. We must create closer cooperation with the conflict council towards the school. Practice should be that it is the bully who swaps school in bullying, not the victim – as we are seeing today on and off. Then we can ask why the government goes against it. Why does the government go against several of the proposals of the Progress Party in this area? Either it's because you don't want a fight against bullying, and to guarantee the rights of the bullying victims, or it's because the proposals come from the Progress Party. This picture is scary. It is frightening because it clearly shows that the government has no scruples about having beautiful promises to the voters, but does not implement it when it comes to the play. It's scary because you actively choose to put ideology ahead of practice, that they set ideological positions and ride the headlines rather than actually taking measures that are the best for the students. It's scary because children's learning and well-being in school is made less important than winning political favor for the voters. For us in the Progress Party, students are more important than political strategy and games. For us, learning is more important than ideology. I look forward to an explanation of why you want to go against these proposals. Is that because you are against the political content, or is it because it comes from the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1778	The invention of the writing language provided the basis for the dissemination of knowledge — knowledge essential to the development of any society. Human beings, for natural reasons, have always desired to acquire knowledge, and for natural reasons, we also know that all humans have different prerequisites for acquiring knowledge. Regardless of the type and amount of knowledge an individual demands, the dissemination becomes crucial. The dissemination of knowledge has been called education in modern times. No modern society can be sustainable without a well-organised and well-equipped education system. A system that gives equal opportunities to everyone, and strives to reach everyone, is the most successful. Fortunately, Norway is one of the countries where this happens in practice. Education has been the main focus of the red-green government. Our economic policies and our economic development and well-being are strongly rooted in a good education system. We are living at a time when technological development is moving at a pace that requires enormous efforts on the part of the authorities to avoid our becoming lagging behind in development. The demand for higher education in the Norwegian community is increasing for every day that goes. There is no disagreement that in the future we will need a great deal of investment in higher education, but the basis for all higher education is laid much earlier, and very long before, the higher education begins. The long way from kindergarten to university makes many premises to achieve the goal. The largest and decisive arena will be primary school. Basic skills and knowledge will be crucial for the way forward throughout the training cycle. An education system lacking or weak to facilitate basic education will be hard to meet. Therefore, it is very important that we use our best skills and resources in basic education for our children and young people. All research also points to the fact that many of the problems that students face during the course of education can be solved at primary school level. Proper and targeted investment at primary level brings great benefits to society. Without good basic education, it will be difficult to equip students to meet future challenges. It may be the general study competence or a pre-vocational education. Therefore, it has been natural for us to give priority to basic training. Increases in hours spent in primary school are an effort to deliver results by our students now achieving better international results. It shows that the distance between students with professionally strong and professionally weak performance has been reduced by the lifting of low-skilled students. Increases in hours alone do not produce results if they are not followed up at the same time by investing in teacher skills and teaching resources in school. Teachers are essential for the learning and quality of students in school. Increasing teacher density in school is one of the measures that will deliver good results. It is with pleasure that we record that the government is providing Norwegian school with more teaching resources. From the fall it is expected that Norwegian school will have 600 new teachers. By investing in initial training, we will also save many resources that will have to be used later if early schooling bias is not corrected. We know that all students have different prerequisites for getting an education. That's why it's important to think widely when you're creating an education. Many people are motivated and willing to carry out education in the normal way, but few people need extra measures or adapted training to move on. The great thing about the Norwegian high school is that there are ambitions here, not just for the many, but also for the few who also need education, but require a little more attention. The large majority is important for society, but the minority that are at risk of falling from it is even more important. For the many reasons mentioned in the case of high school leave, we know that primary school leavers are contributing causes. That is why New GIV is an important project. There are measures aimed at students at the tenth stage, but the aim is to prevent early school dropouts. Since the establishment of the New GIV in the autumn of 2010, the offer has been given to several thousand students. It is expected to approx. 6000 students will participate in this project in the spring of 2013, and the project will be extended to the whole country next year. There are good feedback from students and teachers on this project. Norwegian school has become much better lately and is going to be even better with the measures and efforts that have been made by the red-green government in this period. We are facing major challenges, but the joy is that we are well equipped and well prepared. Our children and young people will receive an education that will enable them to pass on the country. Our future lies in education. In order to ensure this, it's necessary that we continue in the trail that's been laid by the red-greens.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1812	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. The President would like to recall that the possibility for the rapporteur to have an unlimited number of posts applies only in relation to the matter for which he is rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1817	Norway needs good trade union workers in the future. Then we'll have to recruit more wide. We must have flexibility in education. We need to improve learning, and the roads must be open to those who want it. It may be the way in an academic society that the value of craftsmanship and vocational training has not really been given a positive position and a note that is proportionate to what all these necessary, interesting and great subjects represent. Nor has the emphasis on professional disqualification seen these subjects in a slightly negative light. That is why I am so pleased with this big message. One of the main elements of this message is the flexibility and relevance of further training. Elevar, who starts a professional profession today, has the possibility to switch to a third. In this pop-up message the government suggests that they are now entitled to build on it later. That's very good. But I also think that many of those who are very wrong, who may start in general, but who might have had a better professional competence, will also have the opportunity to change their choice in the process. I am therefore very pleased that the government says that they want to gather experience of transitions from preparatory to professional and to consider incorporating this into the supply structure. What I want as a possibility for these students is maybe to create a compact year of addition, a professional with a right to study, so it's possible to get a lot of new, good professionals. In this message we also write about practicing more subjects. I have seen math teachers who put on the chain and take the students out to the workshop. Students at this school learn more, and do much more. I hope that several elephants can experience such teachers and get such opportunities. I was also going to talk a little bit about recruiting a professional, but I see that my time is running out, so I want to ask for a new three-minute post to talk about the rest of my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1830	There's been a lot of talk about formation. That is also the concern of the Progress Party. I would like to remind you that when work was started on the democratization of knowledge in Norway — the public education work in the late 1800s — it was about giving a larger proportion of the population the opportunity to understand the society in which they lived, by teaching people to read. Understanding the society you live in is very demanding if you can't read. When we discuss education and public education, we must not forget that one in five boys goes to school for ten years without being able to read and understand an article in the evening post or the day's business. It's a dimension we can't forget. So it has been said very exciting about free school choices, also in Sweden. I must remind you that in Sweden there is a broad compromise between all parties in Parliament on school policy. I also remember that we have a prime minister who has attended private school, and that SV's prime representative in Stortinget, the Vice President, is using free school choices, because he has the opportunity to do so because the right side of Oslo has a majority in favour of it. So to a professional letter as the basis for admission to higher education: today, more than one of the three starting in engineering education falls away. They end up without education, and weak math skills are the main reason for this dropout. Those who today start engineering, come in with 15 weeks in mathematics, and yet there's one of the three that can't complete math. So with the proposal that the Workers' Party is getting a majority today, candidates with 3 weeks in mathematics are going to be qualified for engineering training. The council said we need more people who start engineering. No, we don't need more people who start engineering – we need more people who complete engineering training, and we don't get that with today's proposal! This is what the Education Association believes, which is what the student organisations believe, this is what the engineering organisations believe, this is what the University and Higher Education Council believe, this is what all technology training in Norway means, and it also believes, for example, that it does. Shipowners' association in business. What you're doing here is throwing blues in the eyes of these students and saying, "You, little friend, are going to be allowed to start engineering" and give them hope that they can actually do it. But with 3 weeks in mathematics as the basis, it's an almost inconvenient task to complete a three-year Bachelor's degree in technology to maintain the quality requirements, the quality objectives you have in today's engineering training, and something else we can't afford.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1843	Together with Meld. St. 20 and other things that we are dealing with here today, we also have a representative proposal from the Christian People's Party to remove the queues for the municipal cultural schools. Proposalers point out in the proposal that municipal cultural schools operate in many places with very long waiting lists and that a national escalation plan should be implemented in order to strengthen the offer, so that it can be a real offer for anyone who wants it. I think it is right to say that the cultural school and offer given there has not been a very high priority in the many school policy debates and work of the church, education and research committee in the last four years. There have been many other major and important issues and discussions. To this end, the proposers should be commended for the promotion of this proposal. In my opinion – and it may be easy to say for one to leave the Storting – perhaps government and greatness should take the more fundamental and general debate on what kind of offer the cultural school should be, and for whom, and with what resources, and at what quality level, once during the next majorisation period. On behalf of the Right, I would like to say that we view the cultural school offer as an important addition to the ordinary primary school offer. The cultural school means much to the talent development of children and young people, as a resource for voluntary singing and music and for other cultural activities. The supply varies, both due to local needs and assumptions, the size of the municipality and political priorities. Government funds for cultural schools are not earmarked, and the last step taken by the government was to replace searchable means of development, with funds that now go to one school of culture for 1–4 students. Steps, an offer that will now also be legalised, but which will nevertheless be voluntary, and which, after what I can see on various municipal websites, will be quite limited in any case. This strange hybrid solution can – and I stress – cause the cultural school offer to go into dissociation. Instead of funds for quality development and provision in the cultural school, the funds are now lubricated more thinly. I hope local politicians don't use this as a pretext to cut the budget of the cultural school, but it's a fact that the ordinary business is weakened as a result of the government's arrangement. Nevertheless, the fact remains that we have a public school offer that has so little capacity that the waiting lists are very long in many places, and this was also the starting point for the proposalers’ representatives. I would like to address the minority proposal in this matter from the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, which is proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1861	Then the representative Henning Warloe mentioned the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1864	A few years ago, the Norwegian magazine History had an article series that was based on counterfactual history. In short, this implies that a set as a premise that an important historical event had a different outcome than what actually happened, and that an attempt to analyse the direction that world history might have taken with such a changed assumption. One of the articles was built around a thoughtful situation, where a Nazi-steered Germany won World War II. The descriptions of the direction the world's history could have taken were scary and thought-provoking reading. It is possible to imagine another interesting starting point for counterfactual history writing with far more extensive implications for world history than if the allies had lost their way out of World War II. What if Jesus of Nazareth had never been born? What if no one had given mankind the immortal messages in the Sermon on the Mount and the parable of the merciful Samaritan? What if no one had given the world a message that all people have the same value, that a slave is as much worth as his master, and that a poor poor poor man has the same value as the emperor in Rome? What if the Celts had never met the message that you should take care of the weak and the disabled instead of beating them in their heels right after birth? What if the Vikings had never met Irish monks and mionaires who told us that the White Christians put nest love and goodness in front of killing and looting orgies with examples in the North Island of Azatro? What if European philosophers had never written their works because they lacked their millennial cultural background as Christian Europeans? A counterfactual history analysis that passes these milestones towards our time would probably have to conclude that our Western civilization, based on democracy and human rights and science, simply would not have existed. Education is more than being able to perform calculations and master different genres in self-produced texts. Education is also to introduce new generations of formation and values that will provide the basis for ethical assessments in life's great choices. Mathematics and Norwegian are compulsory subjects in Norwegian teacher training. In our view, the introduction of the goods of thought and the value base on which European spirit, culture and legislation is based should be equally mandatory for Norwegian teachers. Knowing the course of history and the assumptions for it is important. Well, it's so important that in school and education, we give our children and young people knowledge of the spiritual impulses and ethical assessments that are the core of Christian faith and that have inspired people over 2,000 years. Passing it on to new generations is more than transferring knowledge and facts. It's about formation, about raising values and spirit life that, without comparison, has been the main prerequisite for the emergence of our Western civilization. For this reason, the Christian People's Party proposes that the KRLE value subject be compulsory in Norwegian teacher training and that it should be stated in the curricula that 55 pst. the number of hours shall go to the main area of Christianity.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1875	I would like to say a little bit about the majority comments on some of the representatives' proposals. To Document 8:89 S on sign language: sign language is facing challenges. That is why it is good that the Ministry of Knowledge, together with the Norwegian Federation of Deaf Workers and the Language Council, work to strengthen the status of sign language in initial training. The Directorate of Education is working on implementing the measures that have come out of this cooperation. It is fully possible in today's higher education structure to provide sign language as a second foreign language if the school is competent and students are interested in it. To Document 8:90 S on the Purpose Paragraph: A general part of the curriculum has been well received at school since it was written in the 1990s, but a lot has happened in school since then; among other things, we have. have been given a new purpose paragraph. This is not reflected in the curriculum. In the setting for the big message that we are discussing today, we agree that we should revise the general part of the curriculum, especially in order to: the purpose paragraph shall be reflected in it. I also refer to Document 8:100 S on real-time vocational schools. We're going to have high ambitions for all the students. We want this bet to take place in the states where the students actually live, we don't want to pick out any students for the elite gym and thus make real science a subject for specially selected. On the contrary, we're going to facilitate the lifting of all the students, including those at the highest level of mastering. A real-life strategy that takes further action to raise Norwegian students in the field of real-life education is therefore, in the majority's view, a right step to take. To Document 8:55 S on the position of teachers: The teachers are essential for the students' school days, and for the students' learning. The majority are therefore pleased that the government, together with the GNIST partners, has given priority to increasing the recruitment of the profession and increasing the status and reputation of the teaching profession. A permanent system of continuing training for teachers and improved local economy, together with guidance for new and better teacher training, are also important measures that have been taken to raise the position of teachers and recruit more teachers. In the case of the other documents, the majority of the comments in the vote appear.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1892	In today's newspapers we can read a lot about what's going on bullying over the Internet and social media. The cause of the phenomenon is new technologies and new opportunities. Before that, if you were to bully a fellow student or an peers, you had to be careful not to see the teacher or any adults when you were going to do it. But with social media, you can do it in the boys' room or the girls' room. Before that, if you were to steal a record, a cassette, or an LP record, in a store, you really had to be careful so the storekeeper wouldn't take you in the collar and shoot you to the police. Today you can do it in the boys' room or the girls' room with the iPad. Before that, you could not steal or bully others because we were afraid to be taken. Today it is much more so that you simply don't have to bully and steal because it's not right. It is the new challenge of modern society, and it requires a completely different awareness of the values, ethics and attitudes of the emerging generation. Let me say it this way: I am quite amazed that we can have a multi-hour school debate in The Norwegian Storing and have so little interest in the issues that are just going on about values, attitudes and ethics in school, although there are actually several suggestions that are on the table for treatment, which affect exactly that. Then I've spent two thirds of my time on something I really shouldn't talk about, but it just had to be said, because it's in the record that it's said today. I took the floor to talk about cultural schools. Now we've come to that place by a large majority in the Grand Duchy that we're spending ten billion dollars. kr on culture. What is the first thing we would do if we were to spend 10 billion dollars. kr on culture, if we took a step back and looked at the big picture? We would teach children and young people to express themselves through art and culture. That is at least the clear priority of the Christian People's Party. Now we're here after eight years of red-green government, and the cultural school promise is broken. There never came a cultural school lift. The Christian People's Party proposes an escalation plan. The money is put on the table, but they are involved in a school policy action called the cultural school class. We need a cultural school lift. The Christian People's Party has proposed this. There doesn't seem to be any more of the parties' votes, but there's really a need to give cultural policy credibility. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1911	There's no time for speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1914	The right has been concerned about what signals a broadcaster sends when a person refers to vocational training as a step towards further education, as is done in the proposals we have before us today. Vocational training is an independent and good education, and it's people we need in society. When we have been concerned about this, there are several contributions from the Labour Party here today that have been good at telling us just how important it is to raise the status of vocational education and training as they are. That's good, but I'm confused, because in Political Quarter this morning, the representative Tor Bremer mentioned today's vocational training as a dead end. So you had to open up new roads. It's not really talking about the professions, it's just talking them down. I hope there were not many professionals who were up and heard at the Political Quarter – it is probably not very likely either – but I think I need an explanation of what the Workers' Party really means. Is vocational training a dead end? Is it just a step on the way to another education, or is it a valuable education in itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1924	First, I want to say to the last speaker that when a good education when you're 16 years old, you're not always sure that you know what you want to do for the rest of your life. So that one has all the possibilities open up separately is at least an important value for us in the Workers' Party. If you want to recruit the best skilled workers in the future, we need to recruit more broadly. My goal is to see more girls in the basement and more guys in the health jacket. The choice of occupations is very often exemplary and well-known. Then gender-based choices are often made. If we want to change that, we need to take action. Already in primary school, we are forced to focus on it or start a good project. In the National Association of Schools’ Note to Report. St. 20 is a project called Girls in Car and Electro, which has done a very exciting job with the girls who have chosen professional subjects. This project should be used as an example to start more subjects around, e.g. the health profession for boys. I would like to say that the LO's equality award this year went to the project Girls in the car and electro. So to the setting. There's a common note that actually all are a few, except for the Progress Party. It's quite interesting, because everyone wants one to do something and one to get more, but the Progress Party is completely outside here. But then we read the setting for the next case that is on the map today: gender-neutral protection obligation. Then I was so happy, because there we can read that the whole committee, including the Progress Party, writes that ‘a characteristic of an equal society is that both men and women are represented at all levels and at all levels of work’. I have to say, I'm very much in agreement with the committee that comes after. That is why I am very pleased that the majority in this committee also want to focus on measures to increase the number of people to choose untraditionally. There is no point in waiting for a new big message. We can start work right away.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1940	I was absolutely sure that I would get a line – of six possible lines from the opposition – on the changes we are proposing regarding the Y-way, but I didn't get a single one. I take that as a sign that the opposition is not so very excited about this proposal anyway. That's the good reason, so I want to say that the opposition is welcome after. We have very good experience with local Y-ways, for example. in the field of engineering training, and these are the ones we are now proposing it should be possible to access through the Coordinated Recording. Engineering training Y-routes are arranged for students and students with a letter of formal qualifications as a starting point. They have very good results, and they are the most dedicated students we have. What we're doing now is giving the places of study the opportunity to still have Y-directional specialisation, or the engineering education that primarily targets those who come with study specialization as the starting point, or they can have both. I think the main pattern is that you apply for the Y-weighing engineer training that you know is good if you have a letter at the bottom, and vice versa, but of course there may be someone applying for it here on the cross. The background for doing this is just some of the things that this staging message refers to. Almost half of professionals change their plans after two years — or they may have had those plans all the time — and want to build up in order to get study specialisation. I think that's because many of them think that they'll have the opportunity to take higher education open. Then we can say that we give them the opportunity to build up and right to do it after the end of the profession. But we can also say that we have such good experience with the Y-road in engineering education in the field of related engineering education, that we should put this in order and make it easier. Is it so that we imagine a pile of slab bags that are school-tired and not particularly interested that are now going to fit into engineering education? Think about what these students and students are investing. Point 1: They cancel income for three years, and point 2: They take up student loans — a loss of approximately 1 %. One and a half million. I think kr. In addition, we have the experience that they are among the most interesting and sought after in the labour market. What surprises me very much in this discussion is that the opposition is not more concerned with those who are prepared for study. They can now choose the Y's. There's an incredible amount of competence they'd miss. I want to encourage the opposition to go a little bit round with itself and its own knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1951	Since the Political Quarter in the morning at four o'clock at eight o'clock openbert is too early for the representative Harberg so that there are misunderstandings, I shall explain what is the theme. Vocational training is perceived by many students as a blind track compared to the flexibility of higher education. This is what we now want to do. On my side, I understand that the representative Harberg is talking about vocational training. He refers to her as a second-class education compared to academic education. For us, vocational and vocational training is one of the most noble things we have in our education system. For me, it is alarming that both the Right Party and the Advance Party with the representative Tord Lien continued their little heroic struggle against raising the status of professional and engineering education. The scary image drawn by the representative Lien about poor quality in future engineering training with professional letters as an input is not very dressed. I would like to point out the very good results that are now experienced with the Y-way in engineering training. There is no bad experience with this, on the contrary, where students are compensated for any lack of physics and math skills that make them complete with the qualifications required. I would like to say that the experience gained by many institutions needs to be further developed and further developed, so that institutions can benefit from it even when it relates to student groups in the ordinary engineering cycle, which are certainly more common in the future. It is the responsibility of educational institutions to organise the education, so that everyone ends with the learning outcomes described and to be achieved by the students. So the opposition says there are big and heavy objections to this. Yeah, somebody's coming. But the social partners are for this. They point to it as a good development and a good direction. But some went against it. They went on the basis that they could not continue to adapt education, for example. advance etc. They weren't against the very way to do it, but they were afraid to lose the possibility of custom education. That's of course what's clouded with this offer. That's what has to be the starting point. In the future, the student will have a much more diverse background, and institutions will need to increase their height.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1960	I'm going to stop at Stortinget, and this is my last chance to say something school-political from this pulpit. Then I'm going to do it by repeating a big worry that I have, and that I've taken up several times here in the Storting in different contexts. This applies to students who are not average students in the average school. It is those students who are weaker or stronger than the average student who are purely professional and with a starting point that makes them have special challenges. School research clearly states that the most important factor in school is the teacher — the skill of the teacher, the level of knowledge of the teacher, etc. But that's another factor that the school can't immediately affect, and that we also know is very important. It is the starting point of parents — the level of education of parents more than economic wealth. Getting away from what you can call a resourceful home is a big advantage when you get to school everyday and school. It's a claim, but I think the differences in Norway will increase in this area gradually. Those with the weakest starting point get relatively weaker when many improve their starting point. I believe it has been shown that Norwegian school is unable to compensate for the social differences that give such a huge impact on students' ability to learn at school. Then, in my opinion, it makes no sense to hold on to the fact that adapted education is a right that students have. We all know that that right cannot be implemented in practice in a combined class with maybe up to 30 students where the differences are so large if you don't make it more flexible and give the schools greater freedom to organize the education as they like. It's a solution you don't get by in my opinion, and it's to insist that all students have the same education even if you really have the right to adapted education. Adapted education in its extreme variant is one-to-one education, at the very level of the individual student. It's impossible to get into a day-to-day in Norwegian school. On the other hand, if students can be grouped, given appropriate education, either from a weak point of view or from a strong point of view, much longer has been achieved. That freedom should be enjoyed by teachers and schools, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1969	The right heart supports the proposal to determine what skills and skills the students need to meet with the working life of the future. But in this context, I am particularly concerned about one finding in the evaluation of the Knowledge promise. It has been found that the fifth basic skill — digital competence — has not been given a natural place in school, even now nine years after the adoption of the reform in Stortinget and seven years after its entry into force in school. The competence of teachers continues to vary greatly. Even more worrying is the fact that Norwegian teacher training has not yet taken on board the fact that we have a curriculum called the Knowledge Promise, which requires them to train teachers who are able to train students in such an important and central area. I call for a warning, and I urge the Council of State to take real action. There's a lot of good going on in mathematics at the nursery. But I want to quote what the six school researchers who have written the TIMMS report Progress, but far ahead, concluded with regard to 8th grade: «Despite the positive trend, we are still a long way from the goal that Norwegian students should have good knowledge of mathematics that will help them further in their daily life and professional life. We're still below the level we had in 1995 at the 8th and below the shellamide point. What was considered to be weak in 1995 cannot be considered as strong in 2011.’ 52 pst. by the South Korean and Finnish students, at peak levels 4, 5 and 6. The corresponding figures for the OECD were 32 p.m., and Norway was well below 28 p.m. So we have some challenges. Even though we see some points of light now, we must not forget that we have a job to do, perhaps especially with the maths discipline. Renewal of the professions has been important for the Right. We've been a proponent. Now, when many good proposals come from the government, I'm a little surprised that there's something missing from the level of ambition in order to implement them. It's okay that we get 20 pst. multiple learning places by 2015, but we know that in 2015, thousands of students will still be out of learning space if we don't give up the pace. It is good that we should be given the right to adapt and nomination in the professional fields, and it is good that we should have the right to build up. But when the Council of State asks the opposition to go a round with itself, I demand that the government also go a round with itself and find out when to tell Norwegian rivers about when to benefit from the new vocational training.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1983	It's been a good debate. There has been a long debate, and it shows that there is a great deal of consensus in many cases. But I have to say that during the debate it has seemed like the position, the majority, thinks that everything is sunny and happy in school. The message shows that it is not, and that is why we have received the message. The message shows what it takes to make things better in school. Then we have to take that truth over us. You can't stand and praise yourself, as a lot of people have done. So to the representative of Eldegard, who pointed out that the Progress Party was not in a joint remark on equality. I can reassure Eldegard that the Progress Party is very happy for those who will choose untraditionally, but we won't force anyone to do so. We want them to have such a good advisory service that they are fully able to understand what they are doing, what kind of competence they must have, what kind of health they must have, at all, what it takes to pass that education. I must say Aasen's posts amazed me. She said numbers are best suited to Bislett. I've never heard such a thing before. Is it really the case that the Workers' Party should remove all grades throughout the course of education? It's totally unimaginable that it's possible to have such a lewd way of dealing with words. In this case, they will have a larger job if they are to remove all numerical characters, for this is not only true here in Norway — this is an internationally recognised way of measuring the level of knowledge they have. At least the progress party won't work for it. But we want you to give continuous and good feedback, along with grades. That is why we are very pleased that a unanimous committee supports the feedback comments mentioned in the case, which show that we have too poor a culture of feedback. That is why we are very pleased that a unanimous committee is joining our proposal. What is also important in terms of grades is that it gives a much more accurate feedback to students, parents and teachers. When students go from 7th to 8th grade in high school, there is a shock that grades can often become for someone. There's a lot of people who don't know what's in a number character. If these receive a good feedback that supports the ratings, there will probably be a more accurate and better feedback for those I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e1994	To the last post of the Council of State: I was encouraged to go for a round. I can go round about this, both on the platform and outside this hall, and I'm not going to change my mind. When I did not take a line on this after the State Council's articles, it is because I am sure that the Council of State agrees with me in the heart of the matter. It was the Council of State when we discussed this topic in the Chamber a year and a half ago. Then there was one representative in Stortinget who argued for what was in the communication now, and it was the representative of Truls Wickholm. He has leave for the time being and cannot defend what he has tricked the majority of the Storing to vote for here today. That's why I didn't want to hang this bad proposal on the State Council. I give full responsibility to the Workers' Party. You boast of the Y-way. Yes, the Y-route is based on a subject-specific education – that plumbers should take VVS engineering training. Then it's specially arranged. As the representative Bremer said from this pulpit 10 minutes ago, this has to compensate for the lack of competence in mathematics, physics and chemistry. That requirement is not stated in either the notification or in the Committee's observations. So you no longer have to compensate for lack of skills in mathematics, physics or chemistry, as the requirement is today. It is absolutely right that the colleges have had a choice. They've had the choice between having standard technology education, having a Y-way or having both. But now the bulk of the population realizes that people like me, who don't know anything about technology, but who have old public subjects that are very similar to study specialization, are going to be able to take the Y-way. I would be able to become an engineer by skipping a lot of the technology in engineering training and taking the Y-way with people who are trained plumbers and have worked in the plumbing industry for years. I should be able to go that way, but of course I wouldn't have a chance to do it. Those who have 15 weeks of math, cancel. Now we're going to fill in here with candidates with 3 weeks of math – when already 37 pst. Strikes out, most of them because of poor math skills. I'll get back to what I said in the first line change. The plural says that ‘When entering through Coordinated Recording, the calculation of the character score shall be carried out in the same way for all applicants, irrespective of whether they come from preparatory or professional study programmes’. So if you have the grade 4 with 15 hours of math, it's worse than if you have the grade 5 with 3 hours of math. It's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2012	The representative of Svein Harberg has spoken twice in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2015	There was a need for a brief comment. I would like to thank Tor Bremer for clarifying that he does not believe that vocational training is a blind track. What made me take the floor was that he followed up with a very strong accusation that I spoke down the professional subjects. He suggested that it might have been too early for me today to follow along. Perhaps it was difficult to follow here in the hall, for I shall now say what I said in my post: ‘Diploma is a great education, and society needs skilled workers. Vocational training is self-employed and valuable training.’ It's really not talking about vocational training. I hope this is resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2027	The representative, Gunvor Eldegard, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2030	I just wanted to answer Mr. Thorsen from the Progress Party. It is good that she thought it was nice that girls and boys were very untraditional – I think it is important that they are very untraditional. The representative then spoke about better advice. That's actually what's in the comment that the Progress Party is not in it. That's what I think is so unbelievably strange. I'm glad the rest of the committee is behind such an observation, the Progress Party is actually not here. I would like to say again that it seems to me that in the next case, all the parties are united on gender-neutral protection obligations. Then we'll have to continue working on gender-untraditional choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2040	I also need to make a comment or a reply to the representative Bente Thorsen. I do not know if it is a misunderstanding, whether she heard poorly after or not understand what I meant – metaphors – but pallet placements are best suited to Bislett. I believe that is an image that can be used, but is not suitable for school-Norway. This does not mean that the Workers' Party is opposed to grades in secondary and secondary schools. Then she has to draw things very out of context. Characters are a sort of way of sorting the queue into higher education. It gives feedback – yes, but it’s very simple compared to a lot of other ways to give feedback. In the case of feedback, the representative Tingelstad Wøien has read from the assessment code earlier. That's where the content is. I don't want to go back to the kind of grades and feedback I got at both high school and high school, where it said ‘Very good’ or ‘Good’. It was the only written feedback from my parents and I got it. Today, there is much more detail on both content and performance, and you get very good information on how the student stands in many parts of the subject. That's much better. What research shows is that grades for young children, at primary school, do not work – it seems the opposite: children become less motivated. One of the three main goals in Norwegian school is to increase motivation. Introducing something that has been documented will lead to less motivation will not cause the Workers' Party. Nevertheless, I must be able to use metaphors that competition and ranking are better suited to the sports track than to primary school. Then I hope that's understood.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2051	I sign up on the list of speakers to take the whole and the full fun of the proposal to change the Y-way and coordinate recording. I believe that this is a good proposal, and that it is precisely in the interests of ensuring that we proceed – in the light of the experience we have, which is successful in terms of the Y-way in engineering education and in some other areas. It is not the same proposal that was discussed in the main hall one year ago, which was about giving general study competence to everyone with a letter. This proposal is important because it will lead to good engineers, but also because the situation in which very many students are going to choose higher education is: What am I going to be when I grow up? - I don't know. Then Mom or Dad says: So, little boy -- little you -- choose study specialization and take math, because then all possibilities are open. Then you might do it, or you might choose to build on it after two years in a professional field. What's important about this proposal is to say that if at some point you were to come up with those thoughts, and you're a school-interested and professionally interested electrician, there are the possibilities there. In fact, it is of great importance both to complete the diplomas that we so incredibly want more people to complete, and because we get good engineers – if they were to come up with those ideas. There are some very important policy choices in the future that will be decided at the next elections, especially in two areas: one is privatisation, which is much more extensive and dramatic than this debate has so far shown. When, after a few years in Troms County, applications were accepted for the privatisation of approx. 20 pst. of higher education places, there is a major change in the school structure in Troms. There are not so many students who will choose a private offer until the foundations of the schools in the northern state have changed. There is a huge change in the whole map in higher education. The Swedes have tried it – there is no need to introduce the Swedish experiment into Norwegian school. Second, there is no evidence of knowledge or research to suggest that numerical characters at the stage have anything to do with improving learning — not at all. Number characters help to confuse teenagers rather than educate teenagers. Because you get so occupied with a number – and not the reason why it's there. The job we do in assessing learning is important to get more learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2062	I really just have a brief comment. There's something that concerns me, and I think it can be like a false premise in front of the election campaign for the fall: I think the historical background is being under-communicated. It was the representative Aspaker who put me on my mind, and he referred to the measurements that were made in math for the eighth grade. I also know that we have previously been involved in measuring what the exam result was for those who graduated from the tenth grade in 2010. What I mean is that we forget – and as I think it is sub-communicated – is: When were these started at school? They started school as six-year-olds, in 2002, 2003, etc., i.e. before the start of the Knowledge promise. What worries me is that the results we're now measuring can help us propose changes in school that we just don't need. The reason why I'm saying that is because the concerns that come with the eighth grade are the opposite of what comes with the fourth grade. We have to make things work in school. So we'd better add first aid, like that. New GIV is, on top. I urge all my colleagues – including in the future – to bring with them the historical rug. Consider that the Knowledge Promise was launched in 2006 — with the introduction of curricula and all the work that teachers did at the time. The first six-year-olds from there don't go out of tenth grade until in three years. What is the result of changes in secondary education, the electoral profession, the labour market — what is the result of changes in the measures we are taking in secondary education now in the field of vocational education — we do not know until long after 2020. President, I'll let it sink in.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2071	I record that both the representative of Aasen and the minister of knowledge insist that characterisation is not a matter of concern. It's obvious that there's someone who misunderstands here, who will misunderstand, or who doesn't get it all. The Progress Party says that we want a combination, with grades as a complement to continuous feedback and thorough evaluation. We believe this could be good for the students. It was for the sake that I wanted to take the floor, so we got a clarification here. It must not be left for anyone to believe that the Progress Party will only give figures at primary school level. The students and the parents are just going to have the opportunity to know what's behind the characters, so we don't want to change any of the things that the position or the majority have here. We're 100 percent behind it, but we want both- and. Sometimes it has to be allowed. Right in this case, it's so important that it's definitely in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2080	I just wanted to underline what the representative Thorsen says. I can assure the representative of the Aasen that there is absolutely no one in this Chamber who has called for only grades. We say as Ole Brumm: yes, thanks, both parts, both quality and good feedback. I'm a little surprised by the enormous aversion it might seem that the government parties have against characters. They want it for national tests, it's okay that there are grades for 13-year-olds, but for 12-year-olds – no, it'll rage Norwegian school, based on the arguments you can hear here. I liked the other representative of the Aasen parallel to the sport. It's just where you can get inspiration on why competition is important, because in sports it's allowed to be good. In sports in Norway, we practice sports heroes. We grow the good ones, we cheer them up, we stand there proudly as Northug, Bjørgen and the rest of the team get over the finish line in front of everyone else. Then we are proud – that's okay – then we grow our heroes. Why can't we have that mentality, that mentality, even at school? Why can't we also be good here, and cultivate good talents in our school? The representative of Eldegard said that it was important for women to choose a profession. Well, I think it's important that women have choices. I believe that the women who stood on the barricades 100 years ago and fought for women's voting rights and women's right to participate, did not fight for the self-declared feminist socialists to direct moral barbarians against elections that they thought were traditional, or not. They just stood on the barricades for the right to choose without being convicted for it. In conclusion, State Council Halvorsen was concerned that there was no desire to privatize the school. No, the Progress Party wants to put the school out of business, but it still has to be the public that pays. It's a little sad to hear when the government parties talk against opening up competition, because they talk like they don't believe in public school, as if they want to destroy the public once you open up competition, as if the public school is going to be wiped out, weakens. But that's not what competition is about. I have so much faith in the public school and the good school we have that I think private schools could be a good supplement to public school, and not erase it, as they express concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2091	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2094	It was basically the Council of State that made me take the floor. Anyone who reads the Right Programme will see that we have a very balanced school policy. We have nothing to learn from Sweden, on the contrary, Sweden has now learned from us and concluded a school settlement between the government parties, the Environment Party and the Social Democrats, where they are approaching the Norwegian law. It is fantastic to hear the representative Tingelstad Wøien standing here and boasting so carelessly of the Knowledge Lift. I fully agree that this is a very good school reform, but we also need to worry about those who go to school today and who still have the challenges they have. I'm going to stop where I started: the teacher is most important to the Right. We need to invest in good teacher training, more continuing education, better teacher trainers and new career paths. All of this is important in order to achieve good quality in public schools. There it starts – it starts with the teacher, and it ends with the teacher. And that's kind of what I want to be the last word in this debate in this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2103	The representative Henning Warloe has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2106	I'm not going to say anything other than my party trap Elisabeth Aspaker said, except that it ends and also starts with the student. Then it's, I think, an important point that the students are different, and in my opinion they're going to be even more different in the years to come. The representative Marianne Aasen said that competition doesn't fit in at school, it fits better on the sports track. The representative of Marianne Aasen is a lady. Research shows that there are considerable gender differences in what stimulates different students. The girls are social, they can plan, they work well in teams, and they slip into the way the school is organized today. Many boys need firmer frameworks, they are stimulated by just competition, and they need to get out more. That's why it's a call from me that there needs to be more flexibility in designing and organizing education even according to gender differences, because they are unfortunately present, and are quite large.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2111	First to the last character debate: I think we have to realize that those who do well are motivated by grades, while those who wear out don't. I have had a problem with reading and writing problems, and I still remember across the body how bad it was when I received poor feedback. It wasn't motivating at all, it was really a reason to feel shrunk and small – not to master at all. So you people who think it works, you're wrong. And we who have these problems can do well, despite the fact that the characters may not have been so good. The reason why I take the floor is that the representative Hanekamhaug's claim is related to women – about the feminists, and that they were not involved in school. I can tell you that one of the very first feminists, named Mary Wollstonecraft, in 1792 gave out a feminist manifesto, where one of the truly revolutionary ideas was that women should be educated, and that women should take their responsibilities in society in line with men. You can't forget that. The leading Norwegian feminist, Katti Anker Møller, was very concerned with education. She thought that education was the key for women, and that women should take social responsibility on the same lines as men. This debate about the girls' freedom to choose to be socially responsible, I think, is dangerous. I think it's scary and dangerous. It is not that the Norwegian feminist who has promoted the right to vote and the welfare state in Norway has held such a view that the point is to be at home and bake cupcakes. No, the point is to be a responsible member of society, and not least a sea could generate income, so that you really have the freedom to make your own free choices. There is education a key, and therefore the school is so incredibly important. It is incredibly important for girls in Norway, and it is equally important for girls around the world. That's what makes women manage to take care of their children, that they're not poor, and that they actually survive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2118	The representative Marianne Aasen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2122	The representative Karin Andersen had many good points in his response to the representatives of the Progress Party. I can document it with Anders Dysvik, researcher at BI: He says that in working life and at school there is a small group that is motivated – they are the ones that can become no. 1, point 2 or point 3 – all the others are de-motivated by that type of ranking. What motivates, both in a good working environment and at school, is an experience that there are meaningful tasks, it's that you contribute to something, that you do something exciting and interesting, that you develop yourself, and that you get feedback from the community – that's what motivates. That is research documented. So to this with the market. The comment from the representative Hanekamhaug confirms exactly what I said in my post: The Advance Party has a market thinking around school that I don't think belongs in Norwegian school. There we disagree. And equality: the feminists she referred to were socialists, they were radicals, and they were the ones who fought for the right to vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2131	The representative Anne Tingelstad Wøien has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2134	I thought it was good to hear that the representative Aspaker agreed to take some of the historical considerations, and that is reassuring. What was my concern was that we didn't. I think the debate is very much about that we don't. We have to remember that we put six-year-olds into school in 1997. So we're going to have an extra year at school today, and we haven't gotten any more of it. With regard to the Knowledge Promise, there was a cross-political consensus that there was a need for reform. What has been shown is that it has had no impact on the effectiveness of the professions. We're going to take that over. Then I will also end where I started: I talked in my post about the student, and the Central Party believes that it is the student that is the most important thing in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2143	Now I'm going to try to stick to Stortinget's fair play rules, which are not to provoke unnecessarily those who have used up their speaking time – but I'm going to be tempted by my ability. [[Laughter]] To the discussion about numbers at the nursery: I was in a debate in which I, by the representative of Warloe, who was present at the same event, came to understand that the question of the introduction of numerical characters as mandatory for all at the nursery was not exactly what the Higher Education Group had fought intensely for – on the contrary, they were against. Because I know them as enlightened people, who know how to get involved in research: there is no evidence that there is a good method of learning in Norwegian school. This, I think, was very diplomatically said – given that the speaking time of the right-wing representatives mentioned has been exhausted. So a few words about the promise of knowledge and what you've got. Some of the summary of Reform 97 was that there were many positive activities in Norwegian school, but it was not certain if it had led to increased learning outcomes. The attention from activities to learning outcomes has been incredibly important for the results we have now. In addition, the concentration on basic skills comes to be able to read, write and calculate is incredibly important for all people in all situations – across disciplines. Around this, we have built up a culture of assessment, feedback, qualification of teachers, early efforts, etc. We from the red-green side have taken on board what was widely agreed, and have in many rounds adjusted the reform. The most important thing we did was change the whole system of national tests — in dialogue with teachers, in dialogue with parents. Remember, there were boycott attacks and a high level of conflict when it came to this. We moved the samples, and we abolished some of the samples. Now this is something that School Norway uses to a slightly different degree, but the level of conflict is completely different. I mean, key no. 1, if you are going to change in Norwegian school, you are going to do the job, the teachers – it is the seventh and last to meet the students every single day. That's where the learning happens. If you have this as a starting point when implementing reforms, you also have the opportunity to succeed. Therefore, the main success criterion for the red-green implementation of the main elements of the Knowledge Lift is adjustments and cooperation to get it where learning takes place, namely in the teacher-student meeting. In the end, I just want to thank the teachers and the students who have done this job. We've made the frames, but we haven't done this job that's done. [[The President clubs.]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2160	That's when the time for speech is up, Councillor. The representative Mette Hanekamhaug has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2165	The representative, Karin Andersen, based his statement on a claim that I had stated that I did not want women to take education. I can assure the representative that my reply was an answer to Mr Eldegard's previous statement, where she felt that it was very important for women to take a professional position. What I addressed in my post was that the important thing is not that women necessarily choose professional subjects, but that women themselves choose which course of study they want. Then one can turn it around – in the sense that in my post I was positive that more women choose study specialization. As a result, more women opt for higher education, and in 10–20–30 years more women may lead this society further. I hope the representative Karin Andersen sees what my post was meant to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2174	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2177	I took the word to a little bit of the historical reflection of Tingelstad Wøien. I think the Center Party and the Christian People's Party share the recognition that putting six-year-olds into school and giving them an additional year, has not given any results. Nevertheless, this government may have spent the large amount of money on giving several hours. We can come back to history, given whether it's going to give better results. I don't think so. I want to thank you for a good, exciting, big and important debate. The primary task of the school is, in cooperation and understanding with the home, to make children and young people winners in their own lives. Their recognition and appreciation are the key to motivation, job satisfaction and a sense of dignity. They are precious, and they are our future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2184	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 2-9. At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 10 and 11 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2214	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party, Center Party, Christian People's Party and Left 5 minutes each. Furthermore, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for a replacement of lines limited to four lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2225	Let me start by saying that the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee will have its summer party at noon. 18 today. So I recommend Stortinget to treat the last two matters neatly and neatly – without any demeanor for the previous debate. The two matters I am pleased to submit for treatment today relate to Report. St. 14 for 2012–2013, notification of competence, and Prop. 57 L for 2012–2013 on changes to the Defence Personnel Act. The Communication of Competence has eight main areas. It is about new skills needs, the defence sector such as competence organisation, diversity, flexibility and access to competences, cooperation and strategic alliances, more women in defence, the defence sector’s personnel systems and implementation of the competence reform. The theme of the communication that will perhaps be most focused in today's debate is the introduction of gender-neutral protection obligations. I expect that many of those present now – and those who may be coming later – will focus on the importance of it. That's why I'm not going to use my entire post on it. This is a brand day. There has been talk about this for a relatively long time. When the snowball started rolling in the political organizations, it went quite quickly. It is a day of joy because on behalf of an overall committee – largely – I can present a proposal for the introduction of gender-neutral protection obligations. It's an act that I'm proud to do on behalf of the committee, and it's a brand day for the nation of Norway. In addition, of course, there are other parts of the competence message that I should first mention, and which it is important to look at. Let me also thank all those who have made good recordings along the way – BFO, NOF, COL, NROF and others – or who have made clear representations to the Committee after the government's communication. The aim of the notification of competence, as I understand it, is to ensure that the defence's personnel preparedness is good. When it comes to meeting new challenges in the future, the human resources will meet our challenges. I see that there is something of the genuine and what you want to achieve with this message. We're going to be preparing for the future defence with the processing of the statement of competence. The challenge is: Is that possible? I took the freedom to read Innst. O. No 94 for 2003–2004, which was based in Ot.prp. No 60 from the same session. It was introduced, among other things: the compartmental order mechanism. Let me read a little section of something that was said there about the background of the bill on the departmental order: ‘The defence’s overall objective is to ensure a balanced human resources structure in terms of number, competence and age composition adapted to the tasks of the defence, defined strength structure and organisation.’ That was the target. In addition, I should read a note that was written by SV’s representative, Kjetil Bjørklund, in the same setting. He said there – when discussing the special age limit – the following: ‘This member further indicates that the Government considers permanent arrangements for the departure of officers aged 35 to 45 to be necessary. The defense has spent enormous sums – more than 2.6 billion. crowns — in final packages, in order to achieve the objectives of a more appropriate age composition of command staff.’;» The big challenge is whether we've done it. Did you seem to be doing what you did ten years ago, or is the fact that you haven't done it, and that's why you're going into it more seriously now? In any case, I perceive that the special age limits and some of the challenges of the command system are the basis for addressing what we are doing now in the position that exists. At least I wanted to be more specific in the proposals of the government, the Council of State and the Department. There are a lot of things here that you have to deal with, but you have to start with it now. So you have to look in at workgroups, and you have to evaluate things. I think what we needed now is more action and maybe less judgment. I'm going to think that you've had quite a while to experience some of the problems that have arisen, and then to continue those problems rather than grasping them, I don't think I'm necessarily the best. In this way, I'm afraid that for a period of time, the defense will put even greater challenges on it until you get the new elements in place. But since it's Friday and soon summer, I'm going to be positive and say this is going to be safe. Let me also say a few words about Prop. 57 L, concerning amendments to the Defence Personnel Act. The main focus of the proposition is changes in access to paid or unpaid work outside the defence sector, which shall apply to both civil and military personnel. The focus is on the obligation to dispose — a clarification — of someone from a position because of health, safety or other reasons, and the reasons given by the government were the time that flexibility was needed. It also contains a legalisation of the applicable departmental authority to carry out the necessary regulatory adaptations. In addition, there is an opening to be able to execute penalties after educational tests in the case of people who are drinking alcohol in the wrong way, in order to sum up a little in general. The main discussion within the Committee has focused on the need for amendments. The recordings of the trade unions concerned — mainly BFO and NOF — have been based on the opinion that today’s legislation is comprehensive. I record that the majority believe that this is not the case, and that this is why it is being tightened up. It is completely legal, but you have the State staff manual that regulates things well today – at least according to the organisations that have made recordings. It is also believed that there is an experience base for resolving possible conflicts and that there are contractual arrangements between the parties. The majority of the Committee – consisting of the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party – does not support the new definition of defence personnel, because there are so clear objections to it. The same majority also believe that what we are doing here is giving the Ministry of Defence an extended access at the expense of the Storting. I expect that those who belong to the position may have some nuances in relation to my and the majority's view, but that they themselves will come back to it. The majority of the Committee will not support the tightening up of access to beekeeping, as we believe it is well regulated today. It is also a concern on our part that the present amendment is based mainly on a single matter – perhaps a few individual matters, but primarily on one single matter. We think it might be the other way around that you should then resort to this type of tightening, since it is at least claimed by others that this works well. At any rate, I would like to claim that Norwegian soldiers are basically loyal. We have consistently good soldiers who respect the set of rules and what they have to operate within, and then show that you don't have that confidence in them by tightening up as you do here, we seem to be little smart and little tactical, to use such a concept. In addition, there has been a relatively large focus on Section 7, which changes here. On the part of the government, proposals were made for a change in which a term referred to as ‘other reasons’ was introduced. It was clear to the committee that they seemed too vigilant. The Committee has proposed an alternative legal text to Section 7, which takes into account the wording ‘specific reasons’. The Committee's approach is to clarify the definition of ‘specific reasons’. The main reason for this is feedback from relevant organisations – BFO, NOF – which have been clear that what is open to the government initially had the best intentions, but one went too far – the concept of ‘other reasons’ is a rather vague concept. Some may say that the concept of ‘special reasons’ is not any better, but the Committee, through its written examination of the matter, has tightened it up and pointed out how it should be perceived. In other words, we do not want a freeway where the department itself has to go in and define how this is to be understood, and since the text of the law – at my discretion and at least in the committee – is now agreed from all parties, we have made a move necessary. It is not often – during this period, at least – that a committee stands together on an amendment to something promoted by the government, so I will give tribute to the entire committee for having focused on doing a good draft even a little better. With that, I recommend the setting of both gender-neutral protection obligations and everything else.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2265	«When we discuss defence issues, battalions, squadrons, vehicles, vessels, aircraft, bullets and powder often become much. It is well and good and also has to do, but none of this works without personnel. So let's not forget the people of such a complex organization as the Defense is. Without humans, none of the systems will work.’» ‘What kind of competence does the Defence need in the future, and how should this competence be recruited?’ I don't expect anyone to notice that at the beginning of my post I was now quoting myself from the debate we had exactly on the day one year ago, June 14th last year, namely the debate on the long-term defence plan. I then spent time stressing the importance of the defence personnel. The announcement of competence was then announced, and many looked forward to it. The HR message was received very positively in the Defence, in various defence-related organisations and not least in the Defence Personnel Organisations. That's good, because this is an important topic. The HR message is a good review of the challenges in this area and needs to be seen as the start of an important work on personnel and competence reforms in defence. For the last 10–15 years, the defence has undergone major structural changes — very major changes. It also has consequences for the competence that defence needs. One year ago, the Stortinge decided which defence structure we are going to have in the next few years. Then we must also ensure that we have personnel and competences that are in line with the agreed structure and that we have skills that can meet new challenges in the coming years. More themes should now be looked at. I mention some of the most important: The command mechanism The relationship between civil servants and military staff The role of staff The role of the reserve staff Measures to increase the proportion of women in the defence How to get more apprentices in the defense? How does civil education combine with a career in Defence? Should we open up larger sections of employees from other countries? Annual management set up against other means of dimensioning the organisation. Let today be the start of a wide-ranging reform work in Defence – a work where the people of the organisation will be at the centre. Today will be a historic day. The same week that we celebrate the 100th anniversary of women's voting rights, the Stortinget decides to introduce gender-neutral protection obligations, and as it looks: by a large majority. It was just supposed to be missing. Other speakers from the Labour Party will touch on this very important matter later in today's debate. Let me say a little bit about the proposed changes to the Defence Personnel Act. The Government Parties support the proposal to impose restrictions on the access of defence personnel to carry out missions outside the Defence. The specific responsibilities and powers of the defence mean that the personnel should be more vigilant in respect of certain beekeeping activities which can be said to be military in character and identified by the activities of the defence and which can thus undermine the legitimacy and reputation of the defence in the population. Let me also stress that the corresponding duty of loyalty is made clear in the law of both the police and the public administration, the health services and the judges. I would also like to stress that the establishment of specific rules for the recruitment of defence personnel must be in dialogue with the personnel organisations in the Defence. So to the debate that has been on the bill on dismissal from the position. Personnel organisations responded to the concept of ‘other reasons’ in what was proposed in Section 7 of the Defence Personnel Act. The whole point of the proposal was to legislate on the applicable law, namely that the defence should be able to dispose of the position in cases where such disposal is necessary either for health, safety or specific reasons. Let me make it clear that the purpose of the bill was not that disposal could be used as an alternative to disciplinary or service law response under the Disciplinary Act or the Civil Service Act. The rapporteur has presented it in a tidy manner, and it is a unanimous committee that is behind it. I refer to the proposals that are proposed by the Government parties in case No. 10th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2320	The representative Myrli has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2323	Thank you to the President-in-Office for the excellent treatment of these two matters which we have to deal with today, and which at least do not bear the mark of military combat. In some areas we separate layers, and this has been well explained by the rapporteur and the previous speaker. This means that I can go over Section 7, which has been explained by the rapporteur. In any legal process, I think it is important to have trust as a starting point instead of this continuous development towards several law-making powers. If you're going to solve a problem, there's got to be a problem. I think it is important – in a forum like this – to keep it clear when using the law as an instrument for the implementation of proceedings. The representative Myrli is quite right that this time it's not so much about balls, powder, planes, weapons, etc., but about people. In this human form of treatment, it is also quickly done to stumble into some paragraphs on the way. I'm not going to say that someone has done it, but it's a good idea to have this in the back of your head. Both the introduction of new laws and the amendment of existing laws should always give good reasons for doing so. In this case, the Right believes that the proposed extension of the term ‘defence personnel’, proposed in the new Section 3, paragraph 7, is both unnecessary and unfortunate, and we will oppose the proposal. The proposed amendments will in practice allow for the exclusion of civil servants in all parts of the defence sector from the normal provisions of the State. Nor will the right support the proposal to amend Section 4a of the Act relating to beekeeping, and believes that the access of defence workers to beekeeping is already well covered by the State Staff Manual and the existing ability to agree on additional necessary reporting obligations directly with employees. Nor can we see that the bill is very well justified. The right is of the opinion that Norwegian soldiers and other employees mainly meet the requirements of loyalty and show sound judgment in labour matters. In our opinion, there is every reason, in particular, to show our soldiers our confidence in these kinds of questions. We are therefore fully in line with the ombudsman and workers’ organisations in the defence sector, which are also critical of several of the proposed changes to the law. The Ombudsman has made his views known in writing and his opinion on this matter and these issues in an excellent way, and it is a little surprising that the government parties have not chosen to listen more to the Ombudsman, the BFO and the NOF. So some comments on the competence message: As the representative Myrli was in, there is no need to hide that there were great expectations for the message. Many have waited a long time for a so-called new policy from the government in the field of Defence and Competence. The right conclusion is that we agree with much of what is described in the communication, but in some areas the government does not go far enough in its proposal. Nor is the notification sufficiently focused on the many new tasks that require acute competence and specialisation. Defence will in the future be even more marked by change processes and the need for flexibility. This will mean that more and more functions and jobs need to be filled with professional personnel. For future defences, the communication does not take sufficient account of the need to put in place human resources and career paths that are well adapted to the need for specialisation and continuity. In a high-tech defence, the defence must increasingly compete with civil society for human resources in the country of origin. We already see this in several sectors of Defence that lack key personnel. In addition, this means that the defence must continuously have a human resources policy in place that helps to make the institution attractive and robust, and that it is perceived as stable and secure. Many suggest that the personnel challenges in defence were given too little space and attention when dealing with the last long-term defence plan. The time has passed when the personnel were standing on the platform and left with any displacement drawer when a function moved from one place to another. In the last year, we have seen examples of how key personnel — including apprentices — are treated in the context of military redundancies, which are not good examples of future solutions. Both the Department and the Chief of Defence should have foreseen and understood the personnel challenges and the financial additional costs that arise when personnel choose not to join the relocations. There are many of these examples. The right would have expected the government in the notification to take into account the introduction of a system of special orders. The conclusion is that the human resources arrangements must be explored, including the command system. It is therefore in the last week of the four-year period — after eight years — that the government sends a major and important case for investigation. Enough about that. The right had naturally hoped that these investigations had been carried out at an earlier stage, because the need for specialist and key personnel indicates that the possibility of horizontal career paths needs to be cultivated far more. The current departmental order system does not take sufficient account of the need for new career paths and does not address the existing needs of the defence to relate to specialist competence. In this context, it is also important, in my view, that the command organisations can become more contributors and pre-missors for command mechanisms that ensure the defence's need for specialist competence. It must be a cross of thought that Norway is the only – the only – NATO country without a two-pillar command system. There is little doubt that, in the future, we will see a defence that will be made up more of the personnel employed. A specialised command system, which also includes qualified personnel, will be able to ensure better recruitment, care and recognition of professionals. So the Right, like most of the others, is very pleased to contribute to the majority proposal today on the introduction of gender-neutral protection, which will also strengthen the defence and recruitment of key personnel. How we succeed in the greater integration of defence into civil society will be among the main defence policy choices we face. Integration will be a prerequisite for important efficiency gains, on which defence is very dependent. This applies to both logistics and service production, but equally to the integration of environments of expertise that allow for professional synergies.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2349	In an 1885 speech, Gina Krog said, 'Unlike the civil equality of women is heard, there is a very special objection which, in most people's opinion, does not apply much, but which I will not fail to touch. Women will, it is said, be favoured by opening up the right to vote, not bearing the same burdens as men. Women do not defend their country in war, they are exempt from military service. I should first like to remind you that it is not up to women themselves to choose whether or not they want to exercise military functions. From a certain point of view, this can even be seen as a right deprived of individual women.' Now it should be said that Gina Krog was probably not a great champion of the introduction of the duty of protection for women, but that was not the point of this quote either. The point of the quote from Gina Krog is that she correctly analyses the pointlessness of making different demands on different sexes. I am very pleased that the Stortinget today decides that we want to introduce gender-neutral protection obligations in Norway. Then we get a formal, completely equal defence as one of the very first countries in the world, if not the first. There are several good reasons to do so: First, our ability to defend depends on good access to skills for a new time, and at a time when more women than men are taking higher education. We need an ever more acute and broader competence. In the defence, it would be pointless not to have as broad a recruitment base as possible – for purely practical reasons. Secondly, the defence of democracy is the strongest instrument. It is subject to democratic control and obtains strong legitimacy through the duty of protection. I believe that most people will agree that when you double the basis for the duty of protection, you also increase legitimacy. It's a very important part of Norwegian defence. At a time when many countries are shutting down their institutions of protection, Norway is strengthening its own. Thirdly, the defence has a monopoly of violence, unlike any other public structure in Norway. That means that from we're little, boys and girls are told two different things about what power use to defend the country is. The use of power is performed as a male, which the boys shall do. I have no doubt that it creates gender roles and different expectations for the sexes that are very unfortunate. The state cannot tell by its legislation that different characteristics belong to different sexes, and at least not the characteristics that must be used when we are most at risk or that are most dramatic. And that's the very basic argument: everyone should, of course, have equal rights and obligations in Norway regardless of gender. It should say itself, but it took 100 years for us to vote for everyone – and thus become a democracy – until we also give the same obligations to everyone. Then it is not to hide that both I and many other representatives – I expect – have received some enquiries from parents and others who are angry and reported about unfortunate incidents related to girls who have served in the Defense Department. Sexual harassment is completely unacceptable, at least in an organisation such as the military. I think the best solution to that is to treat women as of course having a natural place in the defense – women are no exception in the defense, women should not lead anything special in the defense. It has to be a matter of course. Therefore, I find it reassuring that the defense itself has been such a strong driver for gender-neutral protection obligations. I also believe that they are well capable and well aware of the need to do a job before the introduction of the gender-neutral protection obligation, both mentally and practically. Norway is one of many countries that has been a strong driver of UN Resolution 1325. Now we have to show that we're also taking it seriously at home. Finally, this political victory, which the Stortinget adopts today, is primarily the victory of young people and of the guardians themselves. They're the ones who've been driving this through. It is the youth parties that have pressured their mother parties to change their policies and promote full equality in defence, and it is not least those elected by the guardians who have done a great job and who have made themselves visible to all those who have taken part in this decision. They have argued in a way that has made it impossible for almost all the parties on the Storing to be against. So almost on the day 100 years after the introduction of everyone's voting rights, I want to congratulate everyone on the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2380	The cancellation message Competence for a new time is likely to be best remembered for what is not there. The country’s meeting showed that the time was overdue for the introduction of gender-neutral protection obligations and, after the notification, the decisions were taken as pearls on a string and resulted in proposals today, as several have mentioned, for the introduction of gender-neutral protection obligations in Norway. It's a historic decision, and it's going to be a milestone in gender equality history. I'm sure it's also going to be a milestone for the Defense. The protection obligation ensures the recruitment, it provides the opportunity to choose among the best. The paper describes the competition for candidates in the job market. There is no doubt that it will be difficult to meet the future's requirements for competence in the defence sector and to achieve the ambitions of the Single European Act. If we are to cope with the transition to an intervention defence in the area of personnel and competence, the obligation to protect is a prerequisite. In the Central Party, the duty of protection is strong. The batch applet says: «The people's defence is a defense of and of the people. In the defence of the people, the duty of protection constitutes the loadbar.’» But the duty of protection for men alone is no more than half a solution to meet the future's competence needs. Just recruiting is one of the most central elements of the message. The defense must choose among the best girls and boys in the youth school. Dealing with advanced materials and equipment and analysing complex tasks can do the same for both girls and boys. Therefore, fortunately, the Defence itself would also have a duty of protection for everyone. In addition, I believe it is a paradox that until now we have not recognised the defence of the country as a common responsibility for the entire population, despite the fact that it is 100 years since the rights of the rest of society became equal for both sexes. It is a clear expression of the quality of social development in Norway that when other countries remove it, we extend the protection obligation. We are constantly debating the role of defence, where the duty of protection is still essential to anchor the defence and defence of the population. It is a great strength of Defence that we avoid professionalisation, but rather build up a fully competent and operational defence based on the duty of protection for everyone. The defence is a job with many peculiarities, and makes special demands on its employees. I also think that there are many myths in the population about what it means to work in the Defense. However, the opportunities offered by the defence are also unique – opportunities for long-term, good jobs. The natural follow-up to the transition to an intervention defence is a review of the human resources of the Defence and to adapt them to the challenges and needs that will arise in the future. We can rightly call this review a reform. In the opinion, the Committee points out that a number of investigations will be needed in the wake of the notification, which will serve as a basis for the implementation of the reform. I believe that it is essential for the defence to be competitive in the labour market and to attract the right skills, and to preserve the legitimacy and social role, that there be a greater diversity among those working in the defence sector. The changes shall improve the ability of the defence to meet a high rate of change and dynamics day-to-day, which requires peak competence and quality in all areas. I'll describe the conversion of Defense as a success story. One of the conditions for this was that you started early, and you took into account future changes. This is also the case in the area of competence in order to ensure that in the future we will also have the same fighting power and operational capability.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2404	With regard to the proposition of some changes to the Defence Personnel Act, I refer to the comments of the Christian People's Party in the vote. We're behind the committee majority recommendations. With regard to the communication on how defence can develop competence for a new period of time, the Committee agrees on all that the Communication asks the Stortingen to decide. But the Christian People's Party does not support the majority's proposal, where the government is asked to submit to the Stortinget proposals for the introduction of gender-neutral protection. Some people use words like "historical" about the decision it is now added to. With a glimpse in my eye, I would rather say that it is equally historic that the government parties are involved in a decision in which the government asks to do something it has not even proposed to the Stortinget. Here, there's probably a lot of suppressed expansion, which it might be good to get out. So to the matter. It is not the case that the Storting today adopts the introduction of female protection obligations. No such proposal is made by the government. It is also not conclusive. There are several uncertainties about what this really involves in legal, economical terms, in terms of building stock, in defence materials and in other ways. The Christian People's Party has decided at its national meeting that we are in favour of a mandatory session for both women and men, but against compulsory protection for women. We want the defense to recruit more women. The defence will benefit from it, but it should be done on a voluntary basis. The defence can do much more to better facilitate relationships in such a way that more women choose service and work there. The spring protective debate has been the slogan. It obscures some concrete consequences and necessary clarifications. The case had been served with a normal investigation phase first, so that the Storting could have a sufficient basis for decision. Let me do some points. Is it the case that compulsory protection of women would lead to increased economic equality? First anamunensis Astrid Kunze believes that, on the contrary, it will put the work for economic equality back because women have already discontinued their studies and careers because of pregnancy and childbirth. She concludes that as long as women are not equal in the labour market, female protection will lead to increased pay gap and poorer career opportunities. She has a point, as the Christian People's Party is concerned with getting an investigation into the further work on the matter. Secondly, should the duty on women be voluntary, or should it be possible for women to be forced to do first-time work? What is the word ‘commitment of protection’? In a joint article by the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs of April of this year, they present the duty of protection as a voluntary arrangement. They claim that ‘only the best and most motivated are called’ for military first-time service. That's how it works for boys today, because the defense needs fewer and fewer soldiers. The number of people performing the full first time service is probably only 10 pst. of the year coal, i.e. around 20 pst. by the boys. But it's still a crime not to meet if you're called. What is the legal content of the duty of service imposed on young people by the obligation of protection? In the Christian People's Party, we want to investigate a modernized model of protection. We have developed a few points: Both women and men are called to a mandatory session. This is partly implemented, but the session system should be further developed to provide better information on the service and job in the Defence. Once the defence has assessed who they believe is the best and most motivated for military first-time service, the selected parties are offered a contract in which it is clear which obligations they assume by entering into military service and which obligations the defence assumes. The contract includes obligations to meet for first-time service, repetition exercises and, if required, mobilisation. Everyone else still has a duty of protection in the sense that society can call them into community service if a crisis or war situation so requires. But only those who have received military training through the initial service can be provided by the Defense for military tasks. Our intention with this sketch is to bring the debate down from the slogan plane to the more concrete and constructive.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2443	People are the defence's most important resource. I am pleased that an overall committee is so clearly expressed in the vote and now in this debate. I am at least equally pleased that such a clear majority is in favour of making the duty of protection gender neutral. I will come back to that a little later, but since the Left is not represented in the Committee during this period, I feel the need to link some brief, general comments to the need for a comprehensive plan on how the relationship between defence personnel and competences can continue to develop. Because there is no doubt that this is important if we are to ensure a defence that can deliver in relation to the expectations we as elected people – and not least the population – have. That is why this is an important message. Much of what is promised in the Communication is agreed by the Left – like a Joint Committee. We look at the message as a beginning of a process, and note that there are many moments that need to be investigated and evaluated further. Of course, we want to welcome that, and look forward to getting some more concrete recommendations to deal with. Anyway, let me say a little bit about some of the areas that are important to the Left. We have e.g. long thought that there is a need for a certain restructuring of the grade system. Among other things, we want to reintroduce several sub-office degrees and introduce a specialist corps based on NATO standards. This will improve career paths in defence, and the latter could also be an important contribution to addressing some of the challenges of the current command system. Here we are in line with the comments from the opposition parties in the setting. Let me also stress that it is important to increase predictability of acquisitions through longer contractual relationships. In this context, I would also like to say a little about the need for competence and the relationship between those responsible for protection and those employed. A modern threat picture requires increasing professionalisation of defence, faster response time and greater focus on advanced weapon systems. For most of the Defense Operational Departments, it would be more profitable — both in crowns and in operational capacity — to have been contracted rather than to have been recruited annually by the Data Protection Officer. However – and this is important to emphasise: for a good number of departments, it will still be most useful to base the production of strength on vulnerable teams. So the left has as its starting point that we want to strengthen the professional part of the defense, but use a smaller part of the guardians as the base for this. So another important theme in the setting. In general, I believe that there is a need for more women in the defense, something that both the message and the setting focus on. There is no fundamental reason why women should not be as well represented as men in defense. The low proportion of women in defence has long been a challenge, and some measures have been taken that have contributed to some steps in the right direction — but not enough. That is why I am very pleased that the Committee is following so clearly a number of national meetings of the various parties, including the Left, which took a clear decision that gender-neutral protection obligations should be introduced in Norway. The Left, of course, supports this proposal, which is made by a majority of the Committee, and will vote in line with it. I agree with the previous speaker that this is a historic decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2464	In the bill, the Ministry of Defence has proposed changes to the Defence Personnel Act. First, it proposes rules for taking orders outside the defence sector, second, clarification of the order system, third, clarification of the disposal obligation, and fourth, the exhalation test for per mille control as a basis for punishment. I want to say something more about access to take tasks outside the defence sector. Employees in the defence sector, as other civil servants, have a general duty of care to protect the interests of the main employer. In recent years, there have been isolated cases of links between special departments in defence and the environment within, for example: the private safety industry. Such individual cases are unfortunate and underline the need for clear and predictable legislation on access to outside jobs. The role and integrity of defence personnel is in a special position. The regulatory framework must support the attitudes and culture expected of the personnel. There is a clear link between the professionalism of the soldiers and the trust of society in the defence sector. There are several professional groups that have rules on when you can take on a job for others than your main employer, and others have been involved. This will include, for example: made clear in the Law of the Police and the People's House, as well as in the Health Service and for Judges. The proposed rules of the Defence Personnel Act make it apparent that defence personnel should refrain from acts that are suitable for undermining the defence's own values and the trust that rests on society. These are adapted to the defence sector and will contribute to greater predictability. So for comments on Meld. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. Since the 1990s, the defence sector has undergone one of the most extensive and successful changes in the public sector in modern times. The transition has given us a modern response defense, among the best in Europe. I am pleased that the committee in the vote stresses that humans are the defence's most important resource and absolutely crucial to the defence's ability to deliver. The defence staff have a high level of competence and use it every day in operations outside and at home. However, the area of personnel and competence has not undergone the same conversion to the response defence as the rest of the defence has done. One of the most important strategic challenges of the sector is to ensure that we have the right people in the right place in an organisation that is fundamentally changed. There are several reasons for this. Competence is a crucial factor in the ability of a modern response defense to solve missions. However, the workforce area has been, to a limited extent, an integral part of the transition to the response defence so far. Furthermore, the sector must expect increased competition for the most appropriate employees. In the conversion of the defence, we have taken the right steps in time. We also have to do that with regard to our most important resource, the human beings and their competences. Defence capability requires continuous development and renewal. The Communication of Competence draws up the framework for a new policy of competence in the defence sector, a reform of competences. The aim of the reform is to provide the defence sector with an attractive and secure job in the future, and that the sector has the right people with the right skills to work out its tasks in the future. The need for change concerns both the sector as a whole and the individual activities. However, the defense has been challenging in particular. The military profession is unique and requires specific professional development. Technology control, specialisation and the ability to act quickly and correctly in complex operations will characterise the future needs of defence, recruitment and education. Competence must be included as a factor in more areas than in the past and be a central element of management and governance. A wider range of tasks and faster changes mean that defence needs greater skills, more flexibility and closer cooperation with others. Diversity increases the ability to change, innovation and innovation. A better flow of knowledge and competence between the defence sector and the rest of society and a greater degree of cross-sectoral cooperation and exchange will be provided. The paper contains a number of measures that we will take immediately. Furthermore, it outlines some important future options, which require further analysis. Today’s human resources and career paths in Defence are insufficiently adapted to the need for specialisation, depth competence and continuity. The defence needs fewer generalists and more specialists who can complement each other and contribute to a value chain in order to achieve common goals. This will be central to further work on human resources. This week is 100 years since women received voting rights in Norway. It was a historic decision and an important roadblock for the Norwegian community. 100 years later, it is high time that women's rights, duty and ability to contribute to the defence are also recognised and equated with men. In setting the current long-term defence plan, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence underlined that the introduction of gender-neutral protection is primarily a political issue. The government provided the basis for a political debate on the topic in the communication of competences. This has been held in all the political parties since the notification was submitted. I am very pleased that this has resulted in the historical proposal for a decision to introduce gender-neutral protection obligations in Norway. It's of course incredibly pleasing that it's so much excitement. The defense doesn't need any more people. Tomorrow's defense must be committed to quality. Defence needs competence in more areas than before, and competition in the labour market is increasing. Recruiting from all over the population is therefore important to ensure the most suitable candidates and to maintain the operational capability of the defence. Research shows that a minority of under 20 p.m. of the total never becomes a normality. The few female officers are very visible. Many people may experience a pressure to adapt to the majority culture. These officers therefore need more female colleagues, role models and diversity. The introduction of gender-neutral protection obligations is a victory for equality in general and for Defence in particular. Defence needs to evolve in line with both new skills needs and societal development. Gender-neutral protection obligations are a natural part of such a development. It is a fundamental value in Norwegian society that duties and rights are independent of gender. Gender-based protection obligations are one of the most recent social systems that distinguish between men and women. Instead, we finally get a real general protection obligation. Competence reform is the next stage in the transition to a modern response defence. The operational capability of the defence sector depends on the success of recruiting, developing, applying and maintaining the right personnel with the right skills and motivation. I am pleased that the Committee welcomes the fact that the defence sector is first out in the state with a thorough analysis of its competence needs. Further development and renewal of the public sector is a central objective of the government. Labour is the clear majority of Norway’s national wealth. Norway is a knowledge society today, and the defence sector shares a number of competence challenges with other parts of society. The notification of competence must therefore also be seen as part of the rethinking of competence, staffing and management across the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2495	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2498	I have a simple question for the Council of State: Does the Council of State agree that the Storting's proposal for Section 7 of the Defence Personnel Act is better than the proposal that the Council of State itself has promoted?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2503	These are special reasons. I am very pleased with the work that has been done in Stortinget at that point, and I am very pleased that there is agreement on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2508	There is no doubt that the Stortinget has made a significant tightening in what was the government’s proposal for Section 7, first paragraph, where someone could be ordered off their position for so-called ‘other reasons’. It's a very broad term, as the hearing bodies that were there when the committee had open consultation on the matter were unambiguously on would weaken the legal certainty of the individual. In the proposition, in particular, one staff case is referred to very frequently, almost strikingly frequently, I would say, to be a proposition from the government. The size has unanimously decided to tighten up the legal text, so that it now reads ‘specific reasons’, and there is also a unanimous comitology which clearly states the constraints that follow. My question is: what was the government's wish to achieve when it introduced the concept of "other causes" into the proposition?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2515	Where there was no indication of health reasons, or of the other reasons mentioned, there should be an opportunity to have other reasons for disbursement. Then we are very pleased that there were “special reasons,” because it has not been so that this has been considered as an opportunity to do exactly as you would. It has not been the case at all. There has been a need to have a law home in very special cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2520	Now it looks like it's going to work out that we're getting gender-neutral protection, that is. In the United Kingdom, it is estimated that the number of people living in the United Kingdom has increased by more than one year. 10 pst. of youth schools will serve the first-time service and, as the Council of State has said, based on the best and most motivated, to be called in. Does the Council of State see that the universal protection obligation is the best way of recruiting in the future, or is there any other option, such as contractual protection obligations, for those selected for military service through the session obligation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2525	The duty of protection is very strong in Norwegian society. We see it when we carry out investigations into what people think about the duty of protection. The connection to the duty of protection is very high. It also reflects the political debate here today. Everyone agrees that we should keep the general duty of protection. What is also interesting is that when questions are asked about the protection of the population are also to cover women, there is a very high level of support for this. We need to separate the duty of protection from the provision of first-time services, because the provision of first-time services could vary from time to time, depending on how many defences actually need for first-time services, and now there is also much more concern that that service should be meaningful for the individual. Then we will do a thorough investigation work to look at this legislation, exceptions, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2532	The attitude says a little about the specialty of the defence force and the employees there, and the council also said in its statement that military profession is in its own position. How does this match the text in Section 3? That's what it says. ‘Defence personnel means military personnel and civilly appointed personnel of the Ministry of Defence and underlying agencies.’;» This leads to linoleum consultants, as Wesenlund in his day said, also becoming defence personnel. It sounds a little strange to me. Can the Council of State say a little about why this change is proposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2542	At a time when we see that we need both civil and military personnel in the defense, an increasing proportion of some civil servants become civil servants. They may be right to be civil servants, but they still belong to defence personnel. Then you have to separate that from the military profession, which is very special, which has its own legislation, which has its own career paths and career opportunities. It's important, it's very well clarified in the competence message, which is also being addressed now. At the same time, there have been several people here that we should have had a specialist order. Yeah, we'll see about that. Some might say, for example: the divisional order is a kind of specialist order. But we're going to keep the military profession. It's important, and we're going to work on that further when we're going to look at competence for the future in Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2547	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2550	As many people have been involved, today we're going to write history. In a half-hour's time, the majority decides that we should introduce gender-neutral protection obligations in Norway. An equal society is a society in which both men and women have the same rights and obligations at all levels, in all areas of society and in working life. The defence may not be an exception, as a single committee writes. The Constitution states that all citizens are obliged to defend their homeland. In 2013, it cannot be the case that the concept of citizenship covers only men. The defense needs the best, both women and men. I am pleased that there is such a broad dissension about the decision we are about to take today. But it is not that there has been no debate on this issue. Spring’s national meetings have been proof of this, where youth organisations have been at the forefront. That is good, because it is those who will be affected by this decision. But I have to say that I am a little skeptical about some arguments that have emerged in the debate. In the evening post today, the leader of the Norwegian Women's Association, Torild Skard, says: ‘Today, women who so desire may enter the military. Instead of being a right, you make it an obligation. That means that someone has to enter the Defense that doesn't want to do it." Point 1: Everyone, regardless of gender, should have the same rights – it should just be missing. But you can't just have rights, you have to have obligations. When women require that they enter the boardrooms, that they be treated equally in all areas, this must also apply to the Defence. Paragraph 2: It is not that all girls are now to be forced into the defense, as the representative Svendsen claimed would be the case. This clearly combines protection obligations and first-time services. Of the approximately 60,000 people in need of protection, about 9 000 carry out the initial service today. The defense picks those who are most motivated, and best qualified, so it's not like all girls or boys are forced into the defense. They get the opportunity. This week, as many people have been in it, we celebrate that it is 100 years since women were given the right to vote. Since then, Norway has evolved into a country where both sexes are similar in most areas. But we don't have full equality -- we're on the right track. 100 years after the women were given the right to vote, we're tearing down another chance. I want to congratulate ourselves on the day, because this is historic, and then I want to congratulate the trust-elects, who are sitting at the gallery, for the amazing job they have done. So over to the personnel areas it's important to do something about. The defence has undergone a substantial change over the last 10 years. We've gone from a mobilization defense to an intervention defense. The question is whether we have a staffing system that is adapted to our new response defense. My immediate answer to that is no. In particular, it is the departmental command system and the mechanism for the workers who appear to have a clear potential for improvement. I would like to point out that the Committee has always been clear on these challenges. Here are some things that it's obvious that you have to deal with. Firstly, the Departmental Order must not be thrown out of Defense when they are 35 years old and at their best age. There is an experienced command to respond to the needs of the response defence in 2013. I cannot help but understand that the defence loses valuable competence as a result of today's departmental order. Secondly, we need to ensure that we have a system that takes better care of the workers, for whom there is an increased need. Today you only have the opportunity to be in Defense for a maximum of nine years. Here too, the defense loses valuable competence. Thirdly, analyses of the future competence needs of the defence must be based on the real needs of the defence. If you don't, the competence work becomes a lot of talk and maybe empty words. So, that's when the job starts. The work in the future must ensure that we have a forward-looking personnel system adapted to our new response defense. Here are changes to the departmental order system and arrangements for the officers who are the key, and I hope we will soon get it in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2580	I agree with the comments made by both the case rapporteur and the representative of Kristiansen to Section 4 and, to the extent, Section 7 of the Defence Personnel Act. However, I cannot avoid mentioning once again what appeared to the Committee and obviously also to the command organizations, both for the NOF, for the BFO, for the COL and for others, as a major interference in the legal protection of individual employees. It has now been sought to remedy the situation by clarifying and clarifying the rules to be applied, and also making the occasion and access to disbursement more restrictive than the government had proposed. There is no doubt that the personnel and the competence of the personnel will provide the Defence Force with enhanced operational capability in the future. We can basically buy and acquire as many planes and tanks as we want, but without competent personnel it helps very little. One of the issues that will be important in the future is the order of command we have. The Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party are clearly in favour of a specialist scheme, which also includes personnel and adjustments in the departmental order system. Today, not only is the problem, as the representative Eva Kristin Hansen so rightly pointed out, that many end when they're about 35 years old, because they have to get out of the defense then after the order of the department. The problem is that very many people end very much before. The average in Maritime Defense is about 26 years, and the reason for that is simple: When you are in a election when you are 30 years away, if you are going to continue in Defence or if you are going to choose a civil career, it is quite tempting to choose a civil career when you know that your military career is ended when you are 35. That's why you use up a lot of the very good competence that the staff possess, right at the moment they're at the height of their competence. One of the greatest privileges of being the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence is to meet the many women and men, military and civilian, who represent the Norwegian defence. Whether we're in practice a bike call night in North Norway – that's part of it – or we're visiting our soldiers in Afghanistan, whether we meet the many healthy or damaged veterans who have given so much in service to Norway, or we're visiting KNM "Fridjof Nansen", who has now taken place in the Gulf of Aden again, there's one thing that stands out for everyone: they give everything in order for us others to be safe. They sacrifice and risk their own security and their own lives for our peace and freedom. There's something that we in this room have gradually become better at recognising as important. One of the Armed Forces slogans is ‘valuable to defend’. Let me therefore say why the Right has chosen to support the whole heart about an equal protection obligation. It is not a measure that will increase the proportion of women in defence dramatically, simply because there is a difference between protection and first-time service, but it provides opportunities for it in the long term. And in principle it's very important. Let me nevertheless underline one thing: there are many who say that the defense is no longer about going far and carrying heavy. That's wrong. The defense is also about going far and carrying heavy – but not just that. Modern defence needs varying competences, and the defence itself will have an equal level of protection. Equal protection is to give men and women the same rights and obligations, and it is important to ensure a modern, viable and diverse defence in the future. In fact, the Constitution was rather foresight in 1814. Under the Constitution § 109, every citizen is obliged to defend the country. But in 1953, at the time of the adoption of the protective duty law, the Stortinge believed that this radical equality from 1814 had gone a little far, and reserved the duty of protection for men. In that year and the week we celebrate the anniversary of women's voting rights, it's time for us to implement a principle equality in one of the last areas where there's a difference. What is worth defending should be defended by all of us, men and women.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2597	It's an important message we have for treatment today, Competence for a new time in Defense. It is in many ways a fundamental reform that is now on the table. The defense is in front and is in a phase with a long conversion time, and they have to prepare for what lies ahead, which we now see clear signals of, in a good way. The Committee has also unanimously stated this in one of its first comments in its opinion: ‘The defence of which the first establishment in the country shall carry out a thorough analysis of the organisation’s competence needs’. So that's the first floor in the state to implement it. There is no doubt that it is the people – the individual – in the Defence that is the most important resource. We now see that the competition for labour is becoming quite strong, and has been over time. Then the average time in the defense will also decrease, when you are lured by other offers outside the defense. As a result, critical competence can disappear quite quickly. Defence has now become a modern response defence, the most modern in Europe. The last decade is marked by extensive change. The question is whether we have followed up well enough with the defence personnel and competence structure in the policy. That's the question. Fortunately, therefore, the government has come forward with this good news now. The ability to attract, develop and manage skills will be one of the main challenges of defence in the years to come. We can buy as many fighter planes and frigates as we like, but we need competent people to operate these planes and ships, among others. The personnel and management structure was developed to a large extent for an invasion defence before, but we must now realise – and have adopted – that there is a need for a defence of competence. The defence must then have a personnel policy that allows us to recruit, retain and further develop both military and civil personnel with high motivation and appropriate competence, adapted to the future tasks of the defence. I think it's right to draw up at least six points that I think you have to go into carefully the further work ahead: We must have a comprehensive revision of the command structure. We need to establish plans and systems that provide both horizontal and vertical solutions for the career cycle, as well as corresponding pay systems that provide a horizontal career. I think it's important to also look at the pay system. The defence must still have an attractive education offer, which I would like to stress that it also has today. The 35-year limit has to be looked at to the greatest extent, to see if it is adapted to the future's defences, which I doubt. We must also have a defence that today and in the future places greater emphasis on family policy – it must be even more important. The day-to-day work of the Defence must be made more flexible. There must be a review of family measures in order to create a more flexible working day. I think this point will be very important in the future, when we see how family patterns evolve. Consideration should be given to whether the practice of annual management is to some extent a hindrance to the rational management of personnel. It's a lot to deal with, but fortunately, there's a lot of qualified people in Defense, and I'm looking forward to the future as well. The Committee has underlined that the foundation of defence is and will be the duty of protection, and that this is the foremost recruitment base to meet the needs of the defence for daily services and for the training of soldiers in the future. I would also like to stress this with competence. In this context, the key must be an increased organisation for the flow of competences between the defence sector and the rest of civil society. I think that flow has to get stronger in the future, if we're going to get the Defense to work in the new time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2643	Today, the Stortinget writes both defence history and gender equality history when we are about to adopt the principle of gender-neutral protection. There are essentially three main arguments: Firstly, the very duty of protection: the obligation of protection is the bottom line of our defence and binds the people and the defense together. An equal duty and right for women and men to defend the country is fair, and my claim is that it will strengthen the commitment to the protection itself. Secondly – Defence needs competence: defence needs the best, regardless of gender. Too many women have not seen the defense as a natural career path. As a result, the defense misses valuable competence. The defence must now be able to choose the best, the most motivated and the most suitable from both sexes. Thirdly, the gender equality argument: the defence has great opportunities, which many women are missing today. In 2010 it was only 8.3 pst. of the persons who completed the initial service, women. Thus, the introduction of the mandatory session of women has not helped to increase the proportion of women, either in the initial service or in the defence. The target of 20 pst. Women's share in Defence is now reaching a realistic goal. It wasn't the defense that had to be convinced, it wasn't the trustee system in the gallery that had to be convinced, it wasn't the trade movement that had to be persuaded, it wasn't the political youth organizations that had to be convinced, nor were we defence politicians in the Great Britain who had to be persuaded, nor were the people to be persuaded. It was the political parties at their national meetings that had to be persuaded. After we've seen the domino effect of the political parties, which have been involved by many, the majority is now in place – first the SV, then the Center Party, then the Left and then the Workers' Party. Then came the Right Party and the Advance Party. The Christian People's Party is still known against it. I have to make a Christian People's Party a visit, since Svendsen, of course, spends a great deal of her speaking time arguing for why the Christian People's Party is against. But that's a very strange argument, because there's no principle approach to this matter in the Christian People's Party. When even the building mass is used as an argument for why women should not enter the defense, I wonder very much about the agenda of the Christian People's Party. You don't have to find out if the building mass is suitable for women in the defense, in order to decide on a case in principle. This is a fundamental issue: either you are for or you are against women and men having equal rights and obligations. After our national meeting was completed and the report of competence was already in the process of being discussed, we took an initiative to achieve the widest possible political settlement. I am very happy that we have succeeded. It is a great advantage that there is a broad dissension about such a case. State Council Stroem-Erichsen has stated, at the latest in the evening post, that the government is changing the law and is seeing an introduction from 2015. That means that today's 16- and 17-year-olds can put the defense on the list of plans they have in life. So it's not true that more than one total should earn first-time service. The number of defence needs will vary with the security policy challenge. By making the duty of protection gender-neutral, the defence can at any time choose the most suitable from all the population, according to their needs. The defense is the state's all, the most powerful means of power, and it's not what sex you have that determines whether you become a good or bad soldier, but what we carry with us in our heads and our hearts. Congratulations on the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2673	I see it as very fine, quite at the tame of time as a magnificent, to be involved in such a historic event, as the introduction of gender-neutral protection obligations is. Now we get the general duty of protection we've been talking about for years and as long as I can remember. However, I shall say something about competence: In the Notice. St. 14 for 2012–2013 underlines the need for strong cooperation between defence and civil education institutions, with a view to achieving a greater diversity of competences and flexible and effective solutions. In the north there has been such cooperation between the university and colleges through the Defence Study Centre in Inner Troms. This study centre, which was established on 1 January 1994, has contributed significantly to enhancing the competence of defence officers and employees in areas where the defence has highlighted needs and where there are no other institutions in a reasonable proximity to the place of employment, which can adequately meet their needs. This has also had a great effect in recruiting qualified personnel for the Defence. I am aware that no educational institutions are mentioned in the present position, but I would like to point out with this article the great importance of the study centre in Inner Troms. This is actually a success story about a study center that has served all parties very well. If we are to achieve the intentions of this big message, then – in my opinion – the cooperation of the study centre with universities and colleges must be continued and strengthened. Such cooperation will also meet the training needs of both the transferees and the commanders, who, after a contract has been concluded, are to leave the defence and into civil employment. In my opinion, this cooperation between the study centre and higher education institutions should be organised and managed by the Defence at local level.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2686	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2689	It is a crossroads of thought that you are now going to change the law for defence personnel, all the time we know that the hearing bodies and the trustees' organisations see it as protected in today's laws. If you're a little conspiratory, you can almost wonder if there's a degree of doubt about the ethics and morals of the defense staff. In that case, there is a doubt that we in the Progress Party do not share. I would like to link some comments to the communication of competence: A communication of competence such as this should, in the opinion of the Progress Party, have been more concrete and had some clear objectives and proposals for action. This is a message that says something about what to do and what to do, but there is no good target management. If you had been involved in target management, you would have promoted clear and concrete action and done something about it quite as soon as you had not waited so long to present this message, as you have actually done in this case. It is consistently stated in the notice that there is a need for fewer generalists and more specialists. You talk about the need for qualified employees, you want to recruit and keep them. It is also important to want to take care of personnel, so that they are not lost to civil work. Then it's a cross-thinking that we have a lot of competent people in the defense who have to stop when they're 35 years old. If it had been such that the symbolism of recruiting and retaining had been as far-reaching as the government wants to give the impression, what the other NATO countries and the other Nordic countries have done, namely to introduce this specialist system, would have been done without having to go to a new investigation on that very issue. To me appears like a great paradox. On one of the trips I have been on with the committee, I met a very up-to-date command, which now entered its 35th year. He served here in Oslo, in the Garden, and he had been out in several international missions. He has developed a very broad competence, which the Norwegian defense would benefit from in the years to come. So he's now going into his 35th year, and his time is now over. It's – with respect to reporting – very bad, and it's in stark contrast to what you're trying to say is the so-called red thread in this competence message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2702	These two things contain a lot of other things that I shouldn't say so much about. But we need to explain why the Christian People's Party has its position on the supplementary proposal – or the request decision – that the majority of people today intend to vote for. I think we're going to have more opportunities to discuss the duty of protection, and to maybe go even more deep, because everyone knows that this duty of protection cannot be imposed this year or next year. First, detailed impact assessments and preparations are needed in the defence sector. To Laila Gustavsen, who had a slight quotation from what the Christian People's Party, at Kjell Arvid Svendsen, had said, "It was not used as a counter-argument to female protection. It is the Ministry of Defence itself that says in today's Evening Post that this cannot be done until 2015, and that buildings are also part of what they see as part of that whole structure. So to the matter: The representative Svendsen has prepared for the Christian People's Party's view in this. We could imagine trying out a more modernized duty model. But instead of bringing more people into an already fragile model – which is strongly in the minds of people – and when we know that it's only 10 pst. We want to think about how to achieve a more modernised and renewed duty model. Many people have said that this was a victory for equality. They refer to the 100th anniversary of voting rights. One of those who have opposed this duty model, then sat in the diplomatic lodge and was hailed from this pulpit for their work on equality. It's interesting to see that the Norwegian Women's Association is so clear. They say, «NKF considers the obligation to protect women as a total misunderstanding of the concept of equality and the intentions of equality laws.» We in the Christian People's Party want to think a little bit more carefully about whether this really helps promote equality. The representative Svendsen quoted Kunze, who speaks of women losing protection. The career opportunities, and the pay gap in Norwegian society — and the decline of women after they have had a child — can be partially improved by one year of maternity leave and subsequent reductions in working time. For men, the pay after the first child is relatively similar to that before the child arrived. So from a gender equality point of view, Kunze might well be thinking about and maintaining the voluntary military service provision, as we have it today. These are some of the assessments that the Christian People's Party has made, and that's why we don't want to go in for – even though we want many women in Defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2724	Let me say a little more about the debate that has been on the draft law on dismissal from the position in the defence, and about the concept of ‘other reasons’. As the proposal was perceived as it was, it is now clarified in the proposal, as it emerges from the unanimous position of the Committee: «Disposal from such specific grounds may not take place where the basis for disposal falls under the provisions of the Civil Service Act or the Military Disciplinary Authority Act of 20 May 1988». [[...]] Let me stress that in the new legal text there are ‘special reasons’. «as if a narrow «safety valve» for cases where the situation necessitates disposal from the needs of the defence sector.» So a few words about the order system and the proposed changes to Section 4 of the Defence Personnel Act. This proposal does not involve any material changes. It's the existing authority that the Department has today, we want to include in the law. So there's a continuation of the current right. The Order mechanism shall be determined by the «King with the consent of the Storting». That's the way it's going to continue. Almost finally: I have to make a mistake in the Committee's setting. The Government Parties note on pages 2 and 3. In line 1 and line 16, first column, page 3 the term ‘biverv’ is used. It shall be ‘bier work’. I can reassure all defence personnel: there will still be opportunities to engage in housing, sports and whatever it may be. So it has to be called apiculture, not apiculture. Finally, I would like to say to the representative Eriksen of the Christian People's Party that there is no request decision at all today. The size adopts the principle of the introduction of gender-neutral protection. The size of the store takes a decision in principle. There is no government to be requested – or one with the other. It is absolutely right to send requests to the government, but here the Storting is absolutely certain in its case. In addition, Eriksen’s contributions, such as the contributions of a number of opponents, or those who are opposed to gender-neutral protection obligations, and there is not a ‘sequence’, are marked by the fact that there are not many in the Chamber – that there is no understanding of the difference between earning first-time service and the principle of the introduction of gender-neutral protection obligations. As other speakers have also said, the obligation to protect is something more than a first-time service.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2748	It has been said several times today that the defence is in a special position. Yes, of course, because those who have to make sure that we have peace in this country must of course be in a special position. It's so rare that we have a defence debate in this room that only there's something in itself to enjoy. A lot has been said about the different sides of the defense today. But what has been given great attention is competence. I think that's fine, because there's no doubt that the competence is one of the things that's going to mean a lot to the defense. Materially, we've got one of the absolute best defenses in the world. We also have a good human resources situation today. But it's a challenge in the future, because we know there's competition from other actors who like to have competent youth, who are willing to pay a little more. A lot of people have been in Defense for many years, even with a lower salary. But that's because it's been interesting, and because it's been a giving service. I'm really hoping we're still going to be able to do that. It's a completely different defense today than what was in 1964, when I started my career in Defense. But the attitudes are basically the same. We should be very happy that we have very good attitudes in the Defence – this with a small reference to § 7, which Myrli was just about to say. I'm glad that paragraph has come, and I'm glad it's changed a little. But I remember 15 years ago, when it was about having an effort force from Norway, where some people said no, I'm not sure. We can't have that kind of defense. Of course, when the authorities have decided that we should have a mission, the staff must follow unless there are very special reasons. So a little bit to that with specialty command and departmental order. Yes, we have always said that the department order was a blindway. That is why I am very pleased that the Council of State said today that we would like a special order. For a seven-year period and in command position in NATO, I have had the opportunity to have specialist orders under me and was very pleased with the experience we got from there. A little bit about Section 4, I guess, that says something about defence personnel. I must be allowed to mention it again, because I find it very unpleasant that it has come in. The defense is in a special position, and military personnel are now likely to be confused with defence personnel. There are many people who have experience in the defense, but you must not be able to equate this with those who are sitting behind a desk doing a little bit of work. Finally, gender-neutral protection obligations. I'm really glad it happened. I should have liked to have said something more about it. My experience with women in Defense is very good, and I'm sure that will be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2769	Let me start with the important thing, that the defense crews are the most important thing – that many people have been involved in. Let me also join the representative Myrlis’ last post – first and last part – in which he makes some clear clarifications of the understanding of § 7, but also of the clear message that goes from Stortinget today regarding gender-neutral protection obligations. There's nothing we're asking about, there's something we're telling you about -- so we're clarifying the shades of this. There have been many praises. The challenge is: Does the Department of Justice deliver according to the expectations that are now created among the employees of the Defence Agency, be civil servants or officers, and not least according to the expectations of the Stortinget? I register, as I said in my first post today, that when you treated Ot.prp. No 60 for 2003–2004, the order was successful criterion no. 1st@item: inlistbox It was supposed to solve the challenges we had. Today is the problem. It's been nine years. If it's taken nine years to analyze what was brilliant, before you discovered that that's what was the problem, I'm worried. So this message is called the competence message, and one of the questions I have is: Does the Ministry of Defence have the competence to analyse the problems they themselves face? If they don't, we're not going to solve anything. Then we're going to end up with lots of good words without substance. Let me remind you of one thing: the representative, Tore Nordtun, who is now in the end of his most active career as a staging representative, had an interplay not so long ago about the command system and the recruitment challenge of Defense. Then I thought that the Storting largely agreed on what the problem was. There were great expectations that when the message came, the solutions would be in place. But – with all due respect – they are not. Now you have to start further investigations. I think that the Stortinget would have been at least as pleased with a message that made concrete proposals for solutions, as for a message that is being submitted that we are going to continue our investigations. Investigations are sometimes important, I have full understanding and respect for that. But how long are we going to figure out? The whole time we're investigating, we're not solving the problems that the defense is facing today. That is why I believe that action is sometimes more important than continuing investigations. What the reason is, I don't know. If this is the case that the department is not sure of its own analysis, if there are doubts about the message that the representative of Nordtun presented during his interpellation, it should have been said here that the order system is not the problem. But I realize that it's actually one of the big problems. Then we don't have to figure it out. Then we need solutions. In this way, I think that today's government is defensive about coming up with concrete solutions. You hide behind investigations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2780	I also really wanted to take the word on such a historic day. I like it when it says that ‘the characteristics of an equal society are that both men and women are represented at all levels and at all levels of the labour market’, and that the defence should not ‘be an exception’. It also states that there is a strong desire to ‘increase the proportion of women’ in the Defence. I who have worked for many years, and have worked for women in human occupations, have also worked with girls in Defense. It's a pleasure to see the developments it has been, and I want to tell the girls who went ahead in the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s that I'm very grateful for what you've been doing today. I also have to say that I am very impressed with the defense when it comes to recruitment. I see that one in the setting wrote that we want more girls into the defense, and I am very happy about that. But I have worked a lot with recruiting for an untraditional profession, and a lot of people can learn from the job and the systematic work that parts of the defense have done. At least I have to say that I'm very impressed with it. So I hope that today's decision – even if the duty of protection alone is not directly passed on to several girls into the Defense – still inspires. And I think that actually does. Such a decision will inspire more people to see all the possibilities offered by the Defense and will give an overall better defence when they can recruit on a much larger basis. So I'm completely in agreement with Laila Gustavsen: Congratulations on the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2792	Defense is a complex organization. It's everybody, I think, very much in agreement. When we look at what we get from new ships, aircraft and new materials at all levels, we also see that the skills required are increasingly specialized. It's not the competence that you necessarily get through the old training course in Defence. Then I would like to say that when we are debating a reform of competence today, it is not an expression that the defence does not have competence today. The defense is actually one of the most competent organisations we have. In the defense, real lifelong learning actually has a pretty good sense, because the relationship between being in work and taking after education is very strong, has been and will be in the future. Then it's about being able to recruit the best. We've talked a lot about that. This is not least the proposal for a general duty of protection, for which there is so much support, important. It also gives the Defense a huge responsibility for how to handle the personnel that you get in, and also for how to manage your employees. In terms of buying material: It was said by the representative Myraune that we have one of the best defenses in the world in terms of material – I was happy to hear that, because there is a good recognition in Stortinget. But precisely the complex material makes it not really so easy to predict the future structure and competence of the personnel. So there's a lot of things in this competence message we have to work with. There are analyses within several fields. As far as the command system is concerned, no one has to believe that it is necessarily just a problem. The departmental command system has solved many challenges given that they are actually becoming specialists. So we also see that sometimes we need that departmental order longer than until they're 35 years old. Yes, many also get fixed additions. We're happy about that. But we need to have a more predictable system. It's one of the areas we're going to look forward to in the future, which is important for having and attracting people, being attractive and caring for our people in the best possible way in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2805	Many people misunderstand and think that only the oil wealth makes Norway a rich country. It's not. It is mainly high female participation in employment that allows Norway to have the level of well-being we have today. That's why it's a brand day when we end up with gender-neutral defense, a defense where men and women are equal from the beginning. We're not going back many years since there was a discussion about session duty for both sexes. There has been a positive step on the way. The criticism taken today is much more important. The scramble taken today is wiping away the difference that has historically been between men and women in the Defense. Now the defense is fully open to both sexes. I share the view of all those who have said that the core of an equal society, a truly equal society, is about equal opportunities at all levels – that both men and women are seen in all kinds of positions at all levels of the labour market. What the Storting is going to adopt today gives an extra responsibility to the Defense. Now even more motivated people come into the defense, and that motivation must not be pushed away. That motivation and the eagerness to serve not only the defense, but the nation, we and the defense must take care of. There must be a meaningful service offered. It will be the safest sign that for a long time in the future men and women will want to go to Defense, and that there will be a struggle to be allowed to be in Defense, both as Protector, Commander and Officer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2816	I took the floor because the representative Dagrun Eriksen was going to try to clarify why the Christian People's Party had argued as they did. I have to say that I might not have it completely clarified. The representative Svendsen from the Christian People's Party used buildings – not designed buildings – as one of the arguments that the Christian People's Party would have an investigation before they could decide on the principle of gender neutral protection. So did the representative Dagrun Eriksen continue to ask the open question whether this will promote or inhibit equality? At the same time, the representative Eriksen took on board all the problems and challenges we face about gender inequality, including gender equality. equal pay, and argued that today's society is not perfect. First of all, there's equal pay in the Defense and among those who deserve protection. Secondly, researchers show that some of the basics of non-equal pay in Norwegian society are that our labour market is still very divided. Getting more and a better mix in different businesses in the world of work is very important if you want to fight for equal pay. I want to say that I belong to a political party that has the tradition of not sitting down and settling down with the fact that society is not perfect. When the rulers were full of men and sport only reserved for men, when the kindergartens lacked men, or when the policy was reserved for boys, then we quotad. We have not sat quietly in the boat. We have not bought the argument that women are not needed because the arena was already taken. We have quotas, we have amended laws, and we have worked hard for equality – and that equality means equal rights, equal opportunities, equal obligations and equal liability. That is what this matter is also about. Obligation to protect women and men offers great opportunities. The initial services provide women and men with a very important and good experience, and the defence needs diversity. People need to master multiple languages, from multiple cultures, people of both sexes. In defence, humans are the most important resource, and then we're doing the right thing, we're adopting the principle of equality and gender-neutral protection. Hurray!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2833	Not to pull the debate out, but it's a real disagreement. I'm reacting a little bit, it's a little bit of a round tone to do -- maybe it's the wounds after eight years of majority rule. So it's not a question of understanding each other, it's a question of misunderstanding. To the representative Gustavsen: I said what I said about buildings, but it was actually not a counter-argument. It was inserted in a context and was an explanation for when to look at this – it is not investigated. In fact, what the representative Eriksen tried to say is an explanation of what the Minister of Defence himself said, that it cannot be implemented in 2015. That's actually how it was, it wasn't a main argument. I must also say to the representative Myrli: if he heard from us according to our points, in fact, the duty of protection is more than first-time service. We are fully aware of that, it was said in my post. To Eva Kristin Hansen, who also tried to make a case out of what was said: I asked if the duty to protect women should really be voluntary, or should women be forced into first-time service? That was a question. What is the word ‘commitment of protection’? That was a question. I have also not claimed that all women should be forced into the first time service – just so it is informed. At least that's how it says it in my script.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2844	No more has asked for the floor on the matter. 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2850	Case No. (1) The statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Development on the development of Sahel and Norway's participation in the UN operation MINUSMA has been adopted, annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2858	A total of 29 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-11, by Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 12, by Bente Thorsen, on behalf of the Party of Progress, Right and Left, proposals No. 13 and 14, by Bente Thorsen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 15 and 16, by Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 17, by Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 18 and 19, by Bente Thorsen, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left, proposal No. 21, from Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 20, by Mr Thorsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 22-25, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 26 and 27, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 28 and 29, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2895	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 28 and 29, from the left. Proposal No. 28 sounds: ‘The government is asked to set a mandatory deadline for the universal design of all schools and other educational buildings.’ Proposal No. 29 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to put in place a certification scheme for teachers in consultation with stakeholders in the school sector, to be seen in the context of the right and obligation to exercise competence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2917	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26 and 27, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 26 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a framework for mandatory mentoring in the form of an introductory year for newly educated teachers.’ Proposal No. 27 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government, in cooperation with the parties, to consider further the final certification in relation to a mandatory mentoring scheme in the form of an introductory year for newly trained teachers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2939	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 22–25, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 22 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a four-year escalation plan with a view to increasing the number of school health staff by 1000.’ Proposal No. 23 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a ‘regulatory board’ composed of parties to verify the consequences of new rules and changes to existing school-related rules, with a view to reducing red tape and freeing up more time for teachers’ core functions in school.’ Proposal No. 24 sounds: «The government asks the government to set a concrete measurement figure – 25 pst. – for the reduction of the number of red tape state circulars, regulations, etc. in school context.’» Proposal No. 25 sounds: ‘The Government requests the continuation of the education programme for media and communication as a professional programme, possibly as a ‘hybrid programme’ based on a race other than the 2+2 model.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2971	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to make the necessary proposals from the autumn of 2014 to introduce one hour of physical activity each day for primary school students, with a corresponding increase in the frame-hour.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e2986	There is a vote on proposal No. 21, from the right, Christian people, and the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to increase its share of further training of teachers to 60 pst.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3001	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18 and 19, from the Party of Advancement and the Left. Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the establishment of national secondary schools in real-time education.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that all newly appointed teachers are effectively covered by a guidance system.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3023	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to promote a plan to better integrate the purpose paragraph into all subjects and at all levels of the school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3038	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 15 and 16, from the Party of Prosperity, the Christian Party, and the Left. Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that sign language is made available as an electoral profession in secondary school.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up a national cross-ministerial plan for adult learning to make it visible and to provide better provision of relevant and good continuing training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3060	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13 and 14, from the Party of Advancement and the Right. Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to replace today’s Vg3 offer in school for students who are not offered a 2-year course with a combination of school and company training.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the financing of the vocational schools is returned to the State as soon as possible.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3082	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to notify changes in primary school teacher training as soon as possible, in order, inter alia, to: more emphasis is placed on practices and improvements related to the content of education, while at the same time confirming a clear deadline for transition to a five-year master's degree-based primary school teacher training.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3098	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-11, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to launch pilot projects in up to 10 municipalities where, in consultation with the PP service, teachers and principals of each school are authorised to decide on special pedagogical measures aimed at individual students.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size request the Government to implement binding national recruitment plans as soon as possible in order to ensure a sufficient number of qualified teachers in kindergarten and initial training.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take initiatives towards the KS and teacher organisations in order to design and introduce new career paths for teachers.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to strengthen the resources of advisory services in primary and secondary schools and to ensure that the advisers have the necessary skills.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen the practical elements of teacher training.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government, in dialogue with the KS, is asked to ensure the right and obligation of all teachers to continue training.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The size asks the government in the KS dialogue to find the necessary steps to raise the status of the teacher’s profession.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals with concrete measures to increase the inclusion of other groups of professionals in school.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: «The Government is asked to introduce a separate further education commitment for those in primary school who lack teaching competence.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to introduce the right to adjudicate on the study competence of students with a diploma and with effect from the students starting in Vg1 or Vg2 school year 2013/2014.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a comprehensive national strategy for investing in quality in higher education and vocational education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3207	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, by Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 3 and 4, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 3 and 4, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to introduce a compulsory RLE course in primary school teacher training for both 1 and 7 years. steps and for 5 to 10. Steps.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to clarify in the curriculum of religion, life views and ethics the content relating to the defined objectives of competence in the subject by 55 pst. of the hours of the main area of Christianity.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3241	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the government to change the name of the subject religion, view of life and ethics to Christianity, religion, view of life and ethics.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3256	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The government is asked to introduce formal qualifications in religion, life views and ethics for all teachers who teach RLE at all stages of primary school.» [[RLE]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3281	Then we are in the situation that only 76 representatives have cast their votes. That means that we don't have a valid decision on growth, because more than half of us have to vote. So the president has to ask that we take that vote again. It is therefore expected that six will vote against, but it is expected that there will be a lot more to vote for!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3298	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 2, by Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that all hospitals have a youth coordinator to provide information related to the hospital school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3325	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the county municipality in which the health institution is located is reimbursed for the costs of secondary education in a health institution.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3340	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to review the structure of school provision in healthcare institutions in order to ensure pedagogical competence to meet the patient’s needs for training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3419	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward, and that is: proposal No 1 by Bente Thorsen, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left Proposal No. 2, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for an obliging escalation plan for the municipal schools of culture.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3447	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, right and left, saying, ‘Document 8:104 S [[2012-2013]] The President assumes that the Christian People's Party will subsidiaryly support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3469	During the debate, one proposal was put forward by Sverre Myrli on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, which reads: ‘In Law No 2 of July 2004 59 on defence personnel is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3593	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3603	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3618	The President here assumes that the Christian People's Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-14.ana.ud1928e3654	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
