ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e28	The representative of the Svein Fleet will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e31	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Torgeir Dahl, Michael Tetzschner and myself, I would like to make a proposal on new ideas and better solutions for public sector acquisitions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e36	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e39	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to propose a low threshold offer in mental health in the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e44	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 3 – Unit – to be addressed before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e189	We are now going to have a round of debates which deviates from the guidelines for debates set out in the Storting Rules of Procedure. The President will propose the following arrangements: There is a separate debate on each proposal that is to be discussed. The person presenting the proposal shall have a speaking time of up to 10 minutes. Other articles on the same proposal have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. If someone wants further comments on the same proposal, the speaking time will be up to 3 minutes. There's no way to take a line. The number of posts is limited to two plus one short note, in line with the general rule of the Storting Rules of Procedure. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Since the debate we are about to conduct is a challenge for the electronic equipment in the Chamber, the President will ask that the representatives who want to participate wait until we come to the proposal in question, unless they come up and report to the secretary and are noted on what has been an old and good way in the Stortinget in the past. The ringing signal that alerts a change of case will be used before the debate on a new proposal starts. Constitutional proposal 1: Exclude the appointment of depositors as State Secretaries
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e208	Let me start by saying that we have this form of debate in itself makes this day a historic day in Stortinget. This is the first time we choose to give the opportunity to discuss proposed constitutions in the period for which they have been submitted. The Presidency's intention is, of course, to try to contribute to the fact that the proposals for amendments to the Constitution that exist when we go to elections should be more familiar and debated than may have been the case. We believe that it underlines the importance of the fact that voters should have an opportunity to say something about constitutional proposals before the Stortinge may adopt them, because changes to the Constitution are the most important thing we do as representatives. This follows up the three seminars we have had in the laying room, where the proposals have been discussed, but with the possibility for experts, professionals and other interested parties to take part in the debate on the proposed constitutions – which, of course, is not the case here in the Chamber. Then, at today's meeting, we have chosen to bring forward the proposals that the proposers have asked to come up with at the meeting, and the next Monday, we will debate the proposals relating to human rights issues and the many proposals available in that context. So to the proposal: proposal No. 1 is therefore a proposal to amend Section 14 of the Constitution. It is a proposal made by the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Per-Kristian Foss, Marit Nybakk, Dagfinn Høybräten, Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum, Trine Skei Grande, Snorre Serigstad Valen and signed. So the purpose is to make sure that the government cannot appoint its own big business representatives as state secretaries. The reason for that proposal is that in our parliamentary system the very top political body is the voters in elections – election. In this respect, the rapporteurs believe that there is a logical consequence of respecting the voter's judgment and the composition of the elected body. Then someone has said that it is true that big business representatives become the Council of State. This is, of course, a completely different matter, for a Council of State is constitutionally and parliamentaryly responsible to the Storting, while one who is appointed Secretary of State is not accountable to the Stortinget and thus resigns from his elected office without having to be responsible for the Stortinget. For my part, this is about respecting the voter's judgment, or to say it more formally: make sure that we avoid the situation we have today, that the government – or what is, in the constitutional language, the kingship – can actually affect the composition of the people's power. In my opinion, it undermines the understanding we're going to have of the relationship between the constituent powers. It must be only the people in elections that can affect the composition of the Storing. One can today imagine, hypothetically, that a considerate staging representative who is just performing his controlling role in relation to the government can be taken out of the Storing of the government he or she is going to control, and that is when the principal becomes so obvious. The same is true, of course, and some of the options explicitly included in the proposal – for policy advisers. Then we have suggested that the effect should be from the next choice. It will only work after the 2017 elections if this proposal is adopted. It is natural, because the proposal is not intended primarily to comment on the current situation in which we have any such cases, as we have also had under previous governments. So this is not unique. It underlines that the principle addressed in the proposal is to fix it for the future. So I would say that I have been positively surprised at how much attention and interest the proposal has aroused, because not all of the constitution proposals lead to a lot of debate in society. With regard to this proposal, there have at least been some comments and some debate, including from the professional communities concerned with constitutional matters. I am pleased that there has been quite a unison uprising that the adoption of such a constitution proposal will clear up the relationship between state powers in a basically correct way. Yeah, it's actually been so unisonous that it was hard to find opponents when we were going to discuss the same question in the laying room. To a very large extent, it has also been the response in the political environments. At least it gives me hope that this Constitutional proposal is one of the Constitutional proposals that can actually be adopted in the next period, but it is up to the next big deal to decide. If we adopt the proposal, it will clarify the principle of power distribution. It will strengthen the important principle of public sovereignty, which is an important element of the Constitution, and we can say that, in line with Section 112 of the Constitution, it would actually help to strengthen the spirit of the Constitution. It is with pleasure that I look forward to a debate on the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e234	The former leader of the Central Party is one of those who are in favour of the proposal, so I would, of course, like to start by saying that the Central Party fully supports this proposal, which we believe is very principled and very important. It is based on what previous speakers have stressed that we must respect the people's choices. It underlines the importance of Storting. It underlines, in particular, the difference between the elected body of the State and the government — the relationship between the state powers, as it was also stressed. I will not spend more time, but just stress that we are very concerned about this proposal, and it is an important proposal that has been put forward. It's supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e241	I would first like to say that I think the initiative taken to discuss these questions in this way in the Chamber now, before we go to a new big shot, is a proper and good initiative on the part of the presidency. Although I am new in Stortinget, I would like to say that I think we have too little attention on the treatment of the constitution proposals. I mean that. I therefore believe that what we have done in Stortinget as such and in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs in dealing with human rights issues is a proper way of dealing with it. There we have been presented with all the proposals that should be put forward, so that the next big deal can deal well with all the human rights issues related to the Constitution in a comprehensive package. I just wanted to say that, because I think we should pay a lot of attention to the Constitutional proposals. So to this proposal that the representative, Andersen, as a representative, but also as the prime minister, has come to the fore. I would like to say, on my basis, that I support that proposal. I support the argument put forward by the representative, Andersen, just now. I very much agree that it is important for the Storting itself to be careful that you hold very firmly to the fact that the Storting is the top elected body. It's often under pressure from many teams, and I think this is one of the markers that it's necessary to do for the Storting, because otherwise it might be the beginning of a development towards another balance between what Andersen called the relationship between the kingship and the power of the people. That's a perfectly correct consideration, which I think there's reason to underline and support. Then I would also say that there is an argument in addition that I at least did not hear that was presented, and that is a little bit in the extension of this, and that I think we should include in the reasoning. It's that no one has suggested – and good it is – that you can subtract from Stortinget after you've been selected. There are many parliaments in Europe that have the practice that you can actually end on your own initiative after you have been elected. That practice or opportunity we don't have, and it's very important that we don't have. This proposal is in exactly the same street, that you can't go over to anything else. It's very important to emphasize as an important principle. Because when you put yourself at your disposal and are elected – first by your parties, even if it is not a matter of the Constitution as such, but you are elected by your parties and then by the people – then you have a personal mandate. The mandate to be exercised in this Chamber during the period for which you are elected in the relationship for which this proposal is being dealt with, but also – and I add – that you cannot withdraw. That is why this is an important and good principle, which I personally support.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e254	I would first like to say that I am very happy to add up to this procedure, which was probably an idea that came to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. The fact that proposals are actually being promoted in a big deal means that there should also be a debate in the Biggest. I believe that this is in the very spirit of the Constitutional Amendment process, that it should also be a debate when we promote the proposal, and not only when it is debated and addressed to voting. We can probably develop this further as well. Perhaps you don't have to take all the debates together, maybe you can take the debate on the days when the proposals are being promoted in order to have them spread more widely. But it's a very good initiative from the presidency. So to the proposal that lies here. I think it is important that we hold back the status of this assembly in our democracy. I still think we're taking action in society that's undermining the populace. It's about how state councils answer in this room, that you don't answer what you're actually getting questions about. It's about how you think about having a majority government in relation to the influence of the Biggest. It's about pay. I think it's tragic when you hear state politicians who can't afford to be big-time representatives. It says something about the position in which we place the different elected authorities. I know what I mean about it! We also see that what is contained in this proposal is one of the things that are involved in undermining the Storting and the position of the Storing representatives. In fact, there should be a higher status associated with being elected to the public than being employed as political adviser to a minister, employed by a prime minister. As this has begun to creep in, I think this is a good tightening-up in our system, and that's part of giving status to being elected to the people -- a status I think it's important to fence around. If we undermine it, we undermine our own democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e261	No more have asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 1. Constitutional proposal 2: Protection of food resources
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e270	How do you turn this on?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e275	We have to get some light. The President may assist here. That's it! Then we get the protection of the food resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e278	Yes, it was an attempt to create some interest in this matter. I have been given the honour to present this draft constitution on behalf of the depositors Dagfinn Høybrätten, Erling Sande, Hallgeir H. Langeland and myself on the amendment of the Constitution § 110b on the protection of food resources. So the basic bill is about protecting one of the most important things we have: the earth that gives us food. The central party's basic idea is that we should take care of the earth so that future generations will take it in at least as good a condition as it was when we got it. Since 1992, the Constitution has had a provision on environmental protection that states that nature's resources should be disposed of in a long-term way that takes care of the values of those who come after us. It's both important and correct. We, who are behind this constitution proposal, believe that it is time that the food soil is also mentioned in the Constitution. The food soil should take care of the most important value we have, which is the basis for growing food to feed the population for many, many generations to come. The pressure on the food soil is great. We are becoming more and more people both in Norway and elsewhere in the world. People need a place to live. We need roads to transport both our sea and our goods on. We need construction to house jobs, and we need premises where we can buy and sell goods and services. Purchasing centres, road and rail construction, the need for land for housing and industrial buildings compete for the best and most central areas of the country. But these areas are usually central because they have also been historically central — at that time because it was the best place to grow food. That's why there's often a conflict with the central location of the affluent earth, that is, our food earth. Simple research shows that we need food to live. Sick about Norway is such a rich country that we could probably have bought most of what we need outside the country's borders, we have both a moral duty and a right to grow food for our own people. We're not going to buy the food from people who need it as much as we do. We live in a country with challenging conditions for the production of food. Geography, topography and climate are challenging. In Norway, we don't have much food soil. In fact, we're down to 1.67 covers full-grown land per capita. In comparison, the corresponding number is over 2 pst. on a global basis. In addition, there is only arable land of less than 3 pst. of our total land area. 38 pst. Of our land is forest, 44 pst. is forest and vast, and the entire 16 pst. is protected area. On a global scale, 10.7 pst. of the total area of full-grown land. We know that in large parts of the country there is a very short growing season. At the same time, we have population growth both in our own country and worldwide. And the world's total grain stocks will only last 68 days if a crisis strikes us. We've already seen what lack of grain to bread means to a people. Dry and fires in large cereal-exporting countries such as the United States and Russia led a few years ago to an increase in world market prices. This increase led to such high food prices that some importing countries had serious problems feeding their own populations. It's enough to remember that high grain prices were one of the reasons we got the Arab spring. Without food and drink, the hero is not good enough, so the same is true of a country's population. Lack of food leads to social and economic unrest. We have a moral responsibility to produce the food we can for our own people in a world where distribution is crooked, and there are still many who starve in their own country. Then we have to protect the food soil in particular. The value that the food soil represents is not something that we can build up today and bring up again in a few years. Soil conservation is a long-term value – a value we see under pressure is very many places in this country. Many strong interests struggle to use the same land, and so far, the food soil has most often lost the battle in competition with different development projects. The earth is cheap and finished. When the option is to build on mountains, the fight is usually lost. In the long term, it is simply not sustainable. Producing enough and safe food for one's own population is one of the most important and most fundamental tasks in any society. Governments have ambitions to increase food production as the population increases in Norway. We have a goal of increasing food production by 20 pst. The next 20 years. It's a demanding challenge. It requires increased knowledge of food production and that we take care of the food soil. At the same time, there is no doubt that we can and must do both. We can't afford to put short-term profit in the way of long-term and good management of vital resources. We can't accept that any of the best agricultural land will no longer be used to produce food. Both as national politicians and as representatives of our respective counties, these are the balances we must regularly take. Should we build residential areas centrally and close to the collective node, but on food soil? Do we have to take areas from the ground, build on mountains, or do we have to take food soil? Is shopping malls going to get established in nice cornfields? It's just a field. Are new roads and routes to be laid over food soils? I think it's possible to increase both transport, housing and food production without any thought to take the easiest way across the world. Soil protection is an important priority for the government. We've reduced the rate of degradation, so at least that's something. Figures from the State Agriculture Administration and the SSB show that since 2005 – when we came into government – we have almost halved the use of cultivated land for purposes other than food production. The most recent figures are from 2011, and they show that we are down to the lowest figure for the redistribution of food soil since the 1980s, despite a sharp increase in road and rail investment. But it's really just a skinny comfort. It just means that the rate of degradation doesn't go so fast. That doesn't mean that the food earth that's been gone since the 1980s has come back. I am pleased that the purpose of food soil is now within the target structure of the National Transport Plan. This also requires annual reporting on the consumption of cultivated land. I hope that soil protection will be further strengthened in the new national transport plan to be submitted shortly. It is important that routes for new road or rail projects, which will lead to the degradation of cultivated land, be taken out of the planning process as early as possible. This will save both food soil and planning time. The housing policy notification also provides better protection for the food soil. It provides guidelines for more efficient land use and minimisation of natural interference. We have a positive development with a greater degree of policy guidelines for governance on soil protection considerations. But we're far from the goal. The food resources are one of the most valuable things we have. It's about what we're all actually living with, the food we're going to eat. For our sakes and those who come after us, I am today proud to receive the honor of proposing to give the food soil special protection in the Constitution. The center party is based on the farmer's administrator's idea: to deliver the farm to the next genus in better condition than when he took it over. We want to pass the earth on to our descendants in at least as good a condition as it was when we sailed over it. But then we have to have some soil to pass on, and then it's the food soil that's the most important. It's time we gave it a special constitutional protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e318	In an increasingly evolving society, administrative responsibility becomes an increasingly important pillar. Managing responsibility is about securing future generations the opportunities and rights that we now have. It's about the environment and the climate. It's about value creation. It's about food security. The custodian's responsibility is that we should be able to see our next generation in our eyes and say, "I did everything in my power to make you grow up in a world and a society that is at least as good as what I grew up in." Then we need to take care of our land and manage the food resources for future generations. We need to take care of the most important prerequisite that we and the next generation should have food on the table – the food soil. It's not all the values that can be praised, although some later to think that most things can be arranged with money. Oscar Wilde has among others. a. expressed as: now people know the price of everything, but not what is worth. Unfortunately, it's the most valuable earth being built down first – the earth we might appreciate, but not determine the value of. Despite clear objectives and reinforced measures to slow down development, the country’s best food soil continues to decline at an excessive pace. Over the last 50 years, over 1 million deer have been disposed of in Norway. Every year in the last 20 years, an average of 16 000 food soil targets have been built up annually. This corresponds to approx. 2 500 football courses. Our agricultural area is still going down and is now less than 10 million deches. Only 3 pst. of Norway’s total area is cultivated land, which is significantly lower than in most countries it is natural to compare with. On a global scale, 10.7 pst. of the land area of the full-grown land. In 2008, the number of fully-cultivated land per capita in Norway was 1.79. Worldwide, the corresponding figure was 2.1, according to the World Bank. In 2012, Norway is down to 1.63 jobs in full-grown land per capita. The population development projections of the SSB show, if a mean population growth is taken into account, that Norway will pass 6 million inhabitants within 25 years. If today's disposal frequency is persistent, by 2030 we will have a food soil ratio of 1.35 decare cultivated land per capita. At the same time, the production capacity of the food soil is constantly reduced due to the lack of trenching, liming and maintenance. In addition, the use of tractors and other heavy goods vehicles leads to increased soil packaging. This means that production will actually go down, even though today we should have introduced absolute protection for all cultivated land. So we know that we have a policy in this house: that we're going to increase food production by 20 pst. The next 20 years. With gloomy prospects, soil protection enshrined in the Constitution is all the more important. Soil protection is necessary, inter alia: because our descendants are going to have the opportunity to produce their own food on their own land. Soil protection is necessary because climate change can change the conditions for food production across the globe. Soil protection is crucial when economic growth in rich countries increases the demand for food. And soil protection is important when we see that the increased interest in renewable energy generates increased demand for production areas. Managing responsibility is, and should still be, a pillar of the Norwegian society to be in the driver’s seat and play on the layers of population growth, climate, environment and land pressure. Let's not view trustworthiness as an obstacle, but as a force. Managing responsibility should ensure that we take care of the next generation and generations after that, and soil protection is at the heart of managing responsibility. For nothing is more important than securing the top chamber for the next generation and the generations after that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e347	Anne Tingelstad Wøien and Line Henriette Hemdal have well illustrated what this is all about through clear facts, that it's actually going a little wrong. Then we have to take a few steps, and the grip that SV wants to join in is to give the food soil a stronger protection than it has today. Just to illustrate how difficult this is: We have a crazy bonanza in the North Jären in the oil and gas industries. There's an enormous pressure on everything possible. There are no workers, there are car queues that are unlikely to be long, and there is a pressure on the food soil to build up more dwellings. The last time in Stavanger Aftenblad today is an example from Time Municipality, where the County has previously refused to place a residential area on a garden. The county has gone against, but then start the county selection, which is led by the Right, rematch. Now the garden is in danger of going to dwellings. The food we have on the North Jär, is one of the best things we have, and then you can't plan locally to build places other than where there is gardening. Another example is that the large majority in Stortinget agrees – SV was against, but now it is confirmed – E39, Rogfast. There's also half of the gardening because of the road system that a broad plural will have in the Randaberg area. There SV as the only party locally wants to prioritize double tracks to Egersund. Then one would have access to homes in Jette Christensen's hometown, for there are many mountains and quagmires on which we can build. With a fast and efficient double track, you can commute to the Forus workplaces. However, the local priority of a train is not high enough, although one knows that it takes much less space than the quadruple motorway. There are some dilemmas that those who are co-sponsors of this proposal have to think about, but not least the whole of the Storting, clumsy about one saying something, but then something else happens. One also has a possibility that is also not prioritised on the North Jären either: we have an Eelgårdbahn that is laid down, where it is entirely possible to build more dwellings. Instead, a priority is to build a road to Kristiansand. Here, more people have to go on their own – and there is something of the purpose of this proposal – that we should give our food soil a better protection, because we need to have more food production in Norway. There are a few things about – because we have the growth we have, we need more food. If we build our own agricultural land for the benefit of motorways and the like, that means we need to have higher imports of food. There is no SV policy. We want short-term food production in Norway, not least in the area I live in – Northern Ireland.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e360	No more have asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 2. Constitutional proposal 3: More transparency on Norwegian participation in the war abroad
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e369	Once there was great openness about Norwegian participation. It was in that war that turned out to be a "fake," that is, a blunder: the war against Iraq, where George Bush was going to destroy weapons of mass destruction, which were not there, it turned out afterwards. Then the government wanted Bondevik II and Per-Christian Foss to be with George Bush at that war, but then something happened. There was an open debate about this – it was open that there was going to be war, but what would Norway do? Then it happened that the Norwegian people took part in the debate because it was openness. It meant that there were 110 000 who demonstrated in the streets of Norway that we should not be in the war that George Bush wanted. That led Jan Petersen to say to George Bush: I can't be with you anyway. It was something of the worst he could say, but he had to do it because of an open debate outside among the Norwegian people. Then history goes on that SV and the other parties wouldn't be there when there was a new plural in 2005. It led – as a lie – to Jens Stoltenberg never getting to George Bush because of his policy against Iraq. It was probably a pity for him, but it was because we had an open debate about Norwegian participation in the war. The same did not happen when it came to the Libyan war, or to go back even further, Kosovo. In 1998 – for this I was in – it was supposed to be a meeting of the extended Foreign Affairs Committee on Thursday. The SV Group was to deal with this matter the day before – without case paper, only with notice that this matter will be discussed in the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee tomorrow. It meant that we had the knife on our throat, considering what we were going to do, no particular good knowledge of what was going on, but so, Norway was going to be there – no open debate outside. This was in the autumn of 1998. There was a debate afterwards – among others. in my own party – which was very demanding, but which was still good at the end, because then there was a demand for a UN mandate for what one should do in the future. But the point is, had there been a debate in Stortinget and out among the Norwegian people, the situation could have been different from that war. So one might ask, what was the result in the Balkans of Norway being there? After all, the problems are still not solved. The same could be said for Libya, where the government went in to join a force that would not crush Gaddafi, but that would prevent people from being killed. That was the intention, but it turned out that there was something else you were looking for – one was simply looking for a change of regime. It happened without a democratic debate, too. So the result was that Gaddafi was overthrown, and one now has an area where there's a lot of uncertainty about what's going on, where we have a lot of rebels who have pieces of guns. One had the situation in Algeria with Statoil, where five people were killed because of, among other things, instability in the region, and one now has Mali as a possible area for rebellion, because one has destabilised this area itself. I think the experiences of the two examples show that if we're going to get a real knowledge-based debate, he has to go up in Stortinget, so that the Norwegian people can also participate. We can say the same when it comes to the Afghanistan problem. Now we've been there for 12 years, and the result isn't all the world – on the contrary, maybe. So we've been in that war without having a debate in advance. One might say that it didn't have the Soviet Union either when they went into 1979 and were there for ten years, just like the Westerners have done: they put in a person they wanted to rule the country, and then they tried to kill all the resistance. It didn't work for them. In fact, I believe this led to the Soviet Union going into a resolution – because of that participation in the Afghanistan war. But NATO countries, the United States, didn't learn anything from it. Despite the fact that they were the ones who trained bin Laden to take the Russians in their time, one of them was supposed to do the exact same thing they were bombing on, considering Afghanistan. We had started having open debates on this in Stortinget. Then I think we would have been a little bit more careful to participate on the basis of what the United States thinks is a good solution. Kill and destroy has not worked in Afghanistan. It turns out it's wrong. You must do things in a different way if you want to make a transition to a peaceful government. That is why it is important that we in Norway have an open debate on this. Then I have to say something if there are other countries that have examples that this can work. The Danish now have the constitution that there should be debate in the Folketing before one goes to war – it says so. So there's nothing else from SV that suggests this, wants us in Norway: the same thing that Danes have – an open debate about whether we're going to be part of wars. So, the principle that we have today about secrecy is not tricked when it comes to war. We don't want that. We will then, if we do not do as SV would like, have a lack of democracy and a lack of democratic debate. We are also at risk of debates in closed rooms, where there is no adequate knowledge of what to do – when you do not dare to debate it openly, there may be limitations in the knowledge that you have from the government. I just think I'll finish by saying that I hope that SV gets a pass on for this. And I would also like to say to the presidency that it is very good that they are trying something new to have a debate, not least about the Constitution. It is a little in line with the SV's proposal as one of the Constitutional proposals, that you should be able to submit proposals later, just so that constitutional proposals will be part of the debate on the elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e392	The President thanked the rose, but at the same time the President would draw attention to the fact that the word ‘bløff’, which the representative of Langeland used at the beginning of his speech, is an unparliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e395	After listening to the presentation by the representative of Langeland, it is said that the government of Bondevik was the government that made a decision on Iraq, with which the representative of Langeland was, and as I understand it, is still satisfied. That is, you came up with a result after a basic law for exposure as it is now. Since Langeland moved on to other conflicts, it is also possible to bring in the experience of the Balkans, where it was illustrated what can be done by suffering at the too high intervention threshold. So it was that the international community did not intervene, thereby indirectly contributing to a massacre in Srebrenica, which led to a Muslim minority being systematically exposed to genocide. It's one of the darkest chapters, and it's another example of what happens when the intervention threshold is set too high for the international community. However, it is now the case that the decisions with which the representative Langeland is satisfied or not satisfied are not affected by the draft constitution proposed by SV. In fact, the proposal gives the impression that today’s intervention threshold for military exposures abroad is changing – but in reality it is a procedural issue that SV will have differently. So SV draws power-distribution issues between collapse and government, and then in relation to the Constitution § 25. The Constitution § 25 is one of those who have undergone any changes, but not so much in substance, since 1814. At the time, Section 25 of the Basic Law was intended as a protection against the country's defence forces, the so-called country protection, being moved abroad by a personal kingship which could actually be suspected of having side motives other than to defend Norwegian interests. The doctrine of power distribution, by having state powers independent of each other, has changed significantly. Of course, the courts can still be said to be independent, but it is not the government's position on the Storting. So, with the introduction of parliamentaryism, we have the government that the Storting accepts at all times. This also leads to the development of a division of labour between collapse and government, which means that the Storting gives laws and that they control the government's dispositions. So the Constitutional Amendment proposed by SV will add decisions to the Stortinget. You might ask: What body should the government be responsible for? Because then it is the Storting itself that has involved themselves in the first row. In the proposal, they have also shown that in other countries national Parliaments are required to take part in these cases, but so there are emergency provisions. In this way, it can be pointed out that where the national Parliament has to issue mandates which are subject to operating restrictions in both time and space, it is also a way of opening up to the enemy what powers are given and imposing operational restrictions on itself that can actually increase the risk to those in the field. To this end, public discussion: the current constitutional provision has not prevented a broad public debate on Norwegian foreign involvement, and decisions on international involvement are not taken in any political vacuum. I think it would be a great harm to the role-sharing, which I had in mind, between the role of the Biggest as controlling and advocating authority and the government as the executive, if the proposal were accepted. I am also surprised that the proposers want public meetings in the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. It is precisely a place where you can exchange confidential information that the Storting must know as a background, without compromising the responsibility of the government for making arrangements that the Storting will later check.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e414	It was actually the history description of the representative, Langeland, that made me have to take the floor. It probably describes the most SV in government, that you are most satisfied with the time you got to protest in the lawn and had no influence on the government. But it was actually such that there was great resistance in the government of Bondevik II against going in – the resistance lay with the two smallest parties, and the two smallest parties got through. I agree with the representative of Langeland that there should be as large a public debate as you can have, but that these are very special situations. I think it is good that we have debates in Stortinget on this, debates that might perhaps lead to public information, which may almost be part of the so-called documentary productions of the NRK, which have not brought with them the principle that is in the Norwegian Constitution. So if it can contribute to public information, I'm positive to it. So a comment on the proposal. We're moving into another time. All the great wars that our continent has seen in the last thousand years have always been different from what you thought. There have always been other weapons that have become dominant than the political leaders have thought would be prevailing when they entered a war. We saw it during World War I, we saw it during World War II, and now we suddenly see a threat picture that is completely different. We now see that terror is the weapon to be used on European soil, and we see that civil wars are followed by genocide. I think everyone in this room is disappointed that we can't do anything in Syria, that we can just sit and watch from the outside that people are being killed, and that childhood is being destroyed. Then we also have to look at how we deal with these questions. That is why I am very open to take the discussion that SV adds, but that also means that we take such decisions on a different basis than we have done before. In the past, there has been a military threat, that someone should stand at the Norwegian border, and that a government should quickly take a decision, while now it is about international cooperation to combat genocide, assault and other atrocities that we have an international responsibility to help stop. That means that Norwegian participation in the war is going to be completely different in the future than before. It may require other debates on our participation. This may not only be about the Constitution; it is also about the government's attitude on how such debates are to be conducted, and about the openness of the government on the basis of which you go in and do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e423	Several have not asked for the floor for Constitutional Amendment No. 3rd@item: inlistbox Draft Constitutional Law 4: Introduction of 16-year voting rights
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e432	This is one of the constitution proposals I personally have the greatest commitment to, because I think it is one of the important challenges we face. There we have a very long line of reasoning behind us. I'll start first with history. I think the Left has been in the front when it comes to all the voting extensions that have been taken up in this room since the morning, and we're also going to be in the future. What major challenges do we now face? I will start with a major demographic challenge for Norwegian democracy, namely that we have an increasingly older population. We're getting a big shift across the whole continent of Europe, where there are more and more older people. I think it's a challenge for democracy when we get a shift between age groups that way, and we see that for different age groups in different parts of the continent it becomes a great demographic imbalance. That's why I think it's important to see that as a whole we have a group behind us that reflects the society we're going to make decisions for. My whole political commitment began with the fact that as a 13-year-old, it was incredibly unfair that children and young people were not heard much more in democracy. The whole drive for me to join a political party was just to say that children and young people were not heard, not taken seriously – everything from experiences around me in child protection cases, where the opinions of young people were not given weight, to the general attitude there, for example. The long-term challenges we face, such as the environment and climate, were not taken seriously, because – from the perspective of a 13-year-old – it was the old people who decided. That is why this proposal is also about a little of the reason why I am at all engaged in politics. With regard to extending the voting rights, the liberal parties across Europe have always been at the forefront, and now the liberal parties across Europe are also at the forefront of enlargement to 16-year voting rights. We have won in part of the Länder of Germany and Switzerland, and in the election campaign in the United Kingdom, this was also a major issue. There have always been the liberal parties that have stood in front here. So to a small picture of the evolution of youth today. I tested out these numbers the last time we discussed this, and I'm dealing with a couple of years old numbers, but I think it describes the evolution among young people pretty well. I'm from Namdal, North Trøndelag. Not so many decades ago, there was one high school in Namdal. In high school, there was one coal with 20 students who took artium. That means that Namdal had about 60 students who at any time went on what we call high school today. I called the principal there a while ago and asked how many students are going to high school in Namdal today. The answer was 1,075. Where a few decades ago, 60 students who got so-called artium went there today, 1,075 students. This means that the level of education among young people today is dramatic — really dramatic — more right than it was just a few decades ago. One of the images that irritated me the most as a youth politician was the image of the 68s as the big, engaged youth cult. It's just nonsense. The 68s belong to a tiny elite who went to university when almost no one went to university. It was just a tiny little elite that was politically active by the 68-generation. The generation of young people that is really politically active is the generation of young people we now have. Never have we had youth that we could be more proud of, never have we had youth that takes more education, never have we had youth that has been more socially engaged than today, never have we had youth that have cared more about the future than today, never has this city in the thousands of years it has worked as a city, had youth that has been less criminal, took more education, used less drugs and cared more about contemporary life than today. The youth class we now have really deserves us to expand our voting rights. The NOVA report, which came in 2002, shows that there is a growing political commitment among young people. Of all the political decisions taken in this Chamber and around the local government, there is no one like this that concerns as much as just young people. When the swimming pools and leisure clubs are closed, when the bicycle routes are not working, or when all the Community solutions we have are not working, it is mainly young people who are going through it. It is primarily the people who notice it in their everyday lives. When we see young people who want to get involved in their own municipalities, they're not allowed to get involved until they move, because today, most people move during the year they're 18 years old. Thus, no one has the opportunity to participate in small communities, in local governments, because they have moved from their youth days when they have the opportunity to participate actively. When women’s voting rights have been fought, one of the slogans has been ‘no taxation without representation’. I think that's a good slogan. Many young people today also feel that they have a duty to pay taxes, but they do not have the opportunity to participate in deciding what to spend this money on. Today, young people are faced with a number of major choices that have a major impact on their future. Today, young people have to make choices earlier as to which direction they will go to school, what choices they will make for the future, and the choices they will have to make in the past and in the past. So you can pay taxes, you can sit in public councils and selections. The government can appoint someone to sit and create a NOW on different important political issues, but one does not have the right to vote against the government that is available. You can be put in prison, but you don't have the opportunity to influence the laws you're being jailed for. It's actually that there are inequalities between the ages of authority and other concepts. It's actually like you can sit in this hall and decide who's going to be allowed to buy booze, but you're not allowed to go around the corner one quarter, swing in and do the same sail. So there's still things that aren't consistent in the different laws we have, but I think most of it speaks for that 16-year-olds should have the opportunity to influence. Now we've had a trial project with voting rights in a number of municipalities, which has been incredibly positive, and which shows that this group votes more than what the first-time voters in general do. Article 12 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child states that children and young people not only have the right to express their views but also points out that opinions should be heard and added value. The major demographic changes we have in Europe mean that we should now extend our voting rights downwards. If we don't know that from a 10- to 15-year perspective, for example, the number of eighty-year-olds increased by 172 pst. in 10 years. The proportion over 70 years will increase dramatically, while the proportion between 15 and 25 years will decrease by about 25 pst. That is why it is also an important democratic step that we now have these enlargements made. Then someone probably finds a 16-year-old who doesn't want to vote. Yes, we extended to female voting rights, and you also found some women then who thought that women should not have voting rights. I doubt that is a valid argument today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e455	First, I would like to thank the representative Trine Skei Grande for a good contribution and for her commitment to this matter over many years – it has been very important. I'm very much in agreement with Trine Skei Grande in this matter. I also want to open up democracy. As she was at the end of her speech, we celebrate this year that it is 100 years since the women were given the right to vote. I like to celebrate that we're opening up democracy – that's what we all do. Now, when we look back at the debates we had in this room about women's voting rights or not, I think there are a lot of people who feel that those debates are not representative of how we talk today. I believe that one in 100 years or maybe two years – all because we adopt this – will feel the same about the debates we have on voting rights here today. I don't mean to open up to give young people the right to vote because it's a different anniversary. I mean it because it's right. There are some extremely heavy choices on this age group. The criminal low age is 15 years old. The right to choose education, that is, what your whole life will look like in the future, is when you're 15 years old. The right to choose a political or religious stand is given when you are 15. You have the right to choose abortion when you're 16. These are much harder choices and more difficult things to decide than to choose which one to want to represent, even though it is a little heavy for some politicians to swallow that very thing. There have been three specific counter-arguments. The sample size has not been as high in the test groups as one might have hoped, but the sample size has been higher than the sample size of the first-time selector. It is always the responsibility of politicians to make politics interesting for the voters. It's always our job to create policies that apply to all citizens, and make them see that there's their voice as counting. When the electoral process is low, it is the policy and the politicians' problems, not the electoral groups. I want to raise that counter-argument that I think it's the very least hold. It's that 16-year-olds aren't mature enough. Being politically awake or conscious is not biological, and there is nothing we can set the clock after. It's not like you're waking up on your 18th birthday with a newfound, burning political and ideological lifelong commitment. I know many 30, 40, 50 and 60-year-olds who are very good examples of that, but I still want them to retain their voting rights. What I also think should apply to seniles and dentures – they should still be part of democracy. Moving authority forward as a biological matter is frightening like the debates that Stortinget had before the ladies got their vote. At that time it was both ungodly and unnatural that women should be allowed to vote, and the women’s abilities were not good enough for them to vote. One of the worst arguments in the past was that «Fruent Timmer has not yet claimed to participate in the state board of directors». So the ladies had not asked. It is tempting to ask who they should have asked, but I will leave that. In addition, not many 16-year-olds are fighting for voting rights in the same way – as Trine Skei Grande was in it – that there were also some women who did not want to vote. Those who are concerned about politics are because politics concerns themselves or because they think that their perception concerns others. Our job is to make the policy up to date for everyone. It's not so strange that the lawn outside is not full of 16-year-olds who want to vote, because we're notifying them that their vote is not important. We inform them that their policy areas are not important. When we talk about them, we talk about how small they are to vote. Step Skei Grande was in on the commitment of this young generation. Yes, I agree that there has been a huge dispute between Norwegian youth, but I think that extending the voting rights of 16-year-olds also means getting us to another group: we get with those who don't love going to the student board meeting, and those who don't use Saturday evenings in raggsocks in a gym to discuss political issues. I also want to vote right to the others – in addition to those who belong today – and I think that extending the voting rights to 16-year-olds is high time and is important for our whole democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e470	Trine Skei Grande and Jette F. Christensen have argued in a good way that we should reduce the voting age to 16 years, as SV has demanded for a long time. I would like to reflect a little over three problem settings to link up with the counter-arguments that both Trine Skei Grande and Jette F. Christensen were in. Missing maturing is one of the arguments. Election surveys in Germany showed that young people are more idealistically oriented. They don't vote that much on real policy, they vote on the idea, it turns out in a German study. Then you can ask if it's immature. On the contrary, it shows just maturity when one can be consistent and reflected on important ideological and less real policy areas. So you might also ask yourself, what if the 16-year-old is immature, but the senile isn't? I want to say that then we have a real problem too, because we let them vote, so we have to keep young people away from the polls. Maturity is very difficult to measure, so what is the expression of maturity. Some might call me, who is 57 years old, immature, at least in heated debates. This is because there's kind of a biological limit attached to this, I think you need to look a long time to figure it out. Because that means, in principle, that many adults and older people are also immature, based on their behavior. It must be – based on this – a moving transition from the time you are mature to the time you are not mature. Probably a not mature from the birth of, but at least it's not that one can say: Yes, now is the date here, now I'm mature! As also Christensen was about, you can go to prison, you can have sexual intercourse and have to take the consequences of it, and you're religiously mature when you're 15, so there's a problem for those who are going to argue against this. When it comes to selection, that it's lower, it's only partially correct, because in fact, the group between 16 and 18 was more active than those over 18. Even if the percentage, 57.3 pst., is lower than the turnout otherwise, it means that such a large percentage joins participating democracy and is involved in developing Norwegian democracy. We must strive for that. It is, as many people have been in, not more than 100 years ago – and then we talk about authority age – that the ladies became wise. So before that they were, the men said, unable to vote and participate in democracy. It's only 100 years ago. Now, 100 years later, we should move on and develop the problem against this. When one looks at it historically, the age of valbarity in 1898 was 30 years and the age of authority was 21 years. In 1969 the electoral age was 20 years before the election day and the authority age were the same. So it's gone the right way, but now we have to take a step further. The Austrian electoral reform is an example of how it is possible to distinguish between the age limits of voting rights and eligibility. In Austria, they have introduced a 16-year-old age limit in national elections, but 16-year-olds and 17-year-olds are not eligible. The limit to be chosen is 18. So this is completely possible to carry out, it's just up to the political will, as it's so popular to say. I hope that the new enlargement, when it comes to treatment, has the courage that one has had before in Norwegian policy, simply to develop democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e485	No more have asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 4. Constitutional proposal 8: State-Church Relationship
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e495	Many good decisions have been taken in the Grand Duchy with regard to the Constitution and the State-Church relationship in recent periods, and what is in the Left's proposal here is to take the final step out and make the final distinction between the State and the Church in the Constitution. This applies to § 4 and § 16, where we want changes. This is part of a historical development in church-state relations, and the Left has long thought that these ties should be cut completely. The reason why we want to do that is because for us, it's important that a state is non-confessional. For me, it has nothing to do with the existence of different religions in society. About 100 pst. of the Norwegian people had gone to church every Sunday, yet I had meant this in principle. For me, it's about the state not to govern religious societies, that religious communities should be seaworthy, and that they should have their own opinions both in the field of learning and in the field of appointment. I think it's important to have a broad people's church that has broad popular appeals, but it's done by building a free church, which dares to have free opinions. I wish that religious communities had participated much more in the open public debate than they dare to do today. I believe that one of the reasons we don't see religious communities actively participating is that today we have a church governed by the Norwegian Constitution. I also think it is important – that is why we want to keep it in the Constitution – that all religious and life-view societies should be supported in the same way. The reason why we want to keep that sentence in Section 16 is that it is important for us that religious communities should have rediscovery of financial instruments. Rause funding schemes allow you to link funding with participation. That means membership actually matters. It will prevent you from building up the broad church, and it will prevent extreme opinions from gaining more power than they should have, because it is membership that gives power to a religious community. Therefore, it is also important to have financial instruments that do not provide large gifts or money from abroad that support Norwegian religious communities, but that Norwegian religious communities have voiced good support through participation by Norwegian citizens. I think that's what will ensure the broad people's church that we want, and also that the other religious communities focus on broad popular participation and not on building up these attitudes. So it's then to cancel Section 4 and cut the intermediates of Section 16, which is our proposal, because then we get a basic clean-up and a basic liberal way of formulating a constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e506	Others have not asked for the word for Constitutional Amendment 8. Constitutional proposal 10: Establishment of a Republic as a Governing Board in Norway
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e515	SV has drawn up this proposal repeatedly, and we have been criticized because we have not done it well enough – it has not been well enough designed. So this time we wanted to figure out how to get this transition. The strange thing is that a large number of people who have criticized SV for missing this item are likely to disagree with it. At least at this point in time, according to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, it seems that one does not want to be awarded. It's a strange procedure from the plural. So one critics that a person doesn't know how to do it, and when we try to find out how to do it, we don't get to do it – the majority won't be able to do it. That's weird. Then SV is pleased that some younger workers' party representatives are also involved in the proposal, because in reality it has been by voting that very many from the Labour Party have supported SV's proposal for the introduction of the Republic. Many others also know, in the second party, are basically quite a few of them in this, but they don't dare to vote for some reason – also for populist reasons, because one sees that Harald and the royal house are very popular, and then one can't be principled, except in the back room. If there had been another king, who made a lot -- I'm not allowed to say that, so I have to find another word -- trouble in society and got a lot of criticism from people, many in this room would certainly have been with SV and a part of the Labour Party on being principleal. Now you don't dare, because Harald is entirely king! I agree – Harald, Sonja and the Royal House do an excellent job, but that's not what this is all about. It's about the principle of Haakon being born to be king. He could not walk on the carpenter's line at the secondary school – he had to be king. It was definitely when he was born. So that system wants a wide multiple here, with Lundteigen in the head, to go on. In spite of the fact that the Crown Prince put down the milk quota, the Center Party will support this royal house with bream and bream. These are strange things, but there might be something archaic about the Center Party and Lundtägen, because one doesn't go to work in principle here, set up against that one thinking that being born into a position, that's good. That's how it was in the nobility period, and one will have it now. I expect Lundtigen to answer for this himself, but since he sat here, it was tempting to take up this milk quota debate, which was a debate when the Crown Prince did this. According to the Constitution, which when a plurality in Parliament seems right, the king stands above Parliament, in principle. The principle is that the king, whom we look up to here, sit and have power over us. It's through inherited rights. It's an anachronism in our democratic society. Norway's form of rule is so-called hereditary monarchy. This means that the formal head of state is a person who has inherited this position. It's not given by people most through choices. It's a cross-section of mind according to the SV and the proposal providers' point of view. A transition to the Republic will be the natural end point of the democratisation process that has taken place since 1814, leading to women’s voting rights in 1913, a hundred years ago. Republic is the most common form of government in the entire world. The SV and the co-sponsors also want such an arrangement in Norway, where the Norwegian people vote in favour of their president. So you could say, what kind of president should you have? There's something we want to figure out. One may have a Finnish model, one may have an Icelandic model, one may have a Russian model, one may have an American model, but I think from the proposers' side we see more of an Icelandic-Finnish model, not a model à la Russia and the United States, where the president has a huge influence. We imagine a president who somehow replaces many of the actions that the king is doing today, but assumes that it is the power of the people. I think there were 17 votes to this proposal when there was a vote over this period. I hope it increases in the next period. Unfortunately, I don't think SV gets multiples for this in the next period either, but we don't intend to give. We think it is regrettable that so many politicians in Norway and so many parties are unprincipled in this matter and want to have inheritance as the starting point for a democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e532	I am pleased that the representative of Langeland is pleased that there are several representatives from the Labour Party who are involved in this proposal. That's because it's a good suggestion. I do not say that the previous proposals have not been good, but one might have been a little more focused on the fact that the proposals did not get that many votes. This time the visions have been different. We have received on the table a proposal that has been worked through and thoroughly, which I have chosen to support. I have done that because I think Norwegian democracy should be continuous. The way we control Norway must reflect our ideals, and our ideals are democracy, equal opportunities and representation. That a calm family is head of state, none of these values reflect. I don't want that much, I want to figure out how we can make Norway more democratic. That someone doesn't want to figure out what kind of republic that fit Norway is weird. It's often said that being Republicans in Norway is radical. I mean that being a member of a family through a succession is going to be head of state in Norway is an extremely radical position. So radical is not me. I want a democracy that's going on. This is not a distrust of the royal family we have, I think they're doing an absolutely glittering job. But I wonder a little bit about the way our opponents argue. They say that no, it is not certain that this is the most democratic, it is not sure that this is the most correct, but it is going so well! That argument would not have been sustainable in any other political discussion, nor is it further in principle. If we now get this statement and the result is then, we get a pretty nice extra bonus, because in addition to Norway becoming a real democratic country by removing the legacy monarchy, it also involves giving a gift to the royal family, that they will have voting rights. It's a very gift that I want to give them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e545	The next speaker is Per Olaf Lundtigen. The President will simply ask for a fundamental debate on this issue and perhaps not go into detail on milk quotas!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e550	I'm going to comply with that request! The reason why I take the floor is that the representative Langeland gave the impression that the king in our constitution and in our practice is above Parliament. The representative of Langeland has been a Member of Parliament for many years, and I do not think he has much experience of it being comprehensive. Furthermore, it was used to argue that the kingdom is an inheritance and a tradition of nobility. I guess nobility is just history. As far as I know, Section 108 of our good constitution states: ‘No counties, Baronians, Stamhuise and Fidei commissions, may be established for posterity’, cf. Law of 23 June 1888 No. 3rd@item: inlistbox I believe the movement of which I am a representative was instrumental in ensuring that the representative of Langeland's wish that the nobility would not have significant influence was implemented. That being said, the core of the question here is the relationship between grandeur and kingdom. The King and the Queen have broad popular uprising as a consequence of having the full and full respect for what is the task of the Greatness and the dignity of the Greatness, namely that the king and the kingdom must at all times follow the decisions and understanding of the Greatness. It was also referred to the Crown Prince, and I can take that: The Crown Prince is the manager of at least one of the king's royal courts, and it is then important that the future king manages the royal court in such a way that he stands in a worthy tradition there. What we see in other countries is that similar rulers manage their earthly goods in a way that is in line with the Storting's attitude and attitude, and there are various ways to drive their feathers. It's not much of a principle maybe, President, but it's important that the king also has that responsibility. Similarly, since the representative of Langeland brings it up, I will also mention this chair of the Crown Princess and Surrogati. There is a law in Norway that says that surrogati is not legal, and then in my opinion it is not appropriate to travel to India to take care of those who do something that is not legal in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e575	The reason why I asked for the floor was the contribution from the representative Langeland, who claimed that the King of Norway is above all. It can't be undisputed. In fact, when we got our own constitution in 1814, we went over to a constitutional monarchy – that is, it's the law that also governs what the King can do. Not as before, that the King could decide what would be the law. If there are grounds for the proposal to repeal the monarchy, the proposal has been submitted on a failed basis. Furthermore, it is demonstrated that the representative of Langeland presents the draft constitution he proposes, namely that the Stortinget – by a majority of two thirds – can change the framework conditions for the kingdom or end the period of kingship. Of course, it can't be the other way around. It is important to bear in mind the understanding of the roles of state powers, namely that the Storting has the opportunity to amend the Constitution in those areas that also regulate the role of the other constituted state powers. But it is important to bear in mind that the most important understanding that Langeland's contributions contradict is the very principle of popular sovereignty, because the people in elections – election – are above us all. It's above us, it's above the King and it's above the Supreme Court. They are the ones who are all over the world, and that is why the proposal is probably based on some failing basis, without making me believe that the representative of Langeland will reject his proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e582	No more has asked for the floor for Constitutional Amendment No. 10th@item: inlistbox We shall now proceed to draft Constitutional Law No. 12th@item: inlistbox Draft Constitutional Law 12: Management of spiritual goods [[Information Service Fund]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e593	According to the sources, the owner Nicolai Wergeland must have written in his memoirs that the representative Teis Lundegaard – during the negotiations at Eidsvoll in 1814 – said the most terrible things about the spirituality. What was the meaning of Teis Lundegaard from Lister County? At least we know that he made a proposal there, among other things. has: ‘The benefied Goods, which is a Life from the Old Catholic Hierarchy, which and is to be regarded as a present time and circumstance, is wholly unnecessary and inappropriate interest.’ Maybe Teis Lundegaard was into something, but I won't go that far today. It is Gerd Janne Kristoffersen, Steinar Gullvåg and the undersigned who have promoted this draft constitution. The proposal is to amend the Basic Law § 106, which deals with the «Geistlichkeit den Gesundhets bedenegeten Gods», i.e. the foundation of the Information Society. But first of all, to clarify: the proposal is not promoted because we want the Information Society's fund to live. No, this proposal is about ending what I do not hesitate to call the last rest of the housekeeper's life, the Santa Claus Institute. That people shouldn't be able to own the land on which their house stands should belong to a lost time. Therefore, the Stoltenberg government started a profitable post-government job in 2005, in order to clean up the land consolidation system, with a view to allowing landowners to buy their property. Former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget should be commended for the great effort he made for this. Laws and regulations were changed, and many landowners looked forward to the future. Very many land anchors attach land due to the ownership of the Information Society's fund. Some of us were so persuasive that we thought they would be of the basic owners who were easy to deal with in this matter. But no – the Information Society's fund was not to be rich. In 2007, the government adopted an instruction on the redemption and regulation of the fastening charge in fast conditions in state-run or state-run establishments, including the Information Society’s fund. The case was brought before the courts – first the tribunal and then the Supreme Court. The majority in the Supreme Court considered that the instructions were contrary to the Basic Law § 106 – i.e. the provisions on the Information Society Fund. This is the background to today's draft constitution. The decision of the Supreme Court was a hard blow to many landowners. It was a great disappointment that the Information Society's fund, with its connection to the Church, was not willing – in a social way – to have the Santa Claus Institute wound up in residential areas for ordinary people. Norway is – I am aware – the only country in our part of the world that allows the system of Santa Claus today, and the strange thing is that it may seem to be the Information Society's fund that is the worst of the landowners to run lawsuits for the redemption of residential property against parties. I have over the years met so many desperate Santas, who have shown me letters they have received from the Information Society's fund's lawyers – by the best and most certainly expensive in the country. The usual man and woman have nothing to do with. We can't have it like that! The fund of the information society must be the only establishment in the country which does not need to comply with decisions taken by the general government. It can sometimes look as if they live their own lives and can hold on just as they want – and it truly makes them too. We can't have it that way. When the Supreme Court believes that the Information Society's fund can hold on as they do, under the protection of the Constitution, there is only one way out again, and that is to change the Constitution. That is why this draft constitution has been promoted. Paragraph 106 of the Basic Law states that the purchase sums and income from funds and properties owned by the Information Society's fund may be used only «for the Best of the Spirituality and the Promotion of Information». We have no intention of changing this. Due to the restriction of the use of the Fund’s resources, it can hardly be considered as an integral part of the State Treasury. The Fund is properly governed by the State's overall management and governance, and the Information Service's fund is managed by the Information Service's Fund Management Board, which is currently administered by the Ministry of Renewal, Administrative and Church Affairs. In practice, the management of the Fund by the country has also been subject to strong constraints. The limitation in the use of the fund's resources laid down in the Basic Law, § 106, has been interpreted in such a way that it also ties in with the management of the fund's assets and properties. In our view, this is not clearly enshrined in the Constitutional Law. There is reason to ask whether it is right that other factors cannot be taken into account — for example: social considerations in a broader perspective – than that of the ‘Best of the Spirituality and the Promotion of Information’ – also in the management of funds, such as: that people should be able to own the land on which their house stands. The issue of the management of the Information Society's fund was raised at the Court of Justice in plenary in May 2010. The case concerned whether the prior instructions – given by the Royal Resolution – on the redemption and regulation of a fast fee in fixed conditions in state or state-run establishments could be relied upon by the Information Society's fund. The instruction meant more favourable conditions for the parties than under the Law of Santa Claus. That is, the government in the management of the fund's properties had not only taken into account what would maximize the fund's profits, but also what was socially beneficial, and what was beneficial for the parties to the fund's properties. The question was whether this was contrary to the Basic Law § 106. The Supreme Court divided into a majority of nine judges and a minority of four judges. The proposers agree with the minority in the Supreme Court in its judgment. The State should be able to stand freer in the management of the Information Society's fund than the majority of the Supreme Court stated. Among other things, it must be possible to take more account of what will be in the best interests of society as a whole, and not just what will maximise the fund's profits. But let me make it clear: a systematic collection of the fund's funds will clearly not be in line with the purpose of Section 106. That is not the background to the proposal either. The dissent in the Supreme Court shows that there are divided opinions as to whether § 106 imposes such strong ties on the administration as the Supreme Court majority stated. Therefore, in order to avoid the future interpretation of the provision, Section 106 should be amended. We therefore propose to include a clarification in the Basic Law § 106, that it should be the government that administers ‘the benefied Goods of the Spirituality’. It may be claimed that this is the case today, but by clarifying this in the provision, there is a clear signal that the government is somewhat freer to determine the principles of administration and that these have been adjusted to the interpretation established at that plenary session of the Supreme Court. Finally, we suggest that the administration be added to the King, i.e. to the government. But the intention is not to give the government the exclusive right to rule over the administration, a prerogative. The size must be able to instruct the government about the administration, as the Storting should in principle be able to do today. The proposal has been promoted in three different ways. All options are designed in two language versions: one in the original language and one in book goals and new Norwegian. The proposal is recommended at the warmest of all for the coming bigotry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e634	The understanding by the Supreme Court of the Constitution § 106, which deals with the beneficient goods of the clergy, i.e. the Information Society's fund, makes it necessary to amend the Basic Law so that the funds of the Fund can be disposed of in accordance with the wishes of the Storting, and I will believe in the actual purpose of our predecessors. When the beneficent goods of the clergy were laid down in the Constitution, it was in the best interest to ensure that the revenues were used for the best of the clergy and the advancement of the information. The intention was not to release the fund from other central government, much less to manage the fund’s resources in breach of general social interests. The management of the Information Society’s fund was therefore the subject of the Supreme Court proceedings in 2010. The case concerned the redemption and regulation of a fast fee, and whether a charge in the form of a royal resolution could be applied to the Information Society’s fund – or otherwise: Was the Information Society’s fund’s management of fixed properties bound by the market values of the Law on Landfill, or could the Information Society’s fund be instructed to lay down favourable conditions for fixed fees and redemption rights? So the Supreme Court divided itself into a majority and a minority, and the majority concluded negatively for the interests of the state and the landowners. The Supreme Court could not see that the government could oblige the fund to manage its resources in line with general social and private interests when, in the opinion of the Supreme Court, this is done at the expense of the purposes to be pursued by the Constitution § 106. Of course, I take note of the opinion of the Supreme Court. Therefore, we now need to amend the Constitution so that the Fund of the Information Society ceases to be a State in order to become part of the State, by managing the Fund's resources in line with the guidelines laid down by governments and the Storing. Then, of course, I shall hurry to add – like the representative Myrli – that it is not the intention of the proposers to change the purpose of the fund. The funds of the Fund shall continue to be managed for the best interests of information and mentality. Today, the information service fund has a very large economic and financial activity away from the Fund's original tasks, but still for the benefit of the Norwegian Church. Nevertheless, the State and the municipalities now cover the most important of the Church's expenses. The fund’s return has gradually become an integral part of the Stortingen’s annual appropriations to the Church over the State budget. In other words, it is the State and the municipalities, and not the Information Society's fund, which essentially serves the purpose of the Basic Law § 106. In consequence, you could expect that the government could also influence the fund's management, but that's not the way it is. The relatively reckless property management of the Information Society's fund can be illustrated by the following example from my home country: 60 landowners in the Re Municipality of Vestfold have demanded redemption of their properties according to the rules of the Law on Landing. The redemption case has been dealt with by Nordre Vestfold District Court. Gender is declared in the district court with prices from NOK 100 000 to NOK 200000 for a dwelling space of less than 1 dean. Re municipality is not a press municipality in the case of land prices. But this was not good enough for the Information Society's fund, which appealed to Agder Law of Law, which in turn has made the difference with almost the same result as the District Court. The information agency's fund did not agree with that either. The fund has enough money and resources to appeal to the Supreme Court, which will deal with the matter for the third time now in 2013. The trial process is a great economic impact for the landowners. It knows the Information Society's fund and obviously speculates in it. The parties simply do not have enough money to fight for a long time in all courts against the Information Society's fund, but are now dragged into an evil spiral, and with this they have to pay great costs to get a redemption of their homes, which they are entitled to. This is solved by legal certainty for the Santa Claus. We just can't have it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e654	The issue of ownership of the Information Society's fund has been under debate many times and for several years. In the context of the 2008 State-Church Agreement, a unanimous committee wrote the following: ‘The Committee agrees with the Gender Committee that, regardless of how the ownership of the fund is assessed, this will be a political issue on which the Storting is legally free to decide in the context of the selection process.’ The proposal thus states that ‘the provision implies that the purchase sums and income from funds and properties owned by the Information Society’s fund may be used only ‘for the Best of the Spirituality and the Promotion of Information’. The proposers have no intention of changing this.» In addition, it says: ‘In practice, the management of the Fund by the State has also been subject to strong restrictions. The limitation in the use of the fund's resources laid down in the Basic Law, § 106, has been interpreted in such a way that it also ties in with the management of the fund's assets and properties. In the view of the proposers, this is not clearly enshrined in the Constitution. There is reason to ask whether it is right that no account should be taken of other matters — such as social considerations in a broader perspective — than of the ‘Best of the Spirituality and the Promotion of Information’ also in the management of funds.’ The question is, what are the proposers for this change want to spend the money on? To the extent that the representative Sverre Myrli gave a good example. For the last time the Workers' Party tried to address the fund in a broader social sense, it was precisely in the Santa Claus case. Despite clear legal advice and the opposition warning that this was unconstitutional, the government chose to break the Constitution. The Constitution sets clear limits on what the fund can be used for. At the time, it seemed that the government didn't think they had to deal with the Constitution § 106. Fortunately, the Supreme Court set a clear limit on how this government could act. If not the Supreme Court by a large majority had stopped the government's idea, it would mean that the fund's values would be reduced by an estimated 1.1 billion. kr. In addition, annual fastening charges and fixed income would be reduced by 20 to 25 million. kr. It's not small money. This would mean that the fund's values were transferred not to society but to individuals. The government has since had to pay approx. 554 million. NOK in compensation for the Information Society Fund. Some of those who were so lucky that they had attached the land to the fund – as opposed to many other landowners in the country – were granted a significant discount by the government, a discount they could reap again a significant gain from if it was realised by a subsequent sale of the property – i.e. a mere transfer of money. In this way, the government took values that the Norwegian Church has over time counted as its heritage, and with a pen stroke, the government transferred values from the community to individuals. Now it didn't go through in the Supreme Court. That is why we are trying – at least I'm interpreting the proposers like this – rather than changing the Constitution. Let me say it like this: it's allowed to be clear. It's allowed to be raw, and it's affordable. But if you're out, you have to be out of your own money. Taking away from local child and youth work, from the refurbishment of clergy homes, from those performing a service in the Norwegian Church – that is, from the community – and giving to private people – is not generosity. It is common to characterize what you see as a little bad suggestions, as a little thoughtful, but I will not do so in this matter. Instead, I would rather call it extraordinarily well thought out. Not in the sense that I think it is a good proposal, but the proposers know very well what they want: they want to drain the fund for other purposes than what was intended. When giving million gains to selected landowners is considered to be OK, the funds can really be used for anything. The fund is currently used for what it was intended – child and youth work, religious training, religious service life, pastoral homes and other purposes, and so I hope it can remain in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e683	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e686	Here I believe there is a need for information for the best of the mind, because the representative Bekkevold has misunderstood a good deal. Firstly, we shall not change the purpose of the Information Society Fund. Nor are we going to change the use of the funds of the Information Society's Fund, as reported by Mr Becquerad. What we have proposed is that we should look at the management of the fund's resources. It surprises me that a representative from the Christian People's Party has no understanding of the situation of desperate Santas who are unable to take over the land on which their house stands – which it may have been on for many decades, and on which they have spent all their savings and leisure time working – and no understanding that there is reason to see whether there is anything other than purely profit maximizing considerations that should count in the management of the fund's resources. It is not intended to be distributed from the Fund's resources for any other purpose. The use is still under way, but it is the management of the fund’s resources that must be able to do otherwise. Other societal interests, other social conditions, should also be given some weight, not only purely profit- maximising considerations. The Eidsvollsmen had no idea that the Information Service's fund would go forward like this, when they incorporated this provision into the Constitution in 1814. The paragraph is more or less unchanged since 1814. I refuse to believe that they believed that the Enlightenment Fund would live its own life and herd around with ordinary people, as they do now. It must be possible to look at a slightly more prudent management of the fund's resources. But I would like to clarify again: it's not about changing the fund's purpose, it's not about changing the use of the fund's resources. I believe the proposers are on safe ground. We've been working on the proposal for a long time. It is not correct, as Mr Becquerad claimed, that there were unambiguous legal recommendations prior to the instructions adopted by the government. This is the disagreement also in legal environments, and I would like to stress that there was a large minority in the Supreme Court that meant something other than the majority. So all over the world, we're not. I hope that the next big deal has an open and prejudiced debate on this, and that we can adopt the proposal and abolish the last remainder of the housekeeper's service – the Santa Claus Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e703	Several have not asked for the floor for Constitutional Amendment No. 12th@item: inlistbox Draft Constitutional Law 26: Municipal Maritime Administration
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e712	This is a constitutional proposal by the undersigned, Lars Peder Breck, Jenny Klinge, Hallgeir H. Langeland and Aksel Hagen on the amendment of sections 49 and 75 of the Constitution, the foundation of municipal maritime administration. The proposers point out that the Norwegian Constitution, unlike the other European constitutions, is the only one that does not express municipal maritime governance through a paragraph. Over the years, a number of constitutional proposals have been promoted with different wording to express the municipal maritime administration in the Constitution. The size has dealt with and rejected all proposals so far. In the last setting, Input. 298 S for 2011–2012, the majority pointed out that this proposal did not clarify the type of local democracy to be constitutionalised and that it could lay a static framework around today’s model and thus freeze the dynamic link between our levels of government, which would, in turn, delineate local democracy. The majority rejected last spring's proposal to legislate local democracy. This was done by the Stortinget, the sail of representatives of all the political parties on the Stortinget had signed the proposal in 2008. By ratifying the Charter of the Council of Europe on local maritime governance, the Stortinget has committed itself in many ways to codifying the principle of local maritime governance in the Constitution. The municipal maritime administration of Norway has certain institutional elements: free choice, the status of municipalities as a maritime object, the right to tax and the right to take on tasks which are neither prohibited nor placed with other bodies. Municipal Maritime Administration requires a State. The function of the municipal maritime administration is up to the people through practice and the decision of the elected local government. Municipal maritime governance is strong in our people. The Presidency laws made it possible to mobilize the people as advisers and have been a strong asset to our democracy. The municipal maritime administration has given – and still gives – added value. I want to underline that – added value – for the state. The elected representatives perform a job that the state otherwise had to have many employees to do, and the elected representatives do very much good work. The municipal maritime administration shows the community of interests and the close trust between the top and bottom of our management system. Local political judgement is also important when national policies are to be implemented locally. A fundamental law of the municipal maritime administration shall not, and this is essential, prevent the State from remaining active and demanding in the future for municipalities to translate national ambitions into local practice, as the State has helped through the municipal maritime administration to make it more powerful. In the future, therefore, the size should also have the power to transform the municipal institutions according to changing needs and assumptions, i.e. essentially: the foundation of the municipal maritime administration – which gives added value to our democratic system, which provides an opportunity to undertake tasks that are not prohibited or that are imposed on others – while at all times changing the content of the municipal maritime administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e729	It is important for me to say that this is not a debate for or against the importance of local democracy or the position in Norwegian society. We're all a few of them about that. Local democracy is one of the most important values we have in the Norwegian administration and otherwise in society. We're going to have local elected bodies in Norway. This perception is constant and strong at all levels of administration and among the population — fortunately. Local democracy is, of course, an important guardian and pillar of democracy itself. I'm busy having a running debate on how best to make it possible for local democracy to continue to be exactly that. The municipalities have been and are a decisive piece in the puzzle called the Norwegian representative democracy. The municipalities themselves have moved more real power closer to individuals and communities, and they are finding new opportunities to solve welfare tasks. This is a fundamental social democratic value. In the past, the proposal – on which the representative Lundteg was involved – has been rejected for several reasons, particularly the last time, given whether local self-government and local democracy will have a different interpretation in the future. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee held a hearing, including: that was one of the questions. From all of them it emerged that a future interpretation would make no difference in the scope of the operation, based on the Norwegian management structure, even though the proposers do. In other words, the possibility of interpreting this difference lies in the political landscape of the future – and the future itself is one of the things that this hall cannot control. During the hearing, information was also provided that could not be ignored. Both the KS, the historian, the public sentinel and in other contexts, lawyers also stated that this proposal could change the practice of division of tasks in Norway in future interpretation. It also emerged that we can experience – as Lundtegen was in the past – a stagnation in the dynamics between the state and the municipality. That's the interaction there that's solved and found solutions to create maybe the world's best welfare system. So it won't be able to strengthen the municipalities, and it should worry us. There are compelling arguments on the part of the representative Lundtägen that Norway has committed itself through the Charter of the Council of Europe to legislating local democracy. The objective of the Charter and the proposal is to protect the position of local democracy and to protect it. That's the target. Is this being strengthened in Norway by a constitution? It's not as obvious as it sounds. Europe's political map shows us that states with constitutional local democracy have much weaker local self-government and with less impact than ours, so there is no connection there. Norway has had success with its model, where the state is a strong player for a fair and equal treatment of its inhabitants, regardless of which municipality they live in. But the most important thing for local democracy is that they are close to the effect of decisions, and that they have real power. So, the most important thing for local democracy is that it is local, that it is democratic and that it is strong. The principle of local democracy is anchored in our national legislation, and it is a strong and fundamental value. For this reason, more people are saying that the Council of Europe Commission is being met in Norway. Among others, the Municipal Law Committee has also said this: ‘In the opinion of the sample, it is difficult to say that it is directly required by a constitutional attachment of the local self-government in Norway.’ The uncertainty that a fundamental law actually limits self-government as a political normset and, in fact, does not achieve it should be burdensome. There are, of course, and dubious challenges associated with the system of today’s management levels. The local authorities feel that they have a lot of orders. It is very necessary to take political action to ensure good working conditions and cooperation, and I am sure that there are many local politicians who are with me in it. But the problems and challenges we have there are solved through politics, not through constitutions. The wish not to protect about this proposal is not to oppose local democracy, but it is a concern for local democracy. We want the best for local democracy. We want the country to provide the best possible services for its population. But when we get knowledge that the proposal may have unfortunate consequences, there is a risk I'm not willing to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e750	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e753	Concepts are important. When the present proposal relates to the concept of ‘municipal maritime governance’, it is seaworthy because it is the municipality and its democratic system at the heart of the proposal that is a better concept than ‘local democracy’. Local democracy can have more values in itself than just municipal, directly elected democracy. What I stressed very strongly in my speech was that if we now base the municipal maritime administration, it should not prevent – no on the contrary, it should be in that tradition – that in the future the state can also be an active player and make demands on the municipalities to convert national ambitions into local practice. It's very central to us in the Center Party. We're in that tradition. In a number of areas, it is absolutely essential that what is the will of the Storting must be put into action in the municipalities. Then there must be clear obligations for the municipality to put it into action. That statement from the representative Jette F. Christensen I can't see that has coverage for what I said, and what there's a great deal of excitement about among those who want a foundation law for the municipal maritime administration. What is, on the other hand, the underlying difference of assessment here between the representative Jette F. Christensen and the Central Party is the emphasis of the municipal maritime administration versus the size of the central government and the tradition of the Workers' Party there. So there are two traditions that, from a point of view, merge here, where the tradition of the Central Party has a greater emphasis on the interaction between state and local government, while the tradition of the Workers' Party historically has more emphasis on central government. Thus far, it may seem that we can land on different conclusions. But that's the important discussion now to see if you can't reconcile the forces here, so that you can get the best out of what is the thorough Norwegian tradition, that's the interaction between a strong state and strong municipalities, to complete our governance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e762	I had a post where I explained why I was concerned about this proposal. It's because I care about local democracy. That's what the representative Lundteg also does. There are some, but we have different interpretations of that as for example. came out of the hearing of both of us on the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs. My hindrance and my reason to be concerned about this proposal have nothing to do with government or central government – almost the other way around. I'm busy that local democracy in Norway is going to be strong, that it's going to have the best conditions, and that it's going to be the best way to do the tasks that are so important to us all every day. That's what's at the root of my posture. When we get to the right that this will not necessarily have the positive consequences that we want, when we know in our hearing that local democracy can end up not being strengthened by such a constitutional change, I take it seriously. I'll be worried. I would much rather have ongoing political debates on the relationship between state and local government and use the possibilities we already have today to bring about a living democracy in all stages and strengthen local democracy as an institution. I don't dare gamble on it when we get such a unison signal that the proposal might not have that kind of effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e771	Several have not asked for the floor for Constitutional Amendment No. 26. Draft Constitutional Law 27: Basic law of the krona and the ear as a Norwegian currency unit
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e780	This is the constitution proposal by Lars Peder Breck, Jenny Klinge, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Jette F. Christensen and signed on a new section 38, the foundation law of the crown and ear as a Norwegian currency unit. The US Constitution of 1787 is the oldest constitution in the world that has been in force without interruption. It was one of the sources of inspiration for our own constitution. In the US Base Elve, it's determined that the United States should have its own money and coins plate. Norway's constitution is the second oldest in the world that has been in force without interruption, and in the basic law of November the money and mint were incorporated into § 110. This paragraph read: “Norway retains its own Bank and its own Monetary and Coin Services, which are determined by law.” The paragraph stood this way until 1911, when it was amended to legislate the State Reserve Fund. On 17 April 1875 the Stortinge adopted the Law on the Money Being, where § 1 – The Money Unit and its gold content – the first paragraph of the first sentence read: ‘The foundation of the Kingdom Coin System is Gold and the Money Unit shall be a Crown divided into 100 Ears.’ Today, the monetary unit is legalised in Section 4 of the Central Bank Act. The bank of Norway was formed by law in Stortinget on 14 June 1816. What the proposers consider to be fundamental is that a sovereign State must have the right to dispose of its own money and mints, and we therefore call for the institutional protection of the money base by legislating the Norwegian monetary unit in accordance with Section 4 of the Central Bank Act, namely the new Section 38: ‘The Norwegian monetary unit is a krona. The crown shall be divided into a hundred ears.’» - Simple and simple.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e810	Several have not asked for the floor for Constitutional Amendment No. 27. Draft Constitutional Law 28: Only Norwegian citizens should be included in the distribution of mandates
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e819	These are the constitutional proposals of Lars Peder Breck, Jenny Klinge and signed on the amendment of Section 57 of the Constitution that only Norwegian citizens should be included in the distribution of mandates. Under the Basic Law, the breakdown of grossing-up mandates between the different electoral districts shall be made every eight years. It's the states that are the electoral districts. On 7 May 2012, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs published the breakdown to be applied for the 2013 and 2017 enlargement elections. For this distribution of large mandates, the population is in the area of the county and the county. Only Norwegian citizens can be elected as wholesale representatives. Paragraph 50 of the Basic Law states that only Norwegian citizens can vote in roll-call elections. In § 57, on the other hand, the term ‘Invaders’ is used. The understanding of this concept by the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs now makes a difference on the basis of the calculation of the distribution of mandates to the Grand Duchy and those with voting rights in the electoral district. There is no indication that the choice of term, namely ‘Invaans’ in Section 57, was intended to give this difference. The proposers consider it important to have this corrected through a unique use of concepts. The proposers therefore propose that Section 57 of the Constitution be amended to include the number of Norwegian citizens in the electoral district, not the number of registered residents independent of citizenship, which, together with the area of the electoral district, is to be taken as the basis for the allocation of the Grand Duchy’s mandate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e828	Several have not asked for the floor for Constitutional Amendment No. 28. Constitutional proposal 29: Basic Law of Norway Bank
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e837	These are the basic laws proposed by Lars Peder Breck, Dag Ole Teigen, Hallgeir H. Langeland, Per-Kristian Foss, Martin Kolberg, Marit Nybakk, Jette F. Christensen, Anders Anundsen, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Trine Skei Grande, Jenny Klinge and signed on a new section 33 of the Constitution: Fundamental Law for the Bank of Norway. The Bank of Norway was formed in 1816 and is one of the oldest central banks in the world. Everything in the Constitution of 1814 was written into the Constitution § 110, when a firm: “Norway retains its own Bank and its own Monetary and Coin Service.” With this paragraph, Norway was to be secured a maritime money base even during the personnel union with Sweden. The wording of § 110 was completely stuck until 1911. The proposers believe that the Norwegian Constitution – as before 1911 – should mention the Bank of Norway and thus confirm that we have a central bank in the country. This Constitutional Bill is based on a State-law and historical investigation into the constitution of Norway’s Bank, to which the Ministry of Finance made its admission in 2011. The work was done by Professors Eivind Smith and Aanund Hylland at the University of Oslo and delivered on 22 December 2011. The studies are annexed to this draft Constitution. In the last two hundred years, central banks have been established in all maritime states. More recently, the European Central Bank has also been established and ratified. Both national and transnational are these special institutions: they have the exclusive right to mint and issue banknotes, they are lenders in the last instance, and the international financial crisis clearly demonstrated the crucial role of central banks in economic society. Following the current purpose clause, Section 1 of the Central Bank Act, the Bank of Norway shall: «be an executive and advisory body for monetary, credit and currency policy. It shall issue banknotes and coins, promote an effective national and foreign payment system and monitor money, credit and currency markets.’;» The tasks of the central bank have varied over time. The same is true between the Bank of Norway and the Governing Boards — and this will continue to be the case. The proposers do not propose that the constitutionalisation of this implies anything more than the constitutionalisation of the current model itself, but it is high time to make the bank more visible as a central state institution in Norwegian constitutional democracy. The proposalers therefore believe that entering Norway’s Bank into the Constitution is in line with the regular but careful revision of the Constitution that has taken place in recent years. It is worth mentioning that our Constitution already contains paragraphs on other important institutions, such as the Riksrevisionen and the Civil Ombudsman. In other countries, the list of institutions governed by law is long. The proposers propose that Norway’s Bank should be re-established in accordance with both the Norwegian constitutional history and the special and central location of the bank in the state apparatus. The proposal is not intended to cut off the relationship with political governance of the business of the bank or the framework within which the Bank of Norway will otherwise work. It does not aim to change the function or role of the Bank of Norway. The meaning of a short and confirmation foundation law is to make it clear that the bank is a cornerstone of the Norwegian state. It must be mentioned that, according to Professor Eivind Smith, the draft constitution is neutral in view of Norwegian membership of the European Union, including economic and monetary union. At the discretion of the proposers, the words "smart" should be minimalist. It is enough to state that in a new section 33 it should be called ‘Norges Bank is the country’s central bank’. Finally, it would be very symbolic to deal with and decide on the proposal in connection with the 200th anniversary of the Bank of Norway in 2016. In addition, the proposers consider that, in the process of the appeal, the Supervisory Committee and the Constitutional Committee should invite both the Governing Council and the Representation of the Bank of Norway to make their assessments of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e869	Several have not asked for the floor for Constitutional Amendment No. 29 and Case No. So 1 is done. Thus, the Stortinget has finished a debate on the proposed constitutions, which have been based on the fact that the proposers who wanted to do so should be promoting their proposals in this debate today. This is the first time this has been tried. As you can see, this has been a historical debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e883	Despite the beautiful promises made in the government statement Soria Moria II to ‘relevate the work on children’s rights internationally’, the government has systematically not prioritised children’s rights in Norwegian foreign and development policy in recent years. Education for all is a principle of ensuring knowledge and labour that can contribute to economic growth and development. Education is also a crucial instrument for achieving development objectives related to health, equality and democratic participation. Education is one of the children’s rights that more than anything else provides the basis for development. It is therefore incomprehensible that the proportion of Norwegian education aid is reduced. Right-wing want to give priority to education. Unfortunately, Norway chose the role as a brake pad when the appeal mechanisms of the Children’s Convention were to be developed. It is becoming increasingly clear that children’s rights are also deprived in Norway’s direct cooperation with developing countries. Development policy must have a central objective of contributing to the empowerment of the next generation to meet the challenges of their own countries. The exercise of the rights of children must be a priority area. In January 2010, the United Nations Children’s Committee called on Norway to: «Take into account the final comments of the Committee in its cooperation with bilateral development partners». The U.D. subsequently asked Norad to make an assessment of how the comment could be followed up. The assessment was completed in the autumn of 2010 but has not been followed up. An evaluation of Norwegian and Swedish assistance to children’s rights from 2011 concluded that there were no indications that the comments of the Children’s Committee were used. There is reason to ask when guidelines for such use of the Convention on the Rights of the Child should be put in place. This 2011 evaluation has been little followed up. The guide to the evaluation activities states that the U.D. will draw up a follow-up plan within six weeks of Norad’s presentation of its follow-up note and that within one year it will report on the actions taken to follow-up. Norad made his note in November 2011. More than one year later, the U.D. presented its follow-up plan. But it's far from any plan -- there's two simple sides. There is a strong contrast to Sweden’s ambitious follow-up plan with concrete actions and commitments about resources. The most obvious difference is the question of integrating children’s rights into assistance in general. The evaluation said this is resource-intensive. Sweden, which is already doing that, is saying they're going to set aside more resources. Norway answers that this is a little realistic. It just means that the U.D. will not prioritise more resources for children's rights. While Norwegian embassies do not even have any instructions for dealing with children’s rights, the Swedish have clear dialogue notes and alerts several of them. In 2005, the Bondevik II Government presented a strategy for Norwegian work on children’s rights, called ‘Three Billion Reasons’. The 2010 note on the follow-up to the comments of the Children’s Committee concludes that this strategy was not followed up under the current government, inter alia. due to the lack of clear and clear political leadership priorities in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the importance of the child strategy for Norwegian development policy. There is reason to call for stronger signals that the government actually prioritizes the rights of children. A unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee in the United Kingdom has previously written that the issue of child marriage and forced marriage must be addressed in bilateral discussions with partner countries and that, as part of cooperation with some countries, professional assistance should be provided in order to establish effective legislation to prevent such abuses against children. There is reason to ask how the Council of State intends to follow up the signals of the Great Britain. Every day almost 1,000 women die of complications associated with pregnancy and childbirth. 99 pst. deaths of mothers occur in developing countries. Pregnancy is one of the leading causes of death among women in Africa and Asia. Many do not have the option to choose whether or when to become pregnant, and too few have access to safe and lawful abortions and basic gynaecological treatments. Few and simple steps are often taken to prevent the death of women in pregnancy. A healthy and healthy mother is also very central to whether a child is going to grow up. If a mother dies at birth, the child is more likely to die before it is five years old. The government deserves commendation for giving priority to maternal and child health in the 2013 budget. It has received strong support from the Christian People's Party and the Right. In addition, there is a cross-political consensus on the importance of vaccines in Norwegian development policy. I hope that the Council of State will not look blindly at the two areas in which he has strong political support, but rather have a constructive approach and signal the will to act in all the other areas which I am drawing up here, where the government does not give priority, or forgets the rights of children and children. The follow-up to children’s rights in bilateral cooperation is not currently governed by a comprehensive strategy and seems to depend on the competence and priorities of each embassy. There is a need for a clear strategy that determines how Norwegian embassies should follow up on the rights of children. For the right, it is important that the recommendations of the 2011 evaluation and the 2010 evaluation are used to develop a comprehensive strategy. I believe the following things must be absolutely central: to a greater extent, use the Children’s Convention as an important source of and guide to policy dialogue and the organisation of programmes to integrate children’s rights into assistance in general, in combination with targeted actions, such as Sweden has made more contact with local authorities on children’s rights through the embassies developing an online system in which the Charter-based and Convention-based comments to each country on children’s human rights are made available establishing a working group to assist embassies and answer questions and finally: provide assistance to individual embassies to gain experience from practical work and to provide work with a rapid and visible start-up. Children are the future. Still, there are three billion reasons to do an even better job of securing children's rights. I hope that this interpellation can focus on some of the mistakes and shortcomings that I believe the government's policy has in the field of development with regard to children's rights, and that there is a constructive approach here on the part of the government parties, so that we get both a more unified political stance in the Grand Duchy on the importance of children and children's rights, and, in particular, find common arenas where, through Norwegian development policy, the Storting helps children and children's rights to be significantly raised on the political agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e935	I find it difficult to understand how in the whole world the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark can say in one second that it is becoming increasingly clear that children are becoming a priority in Norwegian development policy, when in the next second he acknowledges the job we are doing on the issue of child and motherhood, where the bet – if I don't remember wrong, and as the representative should also remember – was the biggest single increase in the aid budget, in the development budget, in the current year's budget. As I have previously stressed from this speaker, the international human rights are the normative basis for Norwegian development policy. I have a number of examples of Norway continuously addressing issues related to children’s rights bilaterally, and we support efforts at country level that can show good results. Having said that, I must stress that Norway wants the follow-up to children's rights not only to be a matter-by-case matter but to have a solid foundation in institutions that have international recognition. That is why we are giving priority to strengthening the international organisations, the multinational system, for children's rights. Our support for the UN Secretary-General's special representatives for children's rights and the UN Security Council's listing of parties to the armed conflict who commit abuses against children is important. Norway is one of the countries most often addressing children’s rights in the reviews of the UN Human Rights Council, the Universal Periodic Review. This review is the most important, most profiled and broadest review of the human rights situation in UN member states. Norway's clear marking within the rights of children here reflects the great weight we attach to this field of rights in our commitment to human rights in general and to children and the follow-up to the Children's Convention in particular. For example, in the previous country review of Tanzania, we called for the country's authorities to step up their efforts to protect women and girls from sexually-based violence. It is also important that Norway does not restrict the mention of children’s rights to developing countries, but also addresses, among other things, developing countries. other European countries, such as Belgium, or Australia, if the situation warrants this. The UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for Children in Armed Conflict plays a key role in improving the situation of children in conflict areas, both through the name and shaming in his reports to the UN Security Council and through negotiations with parties in the armed conflict on concrete measures. Her work, connected with the Security Council's press, has included: have been instrumental in the release of thousands of child soldiers in the last year. Norway has supported this work both politically and economically. Norway has also supported the UN Secretary-General’s Special Representative for the fight against violence against children. This mandate was established in 2009 and is responsible for following up the recommendations of the UN in-depth study on violence against children. Norway, through multilateral and bilateral assistance and Norwegian organisations, contributes to concrete actions in a number of countries to strengthen children’s rights. Let me mention: Norway’s commitment to children’s rights is primarily driven by the UN system, in particular through its contribution to UNICEF. UNICEF shall base its activities on the Children’s Convention. Compared to the UN Millennium Goals, UNICEF is one of Norway’s most important partners. That is why we take a particular responsibility to ensure that this is an organisation that works effectively and reports on its results. This applies in particular to the Millennium Goal No. 2 and 3, education and equality, and the Millennium Development Goals No. 4, children's health, and to some extent a thousand-year-old's target. Five, moaning. Norwegian support for UNICEF is extensive and was in total nearly 1.4 billion. - Thank you. - Thank you. - Thank you. Norway’s efforts to strengthen children’s rights are particularly marked in the field of education. The right to education is enshrined in Article 26 of the Declaration of Human Rights. The Children’s Convention also confirms the right to education. The work on children’s rights is central to our assistance and dialogue with the countries of South Asia. In India and Pakistan, we have great programs to help bring down child mortality and secure every child born, the right to life. In Bangladesh, we work to prevent child labour and violence against girls. We are drivers of legislative changes and follow-up with concrete actions and action plans. Prevention of early marriages, violence against girls, violence against children and education as protection have been the subject of dialogue with the Dhaka authorities. Bangladesh has now decided to raise the age of marriage to 18 years. It works with dialogue, and it works with politics. Norway supports Nepal’s education sector programme — which will cut before the other Right. In the dialogue with the authorities, Norway focuses, inter alia, on: to children who fall outside the school system, and in particular to their education, educational languages and children with disabilities. Norway has similar efforts in several other countries, including Palestine, where we also support the creation of a child ombudsman. In sub-Saharan Africa, Norwegian support and efforts for children’s rights include education, health, equality, reproductive rights, reintegration of child soldiers and protection against violence and circumcision. We support education in Burundi to ensure children's rights to education after the country has come out of a long-term conflict. In Burundi, school attendance has increased steadily over the past few years. Today it is reported that almost all children go to school, both girls and boys. Children are particularly vulnerable in conflict areas – they are victims of abuse and violence and lack access to health and education. In East Congo, where the conflict is long-lasting – in fact, it is the bloodiest war we have seen since World War II, 5 million people are estimated to have been killed in the last ten years – Norwegian aid focuses in particular on people fleeing and combating sexualised violence. In the context of the escalation of the conflict in eastern Congo in 2012, Norway has condemned the recruitment of child soldiers by the M23 insurgents to both the Congolese authorities and the authorities of neighbouring countries. Somalia, a country that has experienced decades of conflict, signed the Children’s Convention during a previous transitional government in 2002. The need for Parliament to ratify the Convention has been raised on several occasions by the Norwegian side. I hope that I will have the opportunity to address the need to ratify the Children's Convention when I meet Somalia's Parliamentary President, Mohamed Osman Jawari – who, incidentally, are thronders and have lived in Trøndelag for 18 years – here in Norway on 10 April. Norway has supported the establishment of a centre for decapitators from Al Shabaab in Mogadishu, which prioritises basic training and reunification with the family of minors. About 560 defectors have been followed through this center. Crossing girls and young women is still a major problem in many African countries. I use the opportunity to say that this has nothing to do with religion, this has to do with traditions. In Ethiopia, Norway’s support for the work of young women on reproductive rights and the fight against gender mutilation is important. Cropping is prohibited in Ethiopia — otherwise also prohibited in Somalia, under the new Constitution — but is nevertheless extensive. Norway supports the Redd Barna and the Church's Emergency Aid Programme and UNICEF and UNFPA's Youth Reproductive Rights Programme. Both programmes show clear positive results. The number of women circumcised in Ethiopia is falling, more and more religious leaders are distancing themselves from the practice, and the programmes reach an increasing proportion of young people. In 2011 in the hearings of the UN Human Rights Council for Malawi and Mozambique, Norway highlighted the need to improve the protection of children from abuse, sexual exploitation and harassment and recommended Mozambique to strengthen legislation and adopt an action plan against sexual abuse and trafficking in human beings. This is talking about how we work. We work from the universal periodic reviews of the Human Rights Council and follow up on the concrete points that emerge there, such as: human rights violations. In the wake of the UN MR Council consultation on Zimbabwe in the autumn of 2011, Norway highlighted the importance of strengthening vulnerable children’s access to health and education. Of Norway’s total eight recommendations during the consultation, five Zimbabwean authorities accepted and rejected wood. The two recommendations referred to the rights of the child were accepted. This gave us a platform for dialogue with the authorities on human rights issues, which has been followed up in due course. by Secretary of State Gry Larsen in political talks during her visit to Zimbabwe last year. I would like to stress that we will continue to have a strong focus on children's rights both through the international bodies and organisations in which we are involved, in our dialogue with the countries and through Norwegian assistance. We will also continue to include children's rights in our bilateral dialogue and demonstrate flexibility in supporting concrete actions. I hope that the review I have now had shows that the claim from Peter Skovholt Gitmark that it is increasingly clear that children are becoming more and more focused, not rooted in reality, but in Peter Skovholt Gitmark's imagination.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e988	Let me help the Council of State to get a different sense of reality. When the Bondevik II government offered a more comprehensive commitment to children’s rights before the day’s government took over, an evaluation of Norad was subsequently carried out. The Norad assessment was that the strategy was not followed up, because there was a lack of priority from new political leadership. It's Norad's own word. While I commend the government for their efforts at child and motherhood and have been a driver for this in the Storting, too, I think it is important that the Council of State has it that children should more than survive. It's very important, but we have to build on it as well. I want to return to the follow-up plan and the evaluation of Norwegian and Swedish assistance to children's rights. The Swedes, on their side, made an ambitious follow-up plan with concrete measures and promises of increased resources. The Norwegian answer was that it was a little realistic. The follow-up plan was on two sides, and the evaluation that recommended integrating children’s rights into all assistance is still to a small extent a follow-up plan. The Council of State would like to respond to whether he believes a follow-up plan is actually two small pages, and would like to make some comments on how he views the Swedish priority in the light of the Norwegian priority. I believe Norway has a significant competence today in terms of children’s rights. This is competence we need to be able to use far more actively than what we do today. But let me go back to where I finished my main post, namely by bringing up a number of points I think should be a comprehensive strategy on how we promote children and children's rights: use the Children’s Convention as an important source and guide for political dialogue, not as a priority. integrate children’s rights into assistance in general, not prioritized. have more contact with local authorities on the rights of children through the embassies, not prioritized. develop an online system in which the Charter-based and Convention-based comments to each country on the human rights of children are made available, not prioritised. set up a working group to assist embassies and answer questions, not as a matter of priority. providing assistance to individual embassies to gain experience from practical work and to provide work with a quick and visible start-up, not prioritized. Let's use this debate to twist the government's policy so that you actually prioritize, so that we can stand together. We want, I think, to stand together on children's rights and raise children's position in Norwegian development policy. It's a long way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e1018	I always find it fascinating to listen to the Right, as cutters in Norwegian aid, and who have intended to cooperate with a party that cuts even more in Norwegian aid, up to 30 p.m., talk about who is the priority in this regard. There is no doubt that we have done a job of prioritising efforts in several areas, as Peter Skovholt Gitmark also pointed out: on child health, on assembly, on education – there we have an effort now. We are the largest contributor to UNICEF's fund for equal education, to primary education for girls and boys – we're probably six times larger than the next contributor, who is just Sweden, as Peter Skovholt Gitmark pulled out as a model country. We prioritise children, but it is right that we do not prioritise children as a horizontal, cross-cutting consideration as the Swedes do. I'm going to give a reason for that: I think that the force in transversal terms is the greatest when you have cross-cutting considerations, and we've lifted the work for equality and set it up as the transversal consideration we give top international priority. That makes us just in questions about girls' right to regulation over their own bodies, the right to decide about their own sexuality, the right to prevention, the work on safe abortions – which I think some of the future possible government partners to the Right are not as concerned about as we are. These are moments where we have great credibility. Saying that we're going to "mainstream" more and more things is not something that gives more weight. I think it's more important to focus where it's most important, ‘mainstreams’ in gender equality issues. Important things that have happened since the strategy was presented by the previous government include: the work done by the international organisations, not only with the re-prioritisation of the rights of children that we have helped support in the UN system, but also with the UPR system, the Universal Periodic Review, in the Human Rights Council. This means that in precisely the areas where children's rights are violated, for the countries concerned, we have a recommendation on where it is important that embassies can follow up. Our embassies do. They closely follow up on the human rights reviews that are of the countries, and address issues, as the example I drew from Zimbabwe, showed very clearly. I will definitely look at some of the suggestions that Peter Skovholt Gitmark made, but I think we are following this in a good way. It's not the number of sides in a plane, but what's actually done on the ground, that plays a role.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e1027	At first, I would like to say that I was a little uncertain as to whether I should at all take the floor today, because the text of the interpellation appeared as something that should have been asked as a written question to the Council of State, or was raised in the Question Time. I must admit that I wondered a little about what was the purpose of the interpellant. Is it to know what the Council of State is dealing with in bilateral talks, or is it the chronicle of the inter-pellant in the VG on Tuesday, where he claims that Norway is depriving children, which is really the agenda? After hearing the interpellant's posts, it was obviously the last. I think it's pretty neat to say that the government doesn't give priority to children and children's rights, because it's wrong. I would like to say that in recent years the government has systematically prioritised children and children's rights in Norwegian foreign and development policies, among others. through the UN system and the UN Human Rights Council. Norway is one of the countries most frequently addressing the situation of children there. What are children's rights? Well, that's the right to health, to education, to get food and to get the opportunity to live up by getting vaccines, to mention something. Then it is directly wrong to claim that this government does not give priority to children. For example, mother and child health were: the major budget winner of the 2013 State Budget. We are one of the largest individuals to UNICEF, and we have a big stake in the GAVI vaccine initiative. Since 2005, GAVI and the Global Health Fund have saved seven million lives. If this isn't to bet on children, I don't know. Right wants to enter into a government cooperation with the Advance Party, a party that proposed for 2013 a cut of 7 billion. kr in the aid budget. I suggest that the Right takes some time to think about whether that would have had any consequences for children's rights, for molestation and for vaccines. To me, it's obvious that such a cut would go out on the kids you're talking so hot to. I noted that the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, from the same party, moved out in the evening post yesterday and said that the Right will turn development policy away from billions and place more emphasis on trade – as if the size of the development and aid budget has no significance for what can actually be achieved from results! Billions actually mean a lot, and perhaps especially for the weakest groups in poor countries — as children. Unlike the Right, we believe that international solidarity is important and that the development and aid budget must be kept at 1 pst. of GNI. Our goal in development policy is to contribute to enabling more people to live in freedom from oppression, distress and unworthy conditions. That is precisely why the fight against poverty and for democracy and human rights is one of the main tasks of red-green government cooperation, and that is precisely why we have actually taken the lead in the international work on children's rights. The Minister for Development has explained many of the specific measures that the government has taken — without any fraud, which I have been told that someone thinks he should have brought. It's okay to disagree with the government and the majority of the population, but it should be right: it gets a little special when we know that the Right doesn't have one word about children's rights in its party program, and in its developmental manifesto – or maybe one calls it 'paper' in the Right – children are almost not mentioned at all. I am aware that it is approaching election campaigns, and that it is easy to criticise and make cheap points, but I believe in fact that in this debate, and in other debates, it is permissible to deal with facts and be honest. The voters deserve all the parties to debate on a factual basis, including with regard to children's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e1044	It is permissible to be engaged, but the President is in doubt as to whether the term ‘freak’ is very parliamentary.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e1047	I am pleased that this topic is being debated in Stortinget today, and would like to thank the representative of Skovholt Gitmark for raising this question. It is important to focus on children's rights. The effort to be made for children is not just about plans and appropriations, but it is about focusing on universal rights that apply to all children around the world. Unfortunately, respect for children's rights is poor in many places. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State Eidsvoll Holmås stresses that the work carried out by the government is rights-oriented. I am also pleased that the Council of State focuses on the need for universal rights to underpin the work done, both through Norwegian channels and the actions undertaken by Norway on their own, and through the work done internationally through the UN, and not least through the voluntary organisations. I am also pleased that the Council of States focused on UNICEF, but I missed a similar interest in the enormous and invaluable important work of organisations like the Red Children, and not least in the Gavi. In today's world, it's $61 million. children who do not go to school. Half of them live ashore, or in areas, characterized by war or conflict, and whether it is difficult to be a child in such circumstances, it is particularly difficult to be a girl. I myself visited a project in Liberia a few years ago, a reception for girls who had been systematically raped over a long time, especially by their closest relatives, and it was a very strong experience. These girls were helped through the United Nations system. Unfortunately, many of them were very young and had suffered serious injuries during pregnancy as a result of rape. Therefore, it is important that we focus on human rights, and not least on the rights of women and girls – and should – in the countries we are talking about here. Health measures are also important, especially for the very least. In a recent meeting with Redd Barna, they pointed out that there is a growing interest in the poorest countries in providing money from their own state budgets for health measures. In Sierra Leona, for example, a principle has now been developed that the kind of healthcare we're talking about here should be free and not paid for, but in a city like Freetown in Sierra Leone, there are just two gynecologists, and then it's clear that there's a lot left to do. It is difficult to be a child in poor countries, and it is particularly difficult to be a child when childhood and youth are affected by illness. I therefore think it is very interesting and very good to see the work that GAVI is doing to implement vaccine programmes. It is difficult enough to be young in a poor country, and it does not make the situation any better if childhood and youth are affected by illness. That's why I think it's important that we step up our efforts for children's rights and opportunities for a better life. I think it's good that there's consensus on a lot about this, but this is a matter of priority. The Council of State was very concerned that if an action plan is only on two sides, it is the content that counts. I want to add that it is not the size of the budget that matters, but to a much greater extent the way in which the money is spent. It is those who are children and young people in poor countries today, who are primarily the key players in creating growth and prosperity. Let's help them in that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e1062	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for helping to keep the debate on children's rights in development policy up and running. There is a broad political consensus that children’s rights should be an important priority for Norway and, as the Council of State indicated, only so much can be achieved by keeping children on a case-by-case basis, and therefore the multinational institutions are also so important. Like Myhre, who spoke before me, and others, I want to raise the important gender perspective. Very many of the abuses committed against children in the world today are perpetrated against girls because they are girls — girls who are deprived of the right to be children by being coerced at very young age, as if they were someone’s property, girls who were sexually mutilated, and girls who are punished for standing up for education and gender equality, such as those who have suffered sexual harassment. The girl in Pakistan that we have all learned to feel for her courage in meeting the darkest and most reactionary forces. Young girls' rights are under much greater pressure today than just a few years ago. Countries like Poland, Egypt, Iran and others have joined the Vatican in order to prevent a policy that protects girls from abuse and that gives them the control they must have over their own bodies and their own lives. The values we agree on in Norway are under direct attack in many places in the world and from many parties, and it is the youngest who will suffer most from it. Interpellant Skovholt Gitmark has, as a premise – it was very clear in his contributions as well – that the red-green government does not prioritise children and young people in development policy. I think the Council of State has thoroughly refuted that. Then it is tempting to ask questions back to the interpellant. For this is not the first time that the Right is accusing the Swedish Government of not giving priority to a given field of development policy, and that should indicate a high level of ambition on the Right side, but since the Right controlled the country, the Norwegian aid has doubled. It's doubled! And that's achieved by standing firm at the 1 pst goal – a goal that the Right will not guarantee that they will stand by. They have said, on the contrary, that they will go away from that goal. Everything in the Right Development Policy suggests that less money will be spent on assistance under any Right Rule. And I totally disagree with the representative Peter N. Myhre: it obviously plays a big role in how much resources you spend on development policy. The right cut comes before the Progress Party has got its say. The Progress Party will cut Norwegian aid by 30 p.m., we will believe their current alternative state budget, and it does not require much political foresight to predict that the development policy of a possible Right/Friday government will lie somewhere between these two parties – and then we are talking about several billion dollars less in aid and solidarity to the rest of the world. Then you answer the questions: What will the Right Priority down? Is it to bet on children when you, for example, Is all the help given to the children of Nepal, as proposed by the Right, to finance tax cuts for wealth in Norway? If the policy of the red-green government is too weak, what will the interpellant call the Right Party and the Progress Party's own policy, which involves both a large actual billionaire and a limited geographical impact field? How will the Right ensure an effort for children elsewhere than in Africa when the Right itself has put such clear limits on where to operate in aid policy? Children’s investment has the largest increase in the development budget for the current year. Is it so to understand that when the Right Party and the Advance Party are to balance their development budget, education is the only thing to be saved, while everything else is to be cut? One would almost believe it. It would be interesting to get an answer to that, so that the gap between our policy and the Right and the Advance Party can be balanced with efficiency alone, I have little faith in. It's not just the number of pages and what you say, which is important, but what you actually get done and what resources you're willing to use to achieve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e1078	Children's rights are an important theme for the Christian People's Party. We think a society that's good for the kids is good for everyone. This applies both here in Norway and in poor countries. That is why I am pleased that the representative of Skovholt Gitmark has addressed this important issue, and I also want to thank the Council of State, which today confirms that he will place great emphasis on children's rights. But the debate does show that more can be done. The needs are great, and the system can get better. Norway can and must be better able to include children’s rights in bilateral talks with Norwegian countries of cooperation and in the planning and follow-up of Norwegian-funded assistance programmes. The current Minister for Development Hilde Frafjord Johnson presented in 2005 an ambitious strategy on how Norway should work for children’s rights. The strategy, as mentioned earlier, was called Three Billion Reasons, because – as Frafjord Johnson said – there is not only one reason to work for the welfare and rights of children and young people, but as many as there are children and young people in the world. Therefore, it is disappointing to see that the strategy was not followed up after the government change. It is particularly sad to see the reason, and then you can quote the assessment from Norad – as actually Skovholt Gitmark mentioned earlier – that was: ‘The lack of clear and clear political leadership priorities in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the importance of the child strategy for Norwegian foreign policy.’ The lack of priority is evident when we compare the follow-up plans for an evaluation of Norwegian and Swedish assistance to children’s rights from two years back. Where the Swedish follow-up plan is ambitious and detailed with more concrete proposals for strengthening the work, the Norwegian plan contains only a few vague sentences that we should improve. Plan and UNICEF have sent the Foreign Affairs Committee a letter proposing how Norway can strengthen the work on children’s rights in our bilateral cooperation with developing countries. There are several good and concrete proposals that the Christian People's Party recommends are being implemented. We would like to challenge the Council of State to decide whether the government will follow up these proposals. We believe it is time for the Council of State to put in place an ambitious strategy for the work on children’s rights through Norwegian foreign stations. As part of such work, it has to be made of greater resources. Sweden has decided to set up a dedicated working group to be responsible for the topic. Can the Council of State envisage doing the same in Norway? The Swedish have also prepared dialogue notes to provide embassies with guidance on how to bring up children’s rights in discussions with the authorities of the countries with which they cooperate. Such dialogue guidance practices should also be developed in Norway to ensure that the topic is well followed up in bilateral cooperation. Norway has come a long way in securing children’s rights here at home. It is difficult to understand that this competence has been so little used in our development cooperation. Save Barna's Secretary-General Tove Wang said at a seminar last week that children's representatives are a much more important Norwegian invention than cheese, and should have been an important export article. It's not hard to agree with that. I would therefore challenge the Council of State to sit down with its party trap the Minister for the Child to see how Norwegian competence in this area can be used to a greater extent in the development work. The aid programme Oil for Development provides a model that can also provide the basis for a similar build-up of competence on children’s rights. As a unanimous committee has mentioned earlier, it is particularly important to address issues of child marriage and violence against girls in dialogue with the cooperating countries. In addition to the fact that such abuses are themselves a serious violation of girls' rights, they prevent girls from going to school, and they also destroy the health of these girls. I hope that this debate can be a turning point, and I hope that the Council of State will now announce concrete proposals for changes towards a stronger commitment to children's rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e1101	First, I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up a theme that is very interesting and very necessary to address. But I would also like to thank the Minister of Development for the good report he gave on the priorities of the government, and on how to actually work quite deliberately against children's rights and have it on the agenda. Then get the Progress Party so that the hat fits both the SVs and the Workers' Party representatives here. They're talking about us cutting 30 pst for the current year. That's right, it's 7 billion. kr. That's 70 pst. Again, which corresponds to the 2007 level. In 2007, Norway also hit its chest and was one of the largest contributors. It's about prioritizing. There should be no doubt that it is incredibly important for the Progress Party to give priority to children’s rights – perhaps most importantly. But everything is related to everything, and for children to have good rights, their mothers must live, and for their mothers to live, they must also have something to live on. Then we are going to trade, which is also one of the priorities of the Progress Party in its aid policy. There is hardly any doubt that both the party from which the Minister for Development comes, and the Minister for Development himself, have good intentions regarding children's rights. Nevertheless, I notice that the Minister for Development actually said that equality was a priority over children's rights. It may seem to be a wrong priority, but we are different political parties with different political views. Unfortunately, in many of the countries for which we provide assistance, children also suffer. In Afghanistan, which we like to show as one of the countries with which we have actually done a great job, girls now go to school – yes, but that's about all they do. The rest of their daily lives have not been significantly better because we have provided assistance, rather on the contrary. Children in Afghanistan, and girls in particular, are worse now than ever. A report that came last year focused on children, especially children in big cities and their lack of rights. We know that children in some of the big cities in countries we contribute to, actually live from hand to mouth and have no schooling or anything. Then I think it might also be possible for the Minister of Development to see if we can create some projects relating to children in large cities. The Minister of Development also shows that countries are encouraged to ratify and sign conventions on violence, sexualised violence and child trafficking. I would then urge the Minister of Development to take a talk with his own government and first sweep at our own door, because we have not ratified the Convention to combat sexualized violence and trafficking of children through the Council of Europe. I also want to go as far as what the Serigstad Valen referred to – the unholy Trinity. It is a danger, and it is not only in the United Nations system, it is also in Europe. We meet it in the Council of Europe. As I said recently, it was decided in the Council of Europe by two votes that we still do not give an opinion on condemning abortion in the Council of Europe, because this unholy Trinity actually merges and rages women's policy both in Europe and in the rest of the world. I think you should notice that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e1118	The right has a high level of ambition for development policy. Assistance is a small but important part of development policy, and the Right is making badly needed priorities. From today's 110 lands, 60 pst. by the country of the world, we want significantly fewer. We also do thematic priorities, which are equally important. I understand that my words have little influence on the Council of State. Let me use the words of a person who may be closer to the Council of State politically. I have picked them up from the Facebook wall to the state council itself. There Helen Bjørnøy writes the following: ‘Gitmark, however, mentions several concrete examples of children’s rights not being prioritised in Norway’s direct cooperation with developing countries, which we have mentioned in the Plan several times earlier.’ Furthermore, she writes: ‘Can we hope for more constructive and offensive answers in the Thursday debate?’ The answer to that is, no. The answer to that is a government council that has jumped straight down into the trench. I wanted with my interpellation now to highlight children's rights and look at the opportunities we have to make Norwegian development policy even better. I came up with very concrete measures to do that. I'm glad the Council of State told him to look at them. But in it there was also a desire to remove the unfortunate focus, as the Council of State had to look at this. In many areas it is not a priority; it is a depriority of children's rights. I fully agree that you cannot look at the number of pages alone as to whether a follow-up plan is good or not. But a thin and poor follow-up plan, which is little concrete, will be a thin and poor follow-up plan if it is 2, 10 or 50 pages. A good, voluminous and concrete follow-up plan will always be a good and concrete follow-up plan, even if there are few or many sides. The difference is striking. Education is one of the areas of development policy that has been at rest on the ground and is one of the areas that, in the opinion of the Right, is most important. I have attended, in almost every big debate, to show that the Right's objective is: lasting out of poverty on the one hand and human rights and democracy on the other. That is our guiding principle and our main objective for development policy. Education is central to providing the basis for both. So I'm glad that several speakers were interested because I'm dating.no and how important it is that children should have the opportunity to be children and equality in that aspect. There's no difference, and there should be no contradiction in prioritising children on one side and equality on the other. The two are closely linked. Norway has good competence, and we're going to use Norwegian competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e1139	I have to admit that I did not see the first post from Peter Skovholt Gitmark as a constructive invitation to have a constructive debate on children's rights, and how they can get better. I saw it as a post that tried to say that the government is depriving children, with the sentence that it is becoming increasingly clear that children are depriving them of government policy. It's with all due respect to report the wrong thing. I believe that the review I made of the work we are actually doing shows that. I think that Karin S. Woldseth had a wise and good post, with many concrete points, and an assessment of the government's efforts, and what we say, as I see, is much closer to reality than what Peter Skovholt Gitmark brought up. We don't have to put similarities between priority and mainstreaming. It's actually a very important system debate. I would assume that since Peter Skovholt Gitmark moved forward the follow-up to the action plan, the follow-up plan, so many times, he has read it. Some of the interesting findings of the evaluation report mentioned by Peter Skovholt Gitmark are that ‘mainstreaming’ of children’s rights in Swedish development policy has had a limited impact. The fact that you ‘mainstream’ does not mean that you succeed much better. On the contrary, the review of gender equality policy, which is ‘mainstreamed’ in Norwegian policy, shows that it is not successful. Instead, responsibility powdering is achieved – it is like no one really grasps these things. That is why I believe that the most important thing that has happened – as I stressed, and as I will reiterate – from the previous government's strategy for following up children's rights to now is that we have put in place the universal, periodic review. We clearly say in the follow-up plan: ‘The reviews of the UN Human Rights Council and the UN Children’s Committee must be used more systematically by the geographical sections and embassies in planning and dialogue with local authorities and other donors.’ In other words, use as a recipe when you develop your local applications. Use as a recipe when the dialog appears locally. As it is also very clear and concrete: ‘Prepare for close dialogue with Norad and non-governmental organisations focusing on local context in the recipient countries’. These are the core issues that Peter Skovholt Gitmark addresses. This is part of the follow-up plan of the evaluation in place. I think it was Peter N. Myhre who pulled out the Gavi. I did too, but I'm not saying GAVI – I'm saying our vaccine program. You pull out the work we have on the Red Children. Together with Redd Barna, we developed, among other things, the model for schools like peace zones in Nepal, which Right now will cut out the follow-up, because they will cut out Nepal. [[President clubs]] Finally, I would like to thank Peter Skovholt Gitmark for continuing to initiate development debates. I encourage him to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-14.ana.ud282e1162	The President would just like to point out that the Council of State has to stay within the measured speaking time. Thus, the last word is made in case No. The second is that the debate is over. As a result, today's map has also been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
