ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e67	The called alternate of the Rogaland County, Kjell Arvid Svendsen, has now taken the seat. The representative of Jørund Rytman shall apply for parental leave from 4 February to 28 April. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, Ida Marie Holen, is proposed to meet from 5 February to 24 April. – It is also considered to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e96	It's a unanimous position I'm putting forward, and so the study is about sustainable reindeer management in Finnland. The aim has been to examine the extent to which the Ministry of Agriculture and Food manages and ensures that the objective of sustainable reindeer management in Finnmark can be achieved. The survey covers the period from January 2011 to January 2012, but it is important to say that it has a longer history behind it. Therefore, some history in this area: Already in 2004 the Riksrevision presented Document No. 3:12 for 2003–04, the National Audit Office’s study on the sustainable use of grazing resources in Finnland. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs then underlined the importance of setting up the industry for the maintenance and development of a living Sami society. At the time, the Committee indicated that international law makes it an obligation to ensure that the grazing basis for pure is not permanently weakened. The number of clean was too high in relation to grazing resources, and the misuse of seasonal pastures contributed to the depletion of grazing areas. It was then – already nine years ago – important for the Control and Constitutional Committee that the department should give priority to developing guidelines to reduce the purity. In 2004, the number was too high in relation to grazing resources. Incorrect use of seasonal pastures also contributed to the depopulation of grazing areas. The national audit has since followed up the case, in 2008, 2009 and 2010. In Document 3:1 for 2010-2011, the Committee considered that a new management audit was to be carried out in the field of reindeer management and indicated that the actual reindeer exceeded the limit of an ecologically sustainable number. As we can see, this has been pointed out over a long period of time. So what did the new survey show? I would quote the following from the main findings of the investigation. First of all: ‘The objective of ecologically sustainable reindeer management is still not realised. Large parts of the Finnmark range are excessive, as a result of too high a reindeer. There are still significant weaknesses in the management of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in order to achieve the objective of sustainable clean-up”. And finally: «Weaknesses have been identified in the use of the reindeer management law and the reindeer management agreement to ensure sustainable reindeer management.» This is a disturbing find. It is a unanimous committee which, once again, underlines it. So we share the Riksrevision's view that it's unfortunate that the goal of sustainable reindeer management has not been achieved, and that this is due to too high a reindeer in large parts of Finnmark. It is serious that, after so many years, the Ministry has still not achieved the Storting's goal of sustainable reindeer management. It is in this that the Council of State can point out that he is not alone in not having done this, but that does not make the burden any less. It is an objective that reindeer management should be ecological, economic and culturally sustainable. There is a clear link between the three objectives. Ecological sustainability provides a basis for economic sustainability and together provides ecological and economic sustainability with opportunities to preserve and develop cultural sustainability. This dependence must form the basis for the formulation of the instruments in the policy on reindeer management. The management of reindeer management is difficult. I think it's an overall committee that recognizes that. Responsibilities have been assigned to both the authorities and the industry. The Purity Act provides for increased internal autonomy in reindeer management, increased co-responsibility and increased influence for reindeer operators. However, the size has clarified on several occasions that the provision of the reindeer management law is designed in such a way that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food can also discharge its overall responsibility for achieving the objective of sustainable reindeer management. This is essential to ensure that the grazing basis of the Finnmark range is not permanently weakened. This implies that the State Council must actively ensure that the industry develops and implements reduction plans. I may place considerable emphasis on the term ‘implementer’, because there have been many plans, but not all have led to the desired result. We also expect the Ministry to ensure that the instruments contained in the Law on Repurchase Operations and the Repurchase Agreement are used. It is important that we now ensure that reindeer management is managed in a sound and sustainable manner. Proper grazing adaptation through ecologically sustainable clean-up is the most important measure to achieve the objective of ecologically sustainable clean-up. I therefore ask the Council of State to follow up the findings of the report and to ensure a binding timetable so that the aim of the Storting is achieved on an ecologically sustainable scale. It suggests that on this basis I recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e122	I thought the case spokesperson had done very well for this matter. It is, as the representative Foss says, a joint committee that is concerned that the measure of sustainable reindeer operation has not been achieved, and that large parts of Finnmark's territory are overgrazed because the reindeer is not adapted to the grazing basis. It was also the last time we were gathered in this room to discuss the same problem. When all parties gather that economic and ecological sustainability must be the basis of cultural productive power, it should be seen as a clear call to clean up the situation. We know that the department has ongoing measures and processes to fix this, but when the reindeer has increased by 40 pst. from 2002 to 2010, I feel the need to underline it. The members of the Committee from the Labour Party, SV and the Centre only differ from the majority on a single point. The Committee’s plurality writes that they ask the Ministry to complete its work before the submission of the State budget for 2014. We have chosen to ask the department to complete the work soon, and that is a practical reason. Slaughter is going on in the fall, and it is therefore difficult to measure whether additional measures need to be put into action in the 2014 budget or whether it is enough to stand firm on the implementation of measures already initiated. But I find reason to stress that when we use the word «fast» in our remarks about when we think the work should be completed, it means as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e129	Now I've been sitting on the Stortinget since 1997, discussing this matter for the same time. She's been up and down again and again, and a number of agricultural ministers have promised to clean up, but this has happened very little. There have been some attempts, it has to be admitted, but one is equally far when it applies – for us in SV – important matters to economic and ecologically viable reindeer. A few questions are also a reason to ask. It's very difficult to get hold of, for example. reindeer meat in South Norway. It seems like it's not just that one has too much production, but that one also has problems getting the companies into the market. It is also one of the challenges facing the Minister of Agriculture. I agree – I will be very brief on this – with the case spokesman and with the representative Christensen that we need to do something about this soon. I've been waiting 15⁄2 years. I hope that you don't have to wait so long to do something about this important matter, and I hope that the present Council of State will be the first to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e138	As we can see from the previous speeches, the nature of this issue shows that there are very difficult things we are facing. There has not been a lack of willingness among different parties, but it has proved to be so demanding that one has not reached the results you want. We are facing a business that is to be economically sustainable, which is to be ecologically sustainable and which is to be socially and culturally sustainable. The clean-up programmes have strong support in Norwegian society – and thank you for it – and the Sami culture has never had a stronger understanding as an important cultural carrier and as the Norwegian society wants to develop further. The core of the Sami culture is the natural industries, where the reindeer is the most central. So the cultural, economic and ecological things that we're facing here are very demanding. What happens then, as a totality, is that the number of reindeer farms is increasing – instead of reducing it – with the negative ecological consequences it has. For all livestock users, feeding an animal involves significant amounts of feed for the maintenance of the animals, i.e. maintenance feed, and when much of the feed is used for maintenance feed, there is little feed for production feed, i.e. to produce good meat. The purity must therefore be reduced, while at the same time strengthening economic and cultural and social issues, and I would like to draw attention to what the representative of Langeland said, namely the economic conditions and value of the product that the reindeer samples provide. For a long, long time it has been deficient and problematic to get a price for this product that is in line with the characteristics and characteristics of the reindeer meat. I would recommend to the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture – and others – that what is going on marketing, the development of products that give a higher value must be in the forefront, while also ensuring that those who offer reindeer meat have a greater market power and that one is not played out against another, and that one does not repeatedly experience that reindeer meat is priced unduly low. So if you can't see this whole thing, I'm afraid there won't be any significant progress in this. For reindeer operators, they want to develop their industry, and use the opportunities that are, and the state has a responsibility to organise the opportunities so that ecological care is done in a much better way than it is today, which I am absolutely sure the reindeer committee organisations are very interested in. So the focus has to be on economics and how one markets these unique products in a way that makes you get more money into the value chain for quality meat, and that one thus has the basis for having a lower reindeer, with a better economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e151	Thanks to the rapporteur for a good account of what the matter is about. Purgatory policy is a balance between three areas — animal health, nutrient basis and ecological sustainability — and there are challenges to clean-up in all three areas. The Christian People's Party believes that reindeer management can make good use of resources in marginal mountain and outlying areas and be a central bearer of Sami culture. The measures of the reindeer management policy must be designed in such a way as to ensure that the industry is sustainable in both an ecological, economic and cultural sense. The Christian People's Party, like the National Audit Office, is concerned that the efforts to reduce the reindeer in the most vulnerable areas of Finnmark take a long time, and we are concerned that this important work is being followed up to ensure that clean-up operations are as sustainable as possible. The purity of Finnmark must be significantly reduced in order to comply with the decisions laid down by the Rein driftssteuurt. There are alarming large regional differences in the economic performance of reindeer management and the fact that the reindeer numbers are not proportional to the resource base in some areas. So we are concerned about and believe that there is a need for a thorough review of the industry, both in terms of trends and measures to improve the situation of industry. The audit report shows that in the reindeer industry, especially in Finnland, there are challenges related to production variations — low slaughter weights, very high reported predatory losses and low productivity. There are major challenges in the industry, and the government, in my view, has dealt with the measures. We are concerned about – and therefore we ask again – a comprehensive review of the industry in a separate survey report. This should come as a separate message and not just as part of the agricultural message. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the efforts to reduce the reindeer in the most vulnerable areas of Finnmark take a long time, and we are concerned that this important work will be followed up to ensure that clean-up operations are as sustainable as possible. If the industry is to be made ecologically and economically sustainable, there are several challenges that need to be addressed. These challenges vary between grazing areas, but the use of pasture is an ever-increasing challenge. This applies to both excessive gravitational pressures, such as in Finnland, or to ensuring sufficient areas for carrying out the activity. If the industry is to be economically and ecologically sustainable, the large loss rates must be reduced. In particular, there is a need for a better understanding of real losses, and better internal control is crucial. Improved internal control will both reduce losses and improve quality at all stages of the value chain. Good internal control is necessary in order to improve the quality and stability of supplies, and in order to succeed in this work, the various actors in the value chain must take responsibility, both for improving the slaughtering, quality and marketing of reindeer meat. We meet the government's follow-up to this report and expect the government to soon put some tools on the table to clean up this unsustainable situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e164	It is a serious matter the Stortinget today has to deal with. It is serious because sound use of resources is essential for the future of the Sami reindeer operation in large parts of Finnland. It is serious because these issues have been on the agenda since the mid-1970s without satisfactory results. I am pleased that the Riksrevision has re-examined the situation thoroughly, and I have noted the Committee's views in the vote and in the various speeches here in the debate. I will, of course, ensure pressure in further work, so that we achieve the objectives of the reindeer management policy on ecological, economic and culturally sustainable reindeer management – also in those parts of Finnmark where the current situation is worrying. In reprocessing policy, we are dealing with a complex picture, which poses significant challenges. Purification is characterised by a strong culture, which is important for the individual's identity. The right to reindeer farming is an ethnically based special right for the reindeer-sam population. Reindeer is too much of a living. The pursuit of reindeer activities is protected by provisions of international law relating to indigenous peoples and minorities. The awareness of this is important for the basic understanding of reindeer management and the challenges we face. It goes without saying that there are no simple and fast solutions in the work on renumbering. Such proposals may quickly appear not serious enough and show too little respect for those concerned. The final figures are now largely fixed for all sides of Finnmark. This involves significant reductions in numbers in some cases. The implementation of redundancy reduction must take place within the framework set by the Act on reindeer management. Under the Act of Purity, the Reinhårtstyrelsen is responsible for its implementation, including the setting of deadlines. However, I would like to convey with clarity to the Committee of the Rein driftssteuur that the objectives of ecological and economic sustainability should be the overall objective of cultural sustainability. Furthermore, the Board of Directors and the district councils are responsible under the law for the possible imposition of sanctions. I would also like to communicate here to the governing bodies the Committee's agreement that sanctions should be applied if the purity is not reduced as intended. In addition, work on the development of rules of use for the remaining winter grazing districts will have a high priority, so that all framework conditions are put in place in these important areas as soon as possible. The objective of ecological sustainability has been operationalised through its own criteria. The criteria have been used to determine the purity currently implemented. With regard to a more detailed review of the content of the objectives of economic and cultural sustainable clean-up, this will be a priority. We must start with negotiations on a new reindeer agreement. I am pleased that the committee is so clear that the instruments of the redundancy agreement are being used to help reduce the clean-up figure. I would like to take this into account in the forthcoming negotiations. Finally, I would like to say that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is very conscious of its special responsibility for bringing the reindeer in Finnmark down to a sustainable level. This includes, among other things: is shown by the work on renumbering which has now been carried out and in which the ministry has involved itself in many ways strongly and directly in the processes. I can assure you that this will also be the case in the course.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e185	One more day’s debate – and I underline ‘again’. We have discussed this for so long, but I am afraid that we will meet this matter in the Chamber, if necessary, for a next period. We have to do something. I think it is bad to be Finnmarking and be in the middle of it and record what is about to happen. Especially bad I think it is when we also see that there is a disagreement between the reindeer operators. This is going to work in some areas, and it is extremely intrusive. The reason is, of course, large herds of reindeer and little pasture. This is not a pleasant situation – not only for those directly involved, but also for those who sit outside and register it. Now this isn't a everyday thing, but it happens too often that we just have to ignore it. The Purity Act states that the industry itself should take responsibility, but it has proved to be difficult, as many people have experienced. Large reindeer flocks are also culturally based. When discussing with the industry, many people say, "Yes, we have to take a responsibility, but it has to be the neighbouring side that has to take that responsibility." It's a challenge that more people have been facing. Then the question is, how long are we going to wait? There will be no sustainability in literally sitting on the reindeer and waiting for someone to take the first step. Groups in areas particularly exposed need to be reduced, as decided by the Management Board. But then all the parties must contribute, and will not the practitioners, the great community must develop and do something. In other words, it must go from word to action. For those who have to be in doubt: the cleaning industry is in Finnmark a very important industry. It's not least because it employs an incredible number of people, but it's also an important cultural carrier. In this way, we all want to find solutions that make us have sustainability, also a cultural sustainability, and that we guarantee the industry good living conditions. But someone has to take the first step. I encourage ourselves to do it unless the industry does it, and my challenge is that it has to be done quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e198	When we all listen to this debate, we hear that there is a very large consensus. There's consensus between the parties, we have a unanimous attitude, and there's agreement between the Storing and the Government. What's important to say before we once again put a dot for this discussion, is that this has been the picture for many years. But nothing is happening, as the representative Simensen was about to – or, that doesn't happen, what should happen. It shows a certain form of powerlessness that has worried me about this important industry, and this important cultural carrier, as he says. I very much agree with what is being said, among other things. by the representative of Lundtigen, on the importance of reindeer management for the Sami culture and on the importance of the protection of the Stortinget. There's no disagreement about that either. What no one has been involved in, and as I would say before we close the debate, is that when we read the statements from Sametinget, I'm a little in doubt if they take this responsibility exactly as the Storting thinks. I perceive that there is a certain difference in the balance sheet, and from the Sametinget side, there is – as I read it, at least – a thought that is at least not entirely in line with what Simensen says. This is what needs to be said, because I think some of the problem is here: the understanding in the industry itself – as has been said – and also in parts of the Sami environment, so that it is actually necessary to implement what the Storing decides. Because that's what's not happening. So the central authorities are a little helpless here. It's quite obvious when we've been running this since 1997, as the representative Langeland said. However, I am also in the situation that I cannot point out specifically what is going to happen, but I believe that what the representative Simensen was about to say should at least be a thought that the Council of State here should take on board. For what Simensen said was that then the great community had to go. It will now be a question of whether we are not at the point where all the good intentions must be followed up by purely concrete action. What coercive measures must then be put in place to bring down the reindeer – because that is what this is all about – should not I say here from the Grottings pulpit. But I want to give this challenge to the Council of State from here, because it is probably like this, unfortunately – unfortunately – that the government has to introduce some kind of coercive decision in order to get to what is the intention of the Great Government has actually adopted several times, as the Riksrevision – in its very good report, I would say – points out in a good and qualified way, and thus a unanimous increase now joins.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e209	As the representative Simensen was in the room, this is a matter of a long story, which I also brought up in my main post. This matter has many government councils struggled with. Some of the problem is that this isn't just an industry — it's important enough — but it's also a lifestyle. It's a way of life for people together, and I think the problem here is very much in rejuvenating for strong use of instruments in the implementation of, among other things. the redundancy agreement, because it often becomes a large-scale society facing a minority. I think you have to admit that it can be painful for any government council. At the same time, like the representative of Kolberg, I would like to say that it is now a co-consistent increase – across the political divides, in other words – and with the upswing of the government, which is behind an agricultural minister who might be shut up, as it is called in good Norwegian, in order to take a bit of a hard time. But there are important values that are at stake, including: grazing areas, which provide the basis for a culture, for a minority’s way of living – a way of life, and at the same time for an industry. Then the big community has a responsibility for this. That the combination with its composition does not always applaud an action, I think one should live with, and at least the Storting should be able to say clearly that this is the responsibility of the big society, and that it is a national responsibility to ensure that the grazing areas do not disappear in this way. For the sake of consensus, I can also join the representatives of Lundtigen’s posts in most areas – I do not do that every day. But I would like to see the Council of State on their many trips to advertise Norwegian meat, for Norwegian food, bring the uniqueness of the reindeer meat. I do not advocate any necessary price increase, but I would say it is an underestimated meat-type that should have a larger export market because it is unique. The Arctic has an attraction of more than the North, and this should be a commodity that could be traded more by. So even when it comes to advertising reindeer meat, the Council of State has a broad agreement, even if it had to go into commercial matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e216	In a debate with such a touching consensus in this Chamber, it should be unnecessary to take the floor. But the representative Kolberg made me do it anyway, also a little in the light of the debate we have had today. Several have said that they have been big business representatives since 1997 and discussed the same matter for the same time. The challenge of this national audit report, which is thorough and good, as they tend to be from the Riksrevision, is that the problem has increased. The challenges have not become any easier or any less. The problems have increased and, despite the fact that there is a touching consensus in this room that action should be taken. I think it's a little voracious then to follow the rhetoric of Kolberg, who actually says that we're a little powerless and looking at evolution. The size adopts a framework, we adopt laws and regulations to follow up on. It is the government that is responsible for implementing. So it is not this room that is responsible for implementing this hall's policy. The executive is with the government. I am simply not willing to share that responsibility either with the representative of Kolberg or with the other government parties. Here you have the opportunity to act with a large and good majority in the Stortinge behind you. A number of proposals have been put forward in this House that have been voted down, with a concrete point of action to address this challenge. With the little clarification that I needed to get under Kolberg's posts, I hope that the next time we discuss this matter, and we will certainly do so several times in the future, at least a development that goes in the right direction after the government, with the strong mandate they have from the Storting in this case, has actually done what they are going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e226	I needed to clarify the biological a little bit more in this matter, in the sense that the ecological problem is so closely related to the economic problem. Having many animals – too many animals – causes great losses to calves that are born, and it provides poor quality. So it's giving us a very bad economy. This is particularly serious in the north, while in reindeer-samian areas in the south there is a much better situation. It's about coercion decisions. The centre party does not go off the path of coercion decisions if necessary, but I think the way it is presented here at the end of the debate is a little square. If this assembly and if the government understands the situation very well and wants to get from a negative situation into a positive situation, then in order to get the professionals involved, one must also be willing to provide something that is beneficial, so that a process can get stronger in a positive way. I have not followed the reindeer production so well lately, but I followed it quite well in the 1980s. From that time until today, what has been the major challenge is related to quality, marketing, peculiarity and price. When the representative Foss says that he is against normal – it is well to take a bit on top – of what I am saying, while he falls on the classic track that there is no need for price increases, I want to link some remarks to that very thing. [[muttering in the hall]] Well, the amount of reindeer meat for each practitioner is the message, and that's to the extent that it can change the economic basis for the practitioners. But it is essential that we get the price of the reindeer meat. The Minister of Agriculture has seared a responsibility to market reindeer meat. It is probably not something more unique from Norway than reindeer meat. It's not something that's more exclusive, it's nothing more arctic than the reindeer meat, and thus has an opportunity to take out a price that is completely different from what it is today. That's why we need to get prices up, marketing up and market power up, so that the Sami people can get more to do qualitatively and produce a product that ensures both the economic, the ecological and the cultural characteristics that all of us agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e237	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e251	We are now considering a new management report. Both are on the verge of core tasks in the Ministry of Agriculture, but are all the more important to be reminded. It is a unanimous setting this time on absolutely all points. The aim of the Riksrevision study has again been to examine whether the sustainable management of Norwegian forest resources is actually taking place. The study covers a 10-year period from 2001 to 2011, but data from 2012 have also been included where possible. The forest sector has traditionally had a major economic impact on Norway. Forestry, wood processing and wood processing are important industries in the district of Norway. The forest covers approx. 30 pst. of land areas in Norway, and employment in forestry and wood-based industries is about 25 000 annual works. We have an annual growth of 25 million in Norway today. m3 and an annual harvest of 11 million. m3. The forest in Norway captures a CO2 equivalent to about half of Norway’s annual greenhouse gas emissions. Worldwide, the corresponding fraction is 20 pst. The total value of production in the forest industry is now 48 billion. kr, and we have an annual export of approx. Bnth, 13.5 Bnth. kr. Forest activity has a major impact on the achievement of national environmental objectives such as biodiversity, climate and outdoor organisation. The objectives of forest policy, sustainable management and increased logging have remained relatively stable during this decade, but in recent years more emphasis has been placed on the importance of forests in climate change. The size has underlined the importance of ensuring the consideration of future generations through an active and targeted forest culture within an environmentally sound framework. The Forestry Act requires forest owners to ensure a satisfactory rejuvenation of the forest after harvest. The main findings of the Riksrevision study are as follows: ‘The requirement in the Forestry Act of satisfactory rejuvenation after the maximum is not fully complied with. For a long time, there has been a lack of control of the rejuvenation obligation in the Forestry Act, but more action has been taken since 2010 to improve the situation. There is a lack of control and follow-up of environmental requirements in legislation and regulations. Forests need more information and guidance. Developments in crop yields are not consistent with the Storting's objective of increasing yields. The management of the underlying establishments by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is good, but it is difficult to give an overall assessment of how important environmental objectives have been met in forestry in the period 2001 to 2012.’» The Committee considers it appropriate to strengthen control and implement measures aimed at ensuring the follow-up of the obligation to rejuvenate and to increase environmentally friendly logging. On about 20 pst. in the case of forest land, for the 10 years under consideration, the forest owners have not taken sufficient measures to ensure that new forests grow up after harvest. This has to be changed, the report says very clearly. The Committee believes that sustainable management is a prerequisite for exploiting forest resources to the best of society in the short and long term. It is also important for the provision of wood on the international market. I see that the Council of State points out that it is mainly market conditions and economic development in forestry that cause low rejuvenation efforts after peaks in recent years. However, it is worrying that the requirement of the Forestry Act is not complied with according to Storting’s wishes. Better infrastructure and more transport opportunities are essential for the competitiveness of Norwegian forestry. It should be possible to simplify the code for the construction of forest roads. However, it must be emphasised that the construction of forest roads is based on industry and environmental considerations, such as: conservation of rainforests is carried out in a balanced and sustainable manner, as the Storting has foreseen on a number of occasions. I would also like to remind you that the principle of «freedom under responsibility» has worked well in forestry. The industry created the so-called Live Forest Project long before the authorities focused on this. It was in response to the fact that the market was also concerned with environmental concerns in forestry. It is also important to increase efforts in the information work in the forest sector so that forest owners are better acquainted with the existing instruments and their environmental responsibilities. Forest owners have been shown to want more information and guidance, in particular on the Forest Fund scheme. I think it is important to inform about, among other things. the economic benefits of the scheme. It is also important that the Ministry remove ambiguities in the legislation and coordinate the signals from the authorities of the municipalities and forest owners. It is of great importance that there be better coordination between the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Environmental Protection, so that difficult issues do not lead to unclear signals and long treatment periods for the affected municipalities and forest owners. It is serious that the development of the crop yield level is not in line with the objectives of the Storting. We therefore expect the Council of State to follow closely the findings of the report and to provide a timetable for needed improvements. I recommend on this background setting as it exists. It is, as I said, unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e315	It's a new experience to go to Stortinget's chair twice before lunch and be completely united in what Per-Kristian Foss has said – I'm going to take care of it right now. The size has agreed to a requirement in the Forestry Act of satisfactory rejuvenation after peak. There is, as the representative Foss said, a joint and consensual committee that sees this not being complied with according to what the Stortinge has wanted. It's worrying. The fact that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food takes this seriously is, of course, for us. We found it positive that one should systematize the control and information in an annual report and that one should ensure compliance with the regulation. It is important that what is unclear in the legislation is removed, so that forest owners have good conditions. The forest owners themselves have requested more information and guidance, especially on forest funds. Of course, that need must be met. I think the department has to work as much with information and organization as with control. There are positive economic benefits to the forest fund scheme, and forest owners must know that. It is important for forest owners themselves to be involved in shaping how the information on the instrument, on their environmental responsibilities and on their contribution is communicated in the best possible way. The Committee calls on the Ministry to take action to improve the availability of forest resources, including: through infrastructure, allowing forest owners to operate in accordance with environmental standards. On the other hand, this should not lead to peace decisions or other considerations that need to be taken to stimulate additional logging and rejuvenation. I refer here to the policy pursued in terms of cropping levels and forest road construction, including the necessary environmental considerations, as described in the Report. St. 9 for 2011–2012 Agricultural and food policy. It is the one who today presides on the policy pursued in this area and, together with the recommendations of the National Audit Office, it should also be the basis for future action.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e328	Just a few brief comments on the subject: The National Audit Office's report states that developments in forestry have not been in line with the Storting's goal of increasing logging within a sustainable framework in the last ten years. State Councils point out that there are market conditions and economic developments in forestry that are one of the major causes of low rejuvenation efforts after most recent years. Nevertheless, a unanimous committee is concerned that the requirement in the Forestry Act of satisfactory rejuvenation after peak does not comply with the wishes of the Storting. I hope the Council of State will take these unanimous and clear signals further. A unanimous committee also calls on the Ministry to remove legal ambiguities and to ensure coordinated and clear signals from the authorities to both municipalities and forest owners. It is also alarming that the objective of increased harvesting is not achieved. I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee calls on the Ministry to implement measures to improve the availability of forest resources, including: improved infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e341	Forest is an important resource. He is also an important dwelling for our biological deficiency. It is therefore important to keep more thoughts in mind at the same time when dealing with this issue. This is what the Riksrevision makes us aware through its report, not least that the Minister of Agriculture must look closer to the control body attached to the regulation on the power of the bearer and that what is unclear in the legislation must be removed for the benefit of the environment. Overall, the Riksrevision has some important comments on the agricultural authorities, so that they become more attractive – on the basis of the report – to meet the environmental requirements that exist. I thought the case spokesperson had a good opinion on the consensual committee position. Finally, I would just like to make it clear that today’s policy premises in this area are being made through the treatment of Meldning. St. 9 for 2011–2012 Agricultural and food policy. Here the premise is made when it relates to the cutting level. Here you can create the premise for forest road construction. Here you can create previews for the environment you want to capture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e352	First, I want to praise the work of the National Audit Office. The National Audit Office points out the Storting's objectives for the whole sector. There is a lack of consistency between the objectives set by the Storting and the results achieved — and it has the full support of the Centre Party. It's very important. However, it is a crossroads of thought that in a number of areas there has gradually become a disproportionate relationship between the objectives and the results achieved. This means that there will be too much focus on the work of the National Audit Office – on what is to be pointed backwards. There is something the Storting should take over, for the Storing's work should primarily point forward. You have to point out what you want with the different industries and what you want with the different industries – and there must be the strongest debates. However – when it is like that – we have to deal with it, and my post goes into it. Therefore, the article – perhaps more than usual – will be influenced by saying something about what we want about forestry. I.e. the use of forests is forestry. The use of trees is woodworking. Forestry and woodworking are linked. Biology and economics are linked to getting the overall results the Storting wants. This area is not located on the edge of the core area of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. It is in the middle of the core area, because the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is responsible for annual plants and perennial plants, and here we are talking about the perennial plants well called trees in Norwegian – bar trees and deciduous trees, which the President knows very well. So the nucleus is photosynthesis. I want to mention a little bit of the basis for forestry to be sustainable. The concept of sustainability in forestry is old. That this concept has its origin in German forest science over 200 years ago, is hardly known to most people. The idea was that the forest would be operated so that the maximum quantity could be maintained in the future. When the Forest Act now establishes that forests in Norway are to be managed in a sustainable way, it is in an expanded sense by taking into account environmental considerations other than just work production – multi-use considerations. Because today's forest is a result of how the forest was driven before, it is necessary to know the story when planning for the future. 100 years ago, the operation of Norwegian forests was far from sustainable. Agnar Barth wrote in 1916 the article «Norway forests with stormstorms against the downfall», where he took care of scattered tariff results from various parts of the country that showed that the forests were very hard hogd. The article strongly contributed to the Stortinge grant of money for the establishment of Landsforskgtakring and the implementation of the first national tariff in 1919. In each state, taxi lines were laid out five kilometres away across the main drivers in the counties. In a ten-metre-wide belt, all the trees were climbed up, and sample trees were taken for measurement of height, growth and age. Dead trees that could be used for wood were also measured up. The maximum strength was recorded in four classes: tillage, overheated, normal harvested and undercut. The results of each state were summarised and published in a small book. Buskerud was taxed in the summer of 1926. The rate showed that only 1.4 pst. the area was undercut. The majority, 86,4 pst., was characterised as normal, 11.3 pst. overcast, and a small part of it was designated as predatory. The volume of timber in all these categories was low compared to the current level. If the virgin forest exists, the areas must have been very small because the tariff lines were so close. Dead trees that could be used for wood were only 50 liters per deer, corresponding to a little bit more than what you get in a wood sack. It was probably a lot more degraded by death, but the amount was still far less than it is now. The state of the other forest counties was almost the same, all the way up to the north, while the west was by far deforestation. The total woodland area in the western counties was calculated at 536 000 hectares. Now it's 965,000 hectares, of which it's approx. 170,000 hectares planted coniferous forest. On the areas classified as forest, the standing volume in the coniferous forest was only 1,3 m3 per deer, in the deciduous forest it was only 0,8 m3. The growth was less than 40 liters per dean. It is so low that the ‘average forest’ in the West was technically impediment, i.e. unproductive areas. This tells a lot about how extensive and hard deforestation was in the region. It is this state, both east, west and north, that led to the transition to forest management and the great effort to rebuild forests in time after the first national tariff. Was the peak then much larger than it is now? No, no, no. Figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that in the decade from 1919 to 1929 it was hugged about. 6.2 million m3 of spruce and pine trees per year for industry. From 2002 to 2011, the corresponding figure was 7.6 million m3. The reason the forests were on the road «to the end of the downfall» in 1920 was not that the peak in itself was too high, but that the forest was drifted poorly. From the timber trade started around 1500 – and for one from West Fossen, it is a central year – and until 1920, most of the forest was driven with various kinds of pick-up stalls, where everything was cut down to a minimum and left the rest standing. Planting at maximum was almost non-existent. This gradually led to a sleek forest because the natural rejuvenation took a long time or was lacking altogether. In addition, the young growing trees stood in the shade of the big ones and grew slowly. Figures from the first national tariff show that there were only 30–60 small trees per deer throughout. It's too little to produce. The height growth of younger trees was also very low; the trees used 30–40 years to reach breast height and grew slowly until they were 10–15 metres tall. The consequence was that the production capacity of forestland was not used effectively, so that a lower maximum quantity than we now have led to a decrease in standing volume/biomass. Today's old forest, which is over 80 years old, is an inheritance from the time when the forests were driven by the principle of mowing the largest and leaving it less, and it has consequences when we're going to calculate what the forest can produce. The ability of the market to produce — bonity — is not only determined by the availability of water, heat, nutrition and light, it is also significantly influenced by the ability of the plant material to benefit from these growth factors. To determine the bonity, it is common to count oar rings at chest height and measure the height of the ten roughest trees – the cant – per deer. Age and height are then inserted into a mathematical formula for height growth that gives the height of the dominant trees at a given reference age. Forest scientist Bjørn Tveite has made a formula for this, which is calculated on the basis of data from many years of testing in a single aged forest throughout the country. In this country, we spend 40 years as a reference age, in Sweden 100 years. On very good soil, the cant will be 23 meters when the trees are 40 years old, measured at breast height. Conversely, on very bad ground, it won't be more than 5 meters. In recent years many have asked me if the forest is now growing better than expected. Several have noticed that when a measure of the bonity, as described above, a much higher amount is obtained by measuring in the younger and middle-aged forest than by measuring in the old forest, which is naturally rejuvenated. In higher woodland in the east, the quantity is calculated in old forest and in planted forest that lay right next to it. The old forest was on average four metres lower at 40 years of reference age than the younger forest. This implies that measurement in old forest would lead to underestimation of the production capacity of 30-75 pst, mostly at low bonities, at least at high levels. I took this lecture, because I have time for it, and the Storting needs it. There are numbers that the Norwegian Institute of Forest and Landscape, Ås, researcher Harald H. Kvaallen, is working on, and I'm proud that we have such people. This is like the professional biological foundation for what we are going to talk about here today. Thus, many surveys go in the same direction, and there is little doubt that much of the forest in Norway actually has significantly higher production capacity than we have so far estimated. In this case, we must be able to assume that the calculations of the potential for carbon dioxide binding in forests made in St. meld. No 39 for 2008-2009 and Climate Change, are on the cautious side. This is important, because now we're starting to get to the operational level: what opportunities the forest has to capture carbon dioxide and to fill its whole role. What is pointed out in the Riksrevision study is: Rejuvenation is not satisfactory and is not fully complied with; there is insufficient control of the obligation to rejuvenate; there is a need for more and better information for forest owners; and the development of the level of harvest is not consistent with the Storting's goal of increasing yield. That is correct, and it is said that the committee is in agreement with it. But why is that so? Well, it's been searing the understanding of the role of the forest and of the financial framework conditions that apply to the forest. In this room there is no consensus about what we want with the forest and forestry. Some people talk about forestry, others talk about taking care of the forest. We notice that the two conceptual pairs have different consequences for what we want with everything. The centre party, and I hope the government, insists that we talk about forestry: the use of forests – wood – wood processing. We need to have a common sense of reality to be able to correct the misunderstanding that has been pointed out here between the objectives and the current situation. We have an international market. We have a situation that is less manageable in forestry than in other parts of Norwegian plant production, but then, with our intelligence and knowledge, we have to use the instruments that, after all, exist. The situation today within the whole value chain, from planting to finished product, goes from bad to worse. Now we have to be pragmatic and willing to use the necessary economic instruments, so that there is more money in the value chain and more economically interesting to train, work and create new things within this. We don't get any closer to Storting's goal if you don't. The Parliament's report in five years will be just as frighteningly sharp on us if one does not use other economic instruments. We are talking about both instruments related to the current operating economy, and about the economic instruments needed to convert the industry, so that it delivers products at higher prices that give higher payments throughout the chain. It's a huge challenge, but the basis is the biological understanding of the productive capacity of the land, and what we do with it. But one must have people to enable the forest to produce, and then those people must have payment and respect in line with what it is otherwise in society. It's not like that today, and it's the big challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e422	I have to admit that I know a little less about forestry than the previous speaker, but I think the current president might be a little less than the previous president, too, so maybe it's smoothing out. I think the only thing I can sign up with here is a good deal of hours of forest planting at NOK 1.50 per plant and countless mosquito bites that came with it. I do not want to spend 20 minutes on an article about forestry, but I want to underline some points regarding the setting, just as SV did. In the case of forestry, it is important to have more tanks in your head at the same time. Obviously, we need natural rejuvenation in a lot of areas where we have forestry. It is important that we also take advantage of the possibility of using more sedentary wood species and of developing forestry in line with the biodiversity that has developed in forestry. I am also concerned about stressing what the Riksrevision said: that the agricultural administration does not spend much time following environmental requirements and certifications. There is a great deal of self-control and private-law certification in this area, and it is a challenge for the entire agricultural administration and for the Minister of Agriculture – which I hope he will respond to. There's a lot of good that's done in forestry, but not everything. It is part of the logging that is not done in an environmentally sustainable way, and part of the environmentally hostile subsidisation we have in today's system should be phased out. In that context, I have a question to the Council of State, which I hope he can answer. Already in 2007 it was promised that a roll-out message would be made to look at the legislation related to forest roads. This is what we have been waiting for in 2007, in 2008, in 2009, in 2010 — it has been repeated several times — also in 2011 and 2012. I'm excited if the Council of State might now be able to explain when the big message that's going to review that code, and that was promised us that long ago, comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e435	I would first like to thank the National Audit Office for a thorough review of the forestry policy. The Committee's position and the various contributions point to the key findings of the National Audit Office's review, first and foremost the need for good availability of forest resources and the importance of good infrastructure. Infrastructure measures are one of the main instruments to influence the level of crop yield. I fully agree with the Committee that this is an area in which we need special attention in the future. I will normally come back to the Stortinget with an overview of developments in this area in the annual budget proposals. For some years, forest performance controls have shown too low rejuvenation efforts after peak. The current Minister of Agriculture and Food Lars Peder Breck sent a letter in 2010 to municipalities and county councils asking for more control of the rejuvenation obligation. These measures have been necessary and have a positive impact on the activity in this area. I want a lot of attention to be paid to the evolution of forest rejuvenation in the future. I believe that the National Audit Office’s investigations confirm that the measures implemented in 2010 and beyond have been necessary. The exploitation of forest resources is important. The forest shall be left in good condition for future generations, provide a basis for business activities, and contribute to achieving the objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions through the capture of CO2 from the atmosphere by the forest and the carbon stocking of the forest. The Committee points out that forest owners need to be better informed about the instruments of forest policy. The National Audit Office has pointed out that municipalities should use more resources for information and guidance to forest owners. To this end, I would like to point out that there is considerable information on the measures taken in forestry, not least from the State's agricultural administration, the agricultural departments of the counties and municipalities throughout the country. There will always, in most contexts, be a need for more information. However, it has to be aligned with the resources available. But I notice, of course, the attitude that is being expressed. I would also like to point out that it is natural that the industry itself takes its own responsibility for information and guidance, as is the case in most areas of society. The Committee asks the Ministry to consider whether the form of grants and financing by forest funds can be sent out according to the same pattern as for production grants in agriculture. There are relatively large differences between agricultural production subsidies and forest grants and forest fund financing, because the production grant is a state subsidy, while forest funds follow the forest property’s money. However, in line with the Committee's comment, I would like to see to it that the State's agricultural management continues to work to simplify and streamline the forestry fund system. I will end by stressing that I am going to use and benefit from the National Audit Office's investigation into the development of a forward-looking forest policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e454	It's almost like thanking the National Audit Office for an opportunity to discuss forestry. In terms of sustainability, in relation to the previous case, we have the diametrical opposite. Here we have an industry that has built up a significant resource potential. We have a very low resource use, we have very low investments, and the targets are not being met. It should actually stop the Storting, because it is a very important challenge – especially when we see it in the context of the United Nations look-up last week that shows that growth in Norway is now on its way to culminate – growth is about to stop. It is quite dramatic in terms of the potential for industry and the potential of forestry, but it is also quite dramatic in climate terms. I think it's getting too little focus on in Stortinget. If we look at nutrition, the situation is that in Norwegian forestry now it is approx. Twenty-five million. m3 growth, with only 10–11 million. m3 exploited. The industry itself is talking about having a target of 15 million. m3. This means that in many ways more than one third of Norwegian forestry is protected by the fact that the forest is not managed. I think some people should notice that. Today's crop yields a turnover in forestry as a primary industry of approx. 6 B.C.E. kr, but it gives a value for the total chain. Forestry and forestry are almost a perfect Norwegian food chain. It has a Norwegian resource, it uses mainly Norwegian inputs, and it sells in an international market. In this way, it suffers from the fact that the oil industry is about to distort all other activities in Norway — without any particular characteristics of the forest industry. However, it provides a huge value creation out there – 25 000 jobs scattered around the country – and increasing activity at the basic level here, which is forestry, to, for example, Fifteen million. m3, which the industry itself has as its objective, would provide enormous opportunities for jobs and for strengthening District Norway. There is far too little attention in the national Parliament. Then we have climate context. Forests in climate context require active management, and here it is the very bond that is interesting. With a forestry that the nation's headlines show that we're getting closer, where the growth is going down and we've built up 900 million. km3 of timber standing there and about to start rotting, forestry will no longer do the job it is doing today. Today, Norwegian forestry is binding up to 50 pst. of Norway’s emissions, and this is done over approx. 30 pst. of our area. I think this is a discussion that should be taken seriously also in terms of biodiversity. There are a huge number of species that depend on active forestry. It's not that biodiversity just serves to protect or not drive the areas. There has to be a balance here. We also need to get the perspective that biodiversity is actually served by active and varied forestry. The same thing is true of recreation. If you think of the land without roads – what asset would Oslomarka have been to most people if you hadn't had forest roads? In this way, I would like to thank the National Audit Office for having an opportunity to keep an article that only goes on forestry. For the most part, forestry tends to drown in agriculture, and then there are subsidies that we fight about, and that's not very interesting for forestry. One wants to develop a profitable industry that is competitive in the big world. Of course, we can check and review and make sure that we have public follow-up of most things, but I believe, as the rapporteur pointed out, that in forestry, freedom has actually worked well under responsibility. The industry was early off focusing on the environment precisely because the market demanded it – a good example of action being launched long before public bureaucrats have perceived it as a problem. The pressure came from the market. It's definitely going to continue as well. What I wanted to put the search light on is that it is actually a resource that, among other things. The EU is talking about what will bring us into a truly sustainable society. All oil can be used for, in principle, forest can be used for, but it requires a lot of research today, and it's quite expensive to get it done. But there's a perspective there. If we're really talking about Norway in a climate context, that we're going to approach the climate-neutral society, then the biological resource, which Lundtegen was also involved in. What's based on photosynthesis is actually what can bring us into a truly climate-neutral and sustainable society. It is to a very great extent ignored in the debate in Stortinget. Then I'll get to a little bit of the point. Active management requires active owners, and then we have a huge challenge, it shows the National Audit Office's report. Because today we are sitting with a structure that is largely determined from the time it was interesting for the owner himself to take the horse, go out and drive a dough that was 5 km long and 20 meters wide. It's not very well adapted to today's forestry, with machines that cut the amount he did in a year, in half a day. We have 120 000-130,000 owners. The statistics show very clearly that active owners with larger properties are much more active on all the criteria drawn up here. I am not saying that small owners cannot be active, but they drown in all those who do not even know where the property is. It also has to be the Storting to start a discussion on. It does not help to send information to forest owners who do not know where the property is or who do not know they have it. In fact, I think we have to be so honest and say that an average property in Norway today does not mean anything economically compared to a normal job. It is a reality. It wasn't like that 40-50 years ago, when the structure was determined. Today, an average property means almost nothing to the owner other than that it is a nice place to recruit for those who are really interested in it, and there is a small savings box in case of bad times – then you can go out and moan a little. So I actually think we have to get down to being honest in that particular discussion. The industry itself – it stood in the same nation, where it said that you were going down in growth – asked for three things. One was that the Stortinget addressed the property structure issue – there has been repeated consultation. The second was infrastructure measures — nor is it a problem for Stortingen to agree that we have a challenge there. The third was research and development efforts, which in themselves were also linked to Lundtägen. These are policies in bet areas that are in the middle of the story of what the Storting is largely discussing, except for property structure, which is sacred and is not being discussed at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e492	I think it's been a very good debate so far, and I have to admit that I was inspired by the representative Lundteg, who was based on previous forest extraction. That I think is important to point out, because some of the things that are positive in this report are that we are coming back to a greater degree of rejuvenation than it might have been in those years of rejuvenation was the least. In the extension of what Lundtigen said, wise people in the 1930s, 1940s, and not least in the 1950s, in a situation where Norway was not in the economic situation we are now, nevertheless took advantage of the long-term investment it is to put a plant on the ground to come back decades after and collect that capital. Just in that perspective, I think it would be very dramatic if our generation were to be the one who, while pumping the disposable oil and gas resource, could not afford to maintain the renewable resource that the forest is. Just as little as the 60, 70 and 80 years ago invested in the forest knew what the tree would be used for when it was to be mowed today, not least in what way it would be mowed, just as little do we know about the application in 70 or 80 years. But we know that we have a renewable resource that there's going to be demand. That is why this matter is so important, and therefore I am very pleased that it is underlined by the National Audit Office and the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs that infrastructure measures are one of the things that need to be in place if we are to achieve the objective of increased logging. As regards the desire for increased harvesting, it is clear that there is biological space for it. It will be industry policy and industrially very good if we are able to increase the yield. But the harvest is not only dependent on decisions or measures from the government, it is a price element here. It is clear that it is interesting to take out a tree – usually consisting of both cut and cut – it is not least important to know what kind of application the less valuable parts of the tree may have in order to have an economy that stimulates logging in the future. For it must also be in place, not just the attitude and ambition of it. Therefore, I believe that what is now being experimentally developed in the use of wood fibre other than what has been common up to now may become very important in order to create a better economic basis for large volumes to be taken out of forestry in the future. Let me end by stressing what's going on about climate, natural diversity, yes, at all that man is actually going to be an active, participating user of nature and not an outside observer, that the normal thing is that the forest is in use, that we are harvesting from it. It has become even more not only acceptable, but positive by knowing that the forest has the significant role of binding CO2, which we already learned about in high school through photosynthesis, but for which it has been a bit politically difficult to accept. But it's gradually accepted as a very important contributor to keeping and improving the CO2 balance. Discussions often arise that may be difficult, for example: environmental questions may be asked in any of the infrastructure. But the infrastructure is necessary to have an active forestry. In this way, it contributes to the climate in its own way. At the same time, we have the question of natural diversity and species diversity. It can sometimes be a confusing debate. I belong to those who believe that one should protect what is unique and threatened. Then it's right to protect. I don't belong to those who think it's right to have an ambition about how much percent to protect. I don't think we're going to protect percentages, we're going to protect nature, and we're going to protect diversity. On the other hand, sometimes when we talk about forest protection, and sometimes necessary forest protection – where voluntary forest protection is going very well that now contributes to ensuring diversity in many places in the country – it is not necessarily so that the protection and consideration of biodiversity is a climate action. On the contrary, it is that the forest is being used, that the tree gets hogd when it is highly mature, and that then a new plant is being set that helps us increase the CO2 bond. For those of us who are concerned with nature, it is important to distinguish the need for natural diversity from the important debate on CO2 capture, and to be clear that forest protection is not necessarily a CO2 measure, it can sometimes be a necessary measure for natural diversity. I think it has been a very good debate that points forward in view of an understanding that we have a management responsibility to make sure that those who come 60, 70 and 80 years after us have a resource available that is sustainable and that can be used for the value creation of that time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e527	I want to start by thanking the President for his long-term perspective, which is absolutely correct and important, and I am very happy that it is being carried out from here. When I take the word again, it's to some points that I want to underline. In order to obtain the necessary production and binding of carbon dioxide, the rejuvenation of forests is incredibly important, and as part of the rejuvenation, the number of three per dean is very important professionally. The National Audit Office points out that the number of three now considered necessary by the Ministry of Agriculture is far too small to be followed up. It is also possible to discuss whether the three numbers that the Ministry of Agriculture is cautiously suggesting are simply too low. My assessment is that the number of threes should be higher, higher than 130 to 150 plants on good soil, in order to produce both volume and quality. If the number of threes is too small on good soil, the growth will become too large and thus there will be too much twig and too poor quality. But it is clear that a larger number of threes means that there is a greater need for human activity — thinning and cleaning requires more follow-up — and it is also such that the larger the number of threes is, the less can one possibly ensure other considerations in those areas, because it becomes less attractive, among other things. outdoor when wood production is so high. It is a central question that I expect the Ministry of Agriculture to go further on a professional basis, because it is extremely important. So a little comment to the representative Gundersen, who is the Right's leading agricultural debater in this room – he should have. What's the representative's very focus this time, as before, is property relationships. There is nothing new that is being brought forward from the Right now, it has been carried out from the Right from the time we established the Forestry Association of 1950, the so-called S-50, where in the forestry industry there was a different focus between the few large-scale forests and the many farm-based forests – the many farm-based forests represented by the Norwegian Forest Association, and the few industrial and descendants of the major economic interests in Norway, to put it diplomatically, which organized themselves in S-50. I would like to say that there are many ways of strengthening the weaknesses of the ownership of many people, without the state entering actively and changing property rights in Norway. The most important thing is the operational community, ensuring operational communities between the many. From the early 1960s on, the task and core activities of the Norwegian Forest Association have been to compensate for the weaknesses of the property rights of the many, while retaining the property rights of the many, and a work to enable the many who are entitled to their property and to their forest, and thus to have many who understand the whole of it. What has been said about infrastructure is absolutely crucial. It's a difficult thing. There is a difficult case in Norwegian opinion today, for infrastructure is also shipping roads, roads on which one runs it. It is quite obvious that roads can be put on the ground to take greater account of other circumstances than what you have done in the past — and that is what is being done. But if one doesn't look at roads as a necessary part of it all, it's hard to get the carbon out of the plants that we're talking about here, in a way that's economically viable. So it's a necessity. A part of the environmental discussion related to forestry today is that the modes of operation are such that they provoke the public. And I understand that historically, because the new forest machines have such a size and create such a strain on the terrain that it becomes visible in a way that many people react to. As economic development is now, it is becoming so that forest machinery is going to be run almost 24 hours a day, year-round, and then everyone knows that the pressures on the environment and people are becoming too heavy. The reason for this development is that the economic framework conditions for the industry are such that they feel compelled to do so. It is not possible, for the load on the land, on the land and on the roads, that ex post costs are too high in relation to the one through a quick fix to be achieved in the present. Finally, focus on – what is the most important thing to try to stay together in the future? I hope not least that the Right Party can agree that what is most important to stand together in this matter is economic development. It is to add more money to the value chain through an overall strategy where the state has to interact with the industry in a more offensive way than what is happening now. What I want to get back to is the interaction with the state as we did in the 1960s and 1970s, with the great fighters Arnfinn Hofstad and Ivar Aavatsmark as a whole, the interaction between trade movement, forestry cooperation, long-term capitalists and the state. It's the most central one. We need to have such a development to convert the industry from paper to biorefinery, which can complement the oil refineries. We need to focus on renewable carbon, because the renewable carbon has a future, represented by the staging president, who is independent of time, essential, and it is not least a central part of the solution for the future climate problems. So we have to focus on what's really important. In the opinion of the Centre Party, strengthening the economic base is in the chain to make it attractive so that more people can use their knowledge and creativity in the industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e548	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e562	The National Audit Office presented to the Stortinget on 31 May last year its study on the development and renewal of the railway infrastructure, Document 3:13. The title of the National Audit Office’s presentation was ‘Increased appropriations, not better rail provision’. Riksrevisor Jørgen Kosmo said that both the Ministry of Transport and the Railway Agency needed better control over the planning, implementation and impact of railway measures. The background to this survey was that the technical state of the network was described as unsatisfactory in the National Transport Plan 2010-2019. The study showed that the main objectives for the development of the rail network on increased operational stability had not been achieved and that the railway works do not have an overview of the status of the implementation of the overall project portfolio, which in turn means that the department does not receive the necessary management information. The study also revealed that there was a lack of evidence of the effectiveness of investment measures and that many of the measures had been delayed and have become significantly more expensive than planned. Furthermore, the study shows that the lack of capacity and competence in railway technical subjects delays the work on improving the network. Last but not least, the report revealed that the railway works have inadequate procedures for following up suppliers in the market and that good productivity measurements are not available in the railway works. A total of eight questions were sent to the Ministry of Transport during the examination of the Control and Constitutional Committee, which was answered very late, and which are attached to the procedure. I am pleased that, on most points, the Committee is unanimous. Like the National Audit Office, the Committee points out that the railway works have a lack of overview of the implementation status of the project portfolio. The Ministry of Transport wrote in a letter to the National Audit Office on 23 March last year that this should be followed up, and that further improvements could be made to documentation and reporting on status and development. The same department rejects in its letter to the Committee dated 7 November the issue and claims that the Riksrevision conclusion that the Ministry does not receive sufficient management information is incorrect. What this reverse operation is all about, I don't know, but I look forward to hearing what the Council of State is justifying this. A unanimous committee also points out that efforts to demonstrate the effectiveness of the various investment measures need to be intensified. The main objective of the development of the network has been to improve the closure of train traffic, with reduced travel time and fewer delays and adjustments. Unfortunately, the study shows that key elements of this objective have not been achieved. Despite increased appropriations, the operational stability and the closure of train traffic have not improved during the period covered by the survey. A unanimous committee therefore requires that both the Ministry of Transport and the Railway Agency have better control over the planning, implementation and impact of the various measures. Despite the fact that the appropriations have been substantially as foreseen, approx. 70 pst. of the investment projects delayed, and approx. 60 pst. was completed later than planned. Not enough — more than half of the projects were also significantly more expensive than originally estimated. This testifies to both inadequate planning and cost control, and I expect the Department to take this on board and take the necessary steps to improve the situation. A unanimous committee also takes a very serious view in the vote that the railway works do not have satisfactory monitoring and control procedures for suppliers on the market and assumes that their work is a high priority. We also recommend, like the National Audit Office, that clear targets should be set for the impact of investments and that the Railway Agency should report on the impact of the measures taken. As mentioned earlier, lack of capacity in the railway sector has been one of the causes of delays and lack of start-up of projects, and the study shows that recruitment of this type of competence has been challenging. The Ministry acknowledges these challenges, but claims that training of new capacity takes time and that the growth of new staff intake needs to be adapted to the training capacity of the Railway Agency while all other tasks need to be resolved. I think this is too defensive and I am therefore pleased that a unanimous committee refers to the need to launch more measures to ensure competence and capacity. The National Audit Office’s report was submitted to the Ministry of Transport on 25 January 2012 and the Ministry, in a letter dated 16 February of the same year, made comments on the report. The Councils of State stated, inter alia, that: in its response that major appropriations for rail will provide a better rail service but that it will take time. As the Council of State considers, it is not realistic to expect that, in a few years' time, the rail offer will be significantly better even if the appropriations have increased significantly. So this claimed the Council of State. I think these statements are both eye-catching and defensive, and I had hoped for a much more offensive attitude from the government to resolve the problems we have almost daily with the closure of the train traffic. I see that the department has done a lot to improve the situation. This is good, but far from good enough. I hope that the Minister of Transport now takes the signals from both the Riksrevision and the Stortinget, and takes the necessary steps so that we can get the train traffic in order, and that we can deal with the problems that train passengers experience almost daily with delays and cancellations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e590	I thought the case spokesperson had a good review of the case, and I'm going to do a little bit of good because what we're actually a little bit confused about, or where we have a little different views. What we're talking about is that trains have one important main task: getting people and goods where they're going, when they're going to – get possible and usually possible. It applies particularly from the Austland to the West. When it doesn't happen, it's because it's given too little permissions. At the same time, railway policy is a tolerance exercise, as the results do not come until the project is complete. Even if the Railway Agency's budget increased by 75 pst, or 4.2 br. kr, from 2006 to 2012, we experienced bad point healing until 2009. This is due for many decades with undershoots to the railway. But when this government is making a historic effort, it didn't get any results in point management until 2012, that is, after the Riksrevision's investigations, as they put forward in this report, were completed. But then, in return, the measure of point play was exceeded. The members of the Committee from SV, the Centre Party and the Working Party expect the long-term re-prioritisation of funds from investment to maintenance to strengthen the operational stability of the Railway Agency to produce even more long-term results. Moreover, national audit reports are not always – even as thorough and then elaborated – something for impatient souls who are concerned with results and new measures. This report is thorough, but it covers a long time span. And much has happened – fortunately. The National Audit Office points out that the Railway Agency does not provide sufficient management information to the Ministry, because there is a lack of overview of the overall project portfolio. This is unsustainable. It is therefore positive that the Ministry writes in its letter to the Committee on 7 November 2012 that they have an overview of the status of all individual projects and have therefore also obtained sufficient management information. Of course it should be to have in place a good impact measurement of railway measures, so this is good. The same applies to good indicators – one must of course have – which can be used to measure productivity, i.e. if the measures are being implemented. Therefore, the Committee believes that the railway works' ongoing efforts to develop these must be prioritised. When a set of large investment projects, which one must when one wants to build a good railway, it is important that the projects are completed when they are going to, and that they cost what one would have thought they would cost. The National Audit Office points to several instances where this has not happened entirely. The Committee notes that the Ministry has taken several measures to improve the quality of the plan, and that is important. One of these is to ensure good professionals. For this reason, the government has set in motion a commitment to establishing railway vocational training provision in several engineering schools, as well as its own training effort. It will have an effect in the long term, but the Committee believes that this should be followed closely to ensure that we have the necessary skills at any given time. I first said that railway construction is for the patient. This government has now implemented measures through two NTPs — on a regular basis, keeping the plan. In Stortinget, we – all parties outside the Progress Party – have gathered on a climate settlement, and soon the National Transport Plan 2014-2023 will come. SV, the Workers' Party and the Centre expect that there will be measures that will provide even more positive long-term effects on the railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e613	The National Audit Office’s survey has revealed a wide range of alarming aspects of railway operations in Norway. Despite ever-increasing appropriations and many beautiful promises, this case has revealed that the state of the railways has not improved, and the list is alarmingly long. There are still more set settings and delays. The previous speeches referred to the route and plan for 2012, and I think that at least a relatively large number of commuters in the Eastern region will have problems with the reality description that was just given. Recently, the NSB had to crawl to the cross and admit people the repayment of paid tickets – due to lack of capacity and logistics. It is also the case that investment projects are being launched too late and are becoming more expensive than estimated. There is a small overview of ongoing and implemented projects, there is a lack of control over suppliers, the railway works still lack critical competence because they have increased capacity and work – so in four years it should be possible to see results. You haven't. It is still not clear when new rail signalling and securing systems, i.e. the new pan-European system, can and should be implemented – although, of course, I am aware that a test route should be implemented. It is therefore extremely serious to the right that the railway works are still operating inefficiently, without productivity measurements and with insufficient evidence of both maintenance and investment. Even significant budgetary increases have improved the operational stability and the closure of train traffic. This shows that the government's premature cancellation of the railway conversion process in 2005 was incorrect and completely irresponsible. The right-hand side expects a clear plan from the Council of State for the necessary conversions of the Railway Agency to bring the necessary improvements to the railway sector. The appropriations for railway actions increased by 68 pst in the period 2000-2010. At the same time, this has not improved the operational stability and the closure of traffic. It remains to be seen whether the traffic here in the eastern part of the country is experiencing the development envisaged by the 2012 Roadmap. This shows that structural intervention is needed in the sector, which has thus had major operating challenges during the last majority period – I think everyone will agree with that. The investment appropriations have mainly been as foreseen in the 2006-2015 transport plan. Despite this, it was about 70 pst. of the investment projects not started as planned and approximately 60 pst. the projects started were completed later than planned. A majority of these projects were also significantly more expensive, from 35 p.m. to 54 pst. more expensive than originally estimated. In 2002, the Bondevik II Government continued to operate on the Norwegian rail system. The NSB was converted into a separate AS, CargoNet, former NSB Gods, could for the first time face competition from other market players, passenger transport on the Gjøvik track was also subject to competition, and the results of these changes are good. The continuous development and improvement of the rail sector is essential to adapt the structure and service provision to society’s development and to changing requirements for efficiency, ease of use and service. In recent years there has been a relatively large cross-political majority in this Chamber to bet on a modernised and renewed rail system in Norway, in which case it is particularly important that the railway system is involved in this development and modernised. In 2008, the National Audit Office said that ‘the railway system is responsible for an ever-increasing share of the operational deviations in train traffic and that unexplained responsibilities make it unnecessarily difficult to avoid delays.’ The National Audit Board recommended clarifying the responsibilities so that a person can coordinate, target and implement actions to reduce delays. There have been no organisational changes since then. The development of railway infrastructure has not been able to meet developments in the last ten years and has not been able to meet the public’s capacity and service requirements today. I think that the press release of the last few days is also a clear example of that. Government enterprises do not always provide optimal services for users. There are several good examples of successful structural changes and subsequent sales in government enterprises. Both the modernisation of the Telecom, the Swedish Aviation Agency and Vegvesen are good examples of the necessary structural changes and the proper modernisation of the public sector. In order to ensure that users have sufficient railway services, it is necessary to transform the railway system. In order to maximise the ability of the Railway Agency to meet today’s – and not least tomorrow’s – requirement for a rail offer, the Right has proposed modernising the Railway Agency by transforming it into two companies, companies or limited liability companies. Unfortunately, this was voted down by the government three years ago. Unfortunately, the further railway history has shown us that the government's lack of better ideas and new solutions do the Railway Norway is a bear service. The right-wing believe that we must enable the railway to take its social responsibility in the best possible way. To achieve this, we need a strong and clear organisation that controls its assets, has control of its production, and is able to meet the requirements that tomorrow – and not least tomorrow’s customers – expect.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e636	The National Audit Office has many reasonable points in its report. But as the case-speaker pointed out, the report was dated 31 May. The questions asked by the case spokesperson on 17 October were answered on 7 November. The time horizon here has become very long. So much has happened in the process, as the Council of State points out in its letter to us of 7 November in the fall. But, as I said, it has our constructive input relating to the competence and capacity of railway technical subjects and improved levelling capacity and quality. That's a lot of good suggestions. As a professional committee member also on the Transport Committee, I myself have been quite excited about the Railway Agency many times for various reasons. But when a new director has now been appointed, I think we are quite clear – and it shows the letter from the Minister of Transport – is on the right track, contrary to what we now hear from the Right when it concerns the modernisation that Right wants, to which I will return. Some of the things I have criticized the Railway Agency for are, among other things, that they do not use any more international competence in their structure. We have the International Railway Union, which has a great deal of competence in this area and which, in my opinion, should have been used more. Then, of course, we have expansions in Europe, not least in Spain, where there is also a higher level of competence in the construction of high-speed railways, which should have been used in Norway. Then, in my opinion, one could have operated with completely different operations than those used by the Norwegian Railway Agency. If you look at the solutions that Norsk Bane and Deutsche Bahn have in their calculations and progress plans, you can see that the number is different, very different, than the number of the railway works. So there's still a job to do in that area. So I notice that the Right has a high cigarette lead in this case. That's interesting. As everyone here knows, the railways have been neglected for at least 40 years until 2005, at least until 2005. It admits all of the games. It is interesting when we have today a member of the Control Committee who was a finance minister for four years, in the Bondevik II administration, and who consistently fed the railways, as failure on the maintenance side, but not least on the investment side. Right-wing and impending Finance Minister and impending Transport Ministers from the Left suggested that the large amount of 1.3 billion should be allowed. kr for investments in the railways in 2005. In this year's budget, the fees are 6.2 billion. kr to the railway. We've done a reverse operation. I'm not saying he's good enough, but at least we've increased the clearance level, and we've put more emphasis on maintenance than you've seen from previous governments. Another point is that the Halleraker representative from the Right makes this a modernisation project. In the Bondevik II period, one tried to modernise the railway. It turned into horror and warning. It could be a disaster, as it was in New Zealand and in England. Modernisation resulted in rail stopping. The railroad was damaged. He was also part of the Bondevik II administration by trying to privatize the railway works. Suddenly, one stood there without the necessary signal skills to do the job of maintenance that was necessary for the train to leave. I don't like the cigar guide to the right here. After proposing a misguided policy for the period 2001–2005, they should think carefully if they are to try on the model that we in the Halleraker post believe Right will try, namely a privatisation solution that many countries, including England and New Zealand, are bombing. They have had to take it back to the state. In addition, what happened was that the Railway Agency was stripping for professionals. They got final packages from Per-Kristian Foss to get other jobs, thus reducing the professional skills needed to bet on the railways in Norway. But, of course, educational capacity is something you have to invest in, which is also pointed out by the National Audit Office in its report. But you have to ask yourself if you don't want to pick up more labour from outside in this important area. I understand that when it comes to supply and stuff, future expansions show up to a greater extent. It has taken too long to correct the damage done during the Bondevik II administration. I agree with that. It should've gone faster. We haven't managed to get enough professionals into the Railway Agency. The railway works themselves have done some stupid things, in my opinion. But now we're on the right track, and it shows the letter from Arnstad State Council to the committee. If you have to think a little high when it comes to conversion and modernisation, you should look at countries where the railway works best in the world, where you say that you can set the clock after the train, i.e. to Switzerland. If one thinks that the railway is important and most important, one has to go where he works – and there he seems. Who is driving the railway in Switzerland? It's the state that drives him. They haven't split it up like they did in Norway, so one has a state that wants to run the railway, and that wants to run an offensive railway policy, and one has organized it then, in state operations. So one of course has also created a finance model for the railway that I think Norway should also have had, where a take income from different items, among other things. from heavy road transport into a pot that ensures long-term development of the railway. We should have that in Norway too, and at least my party is working for now in the ongoing negotiations when it comes to the national transport plan. Finally, it is clear that some reason to bet on the railway is precisely that the railway is an important instrument to do enough with greenhouse gas emissions. It also points out in the climate agreement that one should bet more on rail in Norway. If we get more money on the railways, we will of course be less in need of roads, we will have fewer traffic accidents, and we will have less noise pollution – at all, we are going to bet a lot on the railways now, but we will have to bet even more in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e655	The case concerns the National Audit Office’s report on the development and renewal of the railway infrastructure – in good Norwegian what the Railway Agency is responsible for. The responsibility of the Railway Agency is known to any skilled worker in that company. It requires totality, and it requires long-termity. It requires those degrees of totality and long-termity. A small failure and a small detail lead to great delays and major problems. The report from the Riksrevision shows the need for a strong improvement. What everyone should notice is that it is a maritime critical department, a maritime critical joint committee that supports the need for strong improvements in the railway works. At the same time, it is important to realise that the real increase in money for the Railway Agency between 2000 and 2010 has been 3.9 billion. kr in 2010-krona or 68 pst. in real growth. There's a lot, but it's not more than twice the real income increase for the average Northman in the period, to put it a little bit in relief. It's about 30 pst. So here it's 68 pst. No one other than us representing the positioning parties thought it was possible to carry out a corresponding increase, and I think that the opposition should bring with it its opinions here today and beyond. What the government has done is to prioritise within this whole and the long term, an improvement in capacity and operational security, operational stability rather than a reduction in travel time through initial investments. That's a proper priority. I think everyone agrees on that, but the need in this area has been so enormous that it has swallowed far more resources than that at the beginning of the work, and in every year's work, has believed it was necessary. There are so many technical and human conditions that will work together in severe weather conditions, that here there is a dynamic organisation that really needs to change culture and change the access of resources to do the job. I think there are a few people who take over how demanding this is. But this is rail transport, this is the core of it, and this must be clear to all those responsible in the sector. The representative of Langeland was concerned with what was the starting point for this government, namely the lack of capacity and competence in railway engineering, which has delayed the work on improving the network. It's an important point from the Riksrevision, but it was a fact when today's government started. What has been a priority from the government, and which has the full support of the Center Party, is to arrange overhead lines, stations, level crossings, intersections and control systems, and, a theme that has been little front, fences along the railway line. Missing fences along the railway line have major hazards in themselves, both for humans and animals, and involve a great need for investment where one has not really started at all. What's most important here is to comment on what the representative Halleraker was about, the way forward. I think the representative Halleraker used very big words when he was going to try to cover the Right Road further, where the starting point was that it should have been possible to see the results of the bet. Anyone using the railway sees the results of this government's investment both with improvements in a number of individual areas and by the fact that the NSB, as an operator in one area, has gained significantly better material. There are things that happen that to those degrees are positive. Move on to the road. There are now clearly two clear alternatives: the government's way forward and the Right's way forward. Government rates the Railway Agency as an integral part of the state’s operation and does not see the need to reorganise the Railway Agency to companies, whether they be companies or limited liability companies. It is important that one here uses the Railway Agency as an active policy instrument to achieve policy objectives, which relate to population development, industrial development and, at all, climate conditions, which many people have experienced. Then it is important to have central political governance, while at the same time delivering its tasks in a better way than it has done in the past. There will be an important discussion in the future about the organisation of the railway system and the operation of the railway system. I am sure that the government will now follow up the National Audit Office's comments in such a way that we are seeing more and more good results from a strong commitment both economically and organisationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e674	The National Audit Office’s report is a strong reminder of the state of the rail sector in Norway. In ten years the appropriations for the railway have increased by 68 pst. Nevertheless, the punctuality declines, the stability and the closure of train traffic are deteriorating. There is no surprise that developments are going the wrong way. For commuters and all who depend on the train, the Riksrevisions report is bad news, but too many not very surprising. The National Audit Office points out weaknesses in the government’s management of the railway sector and this is very serious. The Norwegian railway is in a break-up time. A broad political majority will invest in the railways. That's good. More and more people see the need to rethink the financing and organisation of the railways. Today's organisation and funding regime, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, stands in the way of a comprehensive railway investment. The National Audit Service demonstrates a deterioration in the train offer from 2006 to 2011. 70 pst. investment projects are not initiated as planned, there are delays in their development and projects are becoming more expensive than planned. The Christian People's Party believes that the governance structure needs to be changed. The government's resistance to renewal is hard on the railway. The time is ripe to reorganise the Railway Agency, and we need better control and longer-term funding. As it is today, we feel that plans need to be dropped and projects need to be changed because of political unforeseeableness. Projects will stop and new projects will be added. The projects listed in the National Transport Plan are only implemented on the road for a while. For years, industry has been asking for modern freight terminals and crossing tracks to facilitate the transfer of more freight from road to rail. Today, most terminals are still on the drawing board, only a few crossing tracks are built, and changing economic frameworks create little predictability. This affects travellers, suppliers charge extra costs, society incurs unnecessary costs, and rail reputation is weakened. Everybody's losing on this. The Christian People's Party will make use of the tools to enable rail to play an important role in a modern and environmentally friendly transport system. Predictability and coherent development are key words. In the last decades, one continuous route has been built in Norway, and that's the Gardermoban. The construction took place here through a limited liability company and with clear objectives for completion. If we are to build an efficient, rational and customer-friendly intercity network across the East, we have to think something in the same paths. The funding must be clarified when the project is adopted. Long-term and predictable funding ensures overall governance of targets and results. Detailed budgetary management ensures that the use of money is limited but does not give any boost to the railway system as an organisation or to the railway system as a future means of transport. The Christian People's Party has proposed that the Railway Agency be transformed into an enterprise. It will provide the organisation with the freedom necessary to plan long-term and rationally. At the same time, the Railway Agency will be given a clearer responsibility and may act more on behalf of the railway towards the outside world. The National Audit Service's report has to be a wake-up call. It must be taken with the greatest seriousness. We cannot live with the weaknesses we see, and not least I hope that the government will take seriously the criticism that is being raised, related to weaknesses in government governance and in the railway sector. There's got to be improvements here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e695	Initially, I would like to point out that the National Audit Office's investigation was conducted in a good dialogue between the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Transport and the Railway Agency. The purpose of the study, as previously referred to, has been to assess whether the development and renewal of railway infrastructure during the audit period, i.e. 2000-2011, has contributed to the achievement of the main objectives set. A number of important aspects are highlighted in the report and there is also a good basis for learning both for the subject matter and for the interaction between the entity and the owner in the report submitted. In the course of the examination of the report of the National Audit Office, the Ministry of Transport issued an opinion and answered questions from the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in a letter dated 7 November 2012, which was included in the vote as a printed annex. In my further article, I would like to comment on the most central issues raised by the Committee in its position. The first issue concerns the governance dialogue between the owner and the department. In order to ensure responsibility for the implementation of the investment portfolio and to document targeted effects, the Ministry of Transport relies on the establishment of a good governance dialogue with the Railway Agency. The formal framework for that governance dialogue is good. A reporting system is established based on requirements resulting from the Appropriations Regulation and the EGTC and followed up by the annual letters of allocation from the Ministry of Transport of the Railway Agency. In addition, there are reports related to the planning and budgetary work of the Ministry. How to report and the content of the reporting is regularly discussed between the Department and the Railway Agency. However, it is clear that the need for frameworks is in place, there is always room for improvement in the governance dialogue, and it will also be the Ministry's concern in the future. Compared to the Storting, annual budget proposals provide information on state assessments and main challenges together with a performance report on what has been achieved in the previous year. As far as evidence of effects is concerned, it is an important topic. However, it is also important in that context to establish the interaction between infrastructure investment projects and transport services as such in the railway area today. The overall impact of infrastructure projects is often difficult to measure before a new train offer is established. A good example of this is the construction of a new double track between Lysaker and Asker in the West Corridor, which took place throughout the 2000–2010 investigation period and was completed in 2011. This development took place gradually, in stages, but the entire impact of that project can be difficult to take out before all ongoing work on the construction of new rerouting and reversing tracks has been completed and before the full implementation of the new base route model for the Eastern region in 2014. The main challenge for the railway in the period 2006-2010 was the poor standard on the rail network – a situation that has accumulated over many decades. This resulted in increasingly poor punctuality and regularity of train traffic. It peaked in 2008 and 2009 when train traffic at Oslo S had to be stopped more and more frequently due to disruption of operation in the Oslo tunnel, which was reportedly causing great dissatisfaction among the train passengers. That was the background for the government's decision to start up the Oslo project, which includes a total renewal of the old railway infrastructure around Oslo. The result of this work, together with a significant commitment to operation and maintenance throughout the period 2010–2013, has now begun to produce positive results. Average punctuality figures for all passenger trains in 2012 show that 91.2 pst. of the trains were on route, while the target standard – the objective – was 90 pst. For the Fly train was the target 95 pst., and there was the punctuality in 2012 at 95.8 pst. For comparison, the corresponding results in 2009 were 86,6 pst, respectively. for all passenger trains and 94,3 pst. for the flight train. It really shows quite well that it has been quite important to deploy the resources that were made during that period, in order to try to maintain and renew that infrastructure — especially linked to the Oslo area. In general, it is also an important rail-related issue, and it is a matter to which the government will come closer in the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023. In the report, the Riksrevision points out that approx. 70 pst. investment projects were not initiated as planned. And about 60 pst. was completed later than planned. A majority of projects were also significantly more expensive than originally estimated. It's a very unfortunate relationship. But I also believe in judging that it is important to point out some aspects of the questions that matter to that very thing. During the 2006-2009 planning period, a number of smaller projects were included in the Railway Agency’s action programme. The action programme is defined after the Storting has dealt with each national transport plan. The Railway Agency’s 2006-2009 action programme included a number of smaller projects, several of which were delayed. The main single reason for this was that during the planning period it was necessary to re-prioritiesise resources related to operation and maintenance in order to improve the operational stability of train traffic around Oslo. It in turn contributed to reduced progress on some of the smaller projects. Another important factor was the lack of the necessary expertise in key railway technical disciplines, which is necessary for the proper planning of all projects within the action programme. The problem was, and is still, that important parts of the special competence needed by the Railway Agency are difficult to reach outside the building. To meet the challenges, the Railway Agency has developed a new rail competence strategy in the various disciplines. Key elements of the strategy are the transition from the old to the new and standardised technical solutions for signalling systems. In addition, the Railway Agency is actively working to streamline its own training in railway matters, has also contributed to the establishment of a rail-professional training offer at NTNU in Trondheim and has also significantly increased the intake of apprentices. Another important aspect that the Riksrevision points to is that projects have proved to be more expensive than originally planned. In this area, there is no doubt that there is a need to improve the quality of the cost calculations provided by the Railway Agency. In particular, cost estimates are provided at an early stage of planning. The Ministry of Transport has taken this up with the Railway Agency and has pointed out the need to improve the quality of cost calculations submitted in order to obtain a realistic picture of the cost of the different stages of the planning until a project is taken up for allocation in Stortinget. As part of efforts to improve this area, the Ministry of Transport has also assessed measures to reduce the long planning period from a project to a priority in the NTP until the adoption and start of development. On its side, the Railway Agency has put in place several measures to improve the quality of its work on the cost base at the early stage of planning. In the context of the implementation of the projects themselves, the National Audit Office has revealed that the Railway Agency has had insufficient follow-up procedures for contractors in different projects. In particular, it concerns social dumping vis-à-vis subcontractors. The railway works have taken hold of it and have established new procedures and controls for the follow-up of the rules in this area. Finally, I would also like to point out the Committee's comments on the development of good indicators for the use of productivity measurement in the railway works' activities. I agree that it is important that the Railway Agency can demonstrate that allocated resources are used in the most cost-effective way possible. In order to move forward in this work, the Railway Agency has implemented an internal project to improve the financial management and accounting quality of the department. The project shows that in several areas a better system of measurement of productivity is required both in the core activity and in the support functions. Cost-effectiveness requirements are important work both in the Railway Agency and in the State Road Administration, on which the Ministry of Transport will focus in the future. How it will be followed up more specifically, I will also come back to in the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. For the government, it is important that realistic cost estimates are used as a basis for railway investments. Greater emphasis shall also be placed on risk management and clear performance targets shall be set for work. The government considers the National Audit Office's report in this area important. Railways are facing major investments and far larger projects in the years ahead than in the past. In this context, cost management and good project implementation will be crucial. The National Audit Office’s report has already contributed to improvements and must also provide a basis for further improvements in the future. For the sake of order, I would also like to mention in connection with the fact that the representative, Mr Halleraker, came back to the question of delays and problems related to today's train offer, that what we have seen in the last few weeks is not, in itself, a matter of railway infrastructure, but it is a matter of the transport offer and the role of the carrier. It's an important topic, and it's an important challenge. There are also transitional problems associated with a new base route that the carrier must take very seriously. However, it is not directly related to the railway infrastructure that has been addressed in today's report.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e727	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e730	I noticed with interest the Council of State's briefing on improvements in the governance dialogue and reporting, and I hope the National Audit Service has noticed the same thing, given the further follow-up to the department. The government has stated several times a goal of transferring more passengers to public transport, and the train has to play a central role in that objective. Does the Council of State really think that the recurring problems of delays, settings and railway stations that need to be closed for a short or longer time make it more attractive and tempting for travellers to use trains?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e737	I see it as an important and absolutely necessary goal to get more people on public travel, especially around the big cities. There is a role for the railway, along with buses, trams and other collective means of transport. I agree that there have been challenges related to the rail offer. All of them are not about railway infrastructure, which I tried to say at the end of my post, it's also about phase-in of a new base route and about the train offer. That might be the biggest challenge right now. I think some people feel that there is too little capacity on the train sets, among other things. In this context, new trains for over 4 billion will now be purchased. kr. We have given state guarantees for 16 new trains as late as December. Delivery will start during the spring, and it will also contribute to an improvement in the ability of the carrier to catch sufficient train passengers and to provide them with a good enough offer on the train.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e745	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e748	Care should be taken to underestimate the complexity of the tasks assigned to the Railway Agency, but not to complicate the parts of the work that are relatively straightforward in nature. I note in the report from the National Audit Office that despite the fact that the Ministry and the Railway Agency have set up a system for the management of targets and results, it is not possible to report the status of investment projects. This is when basic progress planning — good, traditional progress planning — is not working well enough. One question that needs to be asked is whether the Railway Agency and the Ministry in total have set up too many objectives, so that their objectives are lost. Another question may be: Has the Railway Agency in its own establishment set up too many internal targets that are unclear, which are not suitable for measuring the floor on which the station is actually to be measured? I have a question for the Minister: will the Minister take some initiative in a critical review of the implementation test, implementation test, from the Department of the Railway Agency to see whether the measurement indicators and the indicators with which they operate are actually suitable for bringing the stage forward, so that there is a clear cause-effect context in the measurement system under consideration? A report that was submitted some time ago has pointed out that there could be a general failure in the state of that system. The deviation from the cost estimate of the projects from being submitted to the Stortinget to final food is alarmingly high. It's particularly high compared to some other state agencies. This suggests that the quality of the uncertainty analysis is not good enough, and that analysis sets an expected final cost to the best of its ability. Then it becomes too simple – it should be said that it did not happen to the minister, but it says in the papers – to owe it to the market. This touch with what the market will somehow pay at any time should be better than it is today, when you bombed with 50 pst. You can never hit 100 pst. At an early stage, but to bomb as far as dramatic should be unnecessary. In the end, I could imagine asking the Minister to give his or her thoughts whether she – at least in her quiet mind – may have reflected around alternative ways of organizing this department, in the light of the many symptoms of a struggling establishment, in the report presented by the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e761	I was in my post saying that I believe there are opportunities in the future to be concerned about improvements in the management dialogue. It was mentioned two conditions here that I think it is natural for any owner to be concerned about. One is whether there is the right number of targets – whether there are too few or too many – and whether there are also target conflicts that one here has to go through. Similarly, it is clear that the deviations relative to cost results are also things that it must be natural to take into account in the further dialogue between the owner and the department. I probably don't have the habit of speaking from the Greatness Chair what I think in my quiet mind. So to the representative's last question, I'd rather say that I think it's possible to make many improvements even within today's organisation, and I tried in my post to show some of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e768	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e782	The size will now address Document 3:15 for 2011–2012, the National Audit Office’s survey on municipal child protection and the use of state instruments. The main message of the report is that municipal child protection needs to be strengthened professionally in order to provide children with good help. This view shares the view of the Committee. The report shows that care messages are misplaced, and it takes time for children to get help. It also appears that these measures can take a long time without the fact that the child protection services assess their actual functioning. There is clearly a need for the strengthening of child protection services, so that children are provided with timely assistance, and that assistance actually works as intended. There is an overall committee which is concerned that the report shows that many concerns are misrepresented. There is a clear need for better research and more information to be collected before the messages are deposited. In 2011, an average of 17 psts took place. of the studies for a long time. However, there are considerable differences. Some municipalities comply with the terms of the Child Protection Act in all cases, while other municipalities break the deadline in a majority of cases. It must be possible to assume that a special focus is placed on the latter municipalities. It also appears that many studies are carried out without the child protection service having spoken to the child or having been on home visits. Obviously, there may be reason to ask questions about the quality of such proceedings. The foreground and right parts refer to this in the notes as ‘a serious system failure’. The National Audit Office's report also highlights other weaknesses, including: that, in many cases, action may be taken for a long time without the protection of children having assessed the effective functioning of the measure. In order to ensure the good quality of the work of child protection services, there is a need to improve procedures and working processes, in the light of an overall committee’s assessment. In addition, it is necessary to strengthen professional environments and to increase the competence of management and internal control in municipalities. The National Audit Office’s assessment is that the Ministry has not sufficiently explained when it can be expected that the actions taken will contribute to improved achievement of the objectives and that a more committed timetable for the necessary improvements is important. Child protection – at all levels – is a repetition of the National Audit Office’s reports. The Committee considers that there is every reason why the Ministry should pay greater attention to the sector and provide for the timing of when significant improvements can be expected in this very important field. The majority of the Committee – the members of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – believes that much more needs to be done to meet the challenges pointed out by the National Audit Office. There is a broad political consensus that there is a need for better child protection. Nevertheless, – in our view – too little is done to remedy a failing child protection system. We cannot accept that defects and defects in child protection cause children to suffer or suffer from care failure. In our remarks, the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, among others. refer to a Fafo report showing that municipal and state child protection has major cooperation problems, and that the Bufetat, Children’s, Youth and Family Status are developing into a bureaucratic and resource-intensive organisation that does not contribute well enough to providing the most vulnerable children with the assistance they should and need. We have noticed that government parties in their comments are promoting kindergartens as a measure to improve child protection. Of course, full child care is important, but we see it as a thin justification for not doing more to help children who need it. As will be seen from the setting, the government parties have some specific comments. I would assume that representatives of these parties will explain these. I would also like to mention that the Left has some particular comments, and in a brief comment they are also with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e821	The National Audit Office, as underlined by the Advocate General, has carried out an investigation to find out whether children in need receive the necessary assistance and care from child protection within a reasonable period of time. In the main findings of the National Audit Office, there are many children who should have had the help of child protection, but who are not caught early enough. The National Audit Office also considers that more assistance to municipalities is necessary to strengthen the leadership competence of the Child Welfare Service. I don't think there are any child protection issues that have made such an impression as the so-called Christoffer case. I remember that it hit me so that it hurt physically. Think alone that boy was. No one understood anything, or rather; all closed eyes and ears. It included both the school and other authorities. It is a political responsibility to ensure that no children in Norway suffer from such disorders. It is not just municipal child protection and state instruments that are important here. Police, health services, schools, kindergartens, etc. has a responsibility, and let me say to the case rapporteur: yes, kindergartens are actually very important. At an early stage, kindergartens can discover what schools may discover later, and it may be too late. The kindergartens, schools and health services also have a duty to provide information and to eliminate them. But so do we. We can never accept abuse and violence against children, and we shall never – as neighbors, relatives, or friends – close our eyes and keep silent. I have heard many – including in the Child Welfare Service – say that the main problem is that children do not get help quickly enough. In addition, the National Audit Office’s study also shows that many concerns have been misjudged. The notifications should have been followed up by an investigation. In any case, the Child Protection Service should have obtained more information from the notifying party before the case was closed. I think we can agree on that. A unanimous committee considers that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, in the light of the report, should consider how to strengthen the work of municipal child protection services, in order to provide timely assistance to children, and that assistance actually works as intended. The study in the Riksrevisions report covers the period 2007 to 2011. I will show that the Council of State in its letter to the Riksrevision refers to her having noticed an improvement, and that she expects a further improvement in 2012, among others. as a result of the escalation of the government. The government is also in the middle of an escalation of municipal child protection, with the earmarked grant scheme. In 2013, there is an additional 205 million. kr for municipal child protection. I am also aware that our government will present a proposition in which several of the things mentioned in the Riksrevision report are addressed. It's important, and it's necessary. I also point out that the National Audit Office calls for the Ministry to consider making clear demands on the work of the Child Protection Service to design action plans and to evaluate relief measures. This is in agreement with the Committee. The Committee has taken note of the recommendation of the National Audit Board to strengthen the Directorate for Children, Youth and Family as a specialised directorate. It is interesting that the Council of State will assess the benefits, but also the disadvantages, of giving the Directorate an expanded role, and that she may come back to this in budgetary terms. Bufetate is too much in a conversion process. I also think it is important that the Ministry will assess whether there is a need for changes in responsibility for tasks and funding between the State and the municipality. This is something that should be considered as part of the announced proposition now in spring. The importance of child protection skills can almost not be fully emphasised. This also applies to the documentation requirements of the Child Protection Act and to the clarification of procedural systems and the revision of the Round Table of Procedure in the Child Protection Service. Let me again underline the responsibility of more bodies than child protection in the event of abuse and violence against children. Schools and kindergartens, as I stressed, have a duty to inform and suppress, and the police will have a crucial role in some contexts. The most positive thing that has actually happened in recent years is the creation of children's houses or children's houses, if you like. Because here the child can come to one place. It does not have to go from police to child protection to healthcare and walk from place to place. Here the children can be one place, while the help services from several agencies — health care, doctors, police, child protection, etc. - Come to the baby. Here, the Ministry of Justice and the Government have done an exemplary job for which I would like to thank them. This was also done in close cooperation with representatives from Stortinget. I would also like to point out, as the government fraction underlines in the setting, that a number of laws have been adopted and implemented to strengthen the child perspective and improve supervision during association. Nevertheless – this is an area where we have to follow closely with all the time. It is a political responsibility to deal with neglect and abuse of children, to prevent violence and abuse, to prevent understimulation and to encourage everyone to resign from the slightest suspicion. Children are good at hiding their wounds. The wounds are associated with shame, and parental loyalty is strong. Finally, child protection is a repetition of the National Audit Office’s reports. This is also why we need to pay more attention to this sector. Because we're not going to have any more Christoffer stuff.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e861	The National Audit Office's report shows that there is a great potential for improvement in municipal child protection. Concern messages are misconfigured. It takes time for the children to get help. In 2011, an average of 17 psts took place. the studies are carried out for a long time and many studies are carried out without the child protection service having spoken to the child or being on home visits. In many cases, measures may be taken for a long time without the child protection service having assessed the proper functioning of the measures. It's serious when it's shown that children don't get help at the right time, and that we don't know if the help actually works according to purpose. The National Audit Office’s assessment is that the Ministry’s response to the National Audit Office has not sufficiently explained when it can be expected that these measures will contribute to improved achievement of the objectives. The National Audit Office considers it important to have a more committed timetable for the necessary improvements. We also demand in the setting a timing of when we can expect significant improvements in this field. In this context, I would like to remind you that the Christian People's Party has put forward proposals in Stortinget on a stepping-up plan for full child protection by 2017, that is. a plan to ensure sufficient capacity at all stages – a binding economic escalation plan with clear operational objectives and a clear deadline. The proposal did not receive support from the majority of the population and was thus downgraded, but the Christian People's Party does not give up the fight for this, even if we have gone on a defeat once. Government parties refer to increases in child protection. Total gross operating expenditure of municipal child protection increased by over 1 billion. kr from 2010 to 2011. The government has transferred more funds to municipal child protection through the earmarked grant scheme. That's very good, and I'll underline that. But I also want to say that it's important to ask why we're still talking about more funding for child protection. We have to ask ourselves why the need is growing so much. I think this shows that we need a broader discussion about social development. We have to ask ourselves if we are on the right track when more and more children and families need help. Shouldn't it then call any alarm clocks? Should we not really focus on why these children and families need help, and how can we avoid that they end up in a situation where child protection measures are necessary? Should we not talk about prevention, the crucial role of family protection, the fight against drug abuse and the upgrading of psychiatry? Shouldn't we talk about prevention? Yes, we need to make sure that child protection sees and meets all the children and families who are struggling, but even more importantly, we are doing what we can to prevent children and families from falling into a difficult situation. We have to provide good and safe families. We need to facilitate safe and good growth conditions. This might sound like something that's getting closer to a party speech, and I'm going to try to avoid that, but I think we're here at the very core of the challenges. The Ministry is undertaking extensive work in this area. The 2004 reform has been evaluated, and the report summarising the four evaluation reports states that there is a need for a wide-ranging discussion on the functioning of the entire child protection service. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to the Stortinget getting – hopefully – an in-depth and comprehensive case of the entire child protection field for treatment now in ours. Of course, we also have expectations that the government will take the Riks audit report seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e874	This national audit report deals with one of the really important areas we can discuss in this Chamber. Norway was probably the first country in the world to have public child protection. Still, there's a child's protection where we've had terrible revelations since they started. There is also a high pressure on child protection when it comes to increasing cases and a lack of control regime. It is both that you cannot check the cases that come in, and that you do not receive notice of an infringement. When we are upset about the lack of reporting, breaches of the purchasing system or other issues addressed in the control committee, the consequences for individuals are often quite small compared to the consequences of breaches of legislation and failure to follow up on child protection. I want to raise some of the particular points left in this matter. One of them is in education. Many in the field of child protection feel that they don't have enough ballast when they start protecting their children. We also disagree with the fact that child protection education lies within a financial framework which means that you have a very low intensity in the follow-up of each student. There are also major weaknesses, for example: in the case of multicultural competence. This is a field where it is important that people feel that they have good ballast and are safe at their job from day one. We see that child-restraints in several places are struggling with major tourovers, many new jobs and great wear and tear on their employees. This is perhaps the profession in which relationship competence is the most important. There are probably some professions in which it is a little more demanding to be able to build relationships than others, among other things. the teaching profession and the police profession. You have to be able to relate to people in different situations. But if someone really needs to have relationship skills, it's child protection educators. Thinking that it can only be built up by distant lectures and books is wrong – it can't. Therefore, these students need to be challenged with much closer follow-up than we have today, and therefore, the Left disagrees with the fact that child protection education lies within the financial framework it actually does. I think we need to look at how we're going to strengthen it in the future to enhance the quality of child protection. The second point that we in the Left have been concerned with, and that we get a lot of support in the comments, is that you have to turn the pyramid around in the child protection. You have to move the resources to those who see children in your eyes. And those who see children in their eyes are the first line service. Today, we've created a pyramid in the Child Protection Organization, which means that resources are tapped from the first line service and up into a big bureaucracy, where all power and competence are moved, where all experience is moved, and it's moved away from the kids. It's in this field that we really should have turned around the pyramids and made sure that the first-line service was where you have the skills, where you have the most resources and where you make the most of the decisions. Then a slightly larger grip is required. We have suggested that it must mean that one puts down the regional link and shifts power downwards. Then there are some municipalities that are too small for that. Then we believe that we should have had larger municipalities that could take on just one of the core tasks of our welfare state, namely how we take care of children. But then the municipalities should be organized so that they have large enough units that are professionally good enough to take care of the kids. This I think is coming. I think it is sad that we have not been pressured before. I noticed that the former Minister for Children had very good political statements from his party in the SV in this field. I had hoped that SV could have lifted those statements into the Council of State chair, because I believe that there is a need here for a larger grip that is about moving the resources closer to the child. For any minor error here is not an error in a reported column, it could mean completely ruined lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e893	First, I would like to say that the National Audit Office's investigation is a valuable contribution to the government's efforts to ensure that children and young people receive the necessary help and care in a timely manner. In the last seven years, the red-green government has worked purposefully to ensure that municipal child protection services ensure that young people who need it receive the necessary help and care. We in the Centre Party are therefore concerned with identifying the causes of the weaknesses identified in municipal child protection. The center party wants a child protection where the kids are in focus. The best interests of the child should be taken into account in the choice of measures, and we believe that more work will be done on prevention and less on repair. The government's commitment to child protection in the municipalities is absolutely necessary. In the municipality, they're closer to those who need the help. That's where they have the opportunity to discover conditions where kids don't feel well. This is the first line service, and it's the most important one for the kids who need help. It appears from the report that there are large differences between municipalities in the time taken to carry out studies after the notification of concerns received. At 17 pst. studies take too long, giving reason to focus specifically on the municipalities that break the deadline in a majority of their cases. These municipalities should have much to gain from the experience of those municipalities that comply with deadlines. We are aware that we still have challenges in municipal child protection. The smallest professional environments need to be strengthened, and it must not be done as left will, by merging municipalities. This can be done through inter-municipal cooperation. It's done, and it's given good results in many places. There is also more that needs to be addressed. One of these areas is to increase the competence of child protection — including the competence of education to work in the field of child protection. There are positive developments that we must also include in this debate. That child protection started 7 pst. more surveys in 2011 than in 2010, are one improvement, that child protection is reaching more and more young people, another. The number of employees in municipal child protection is also increasing. The increase of 470 municipal child protection posts from 2011 is due to earmarked funds from the state. The escalation this government has made in this field will produce positive results in the years ahead. A clear, positive development can therefore be expected in a number of relevant areas in which the National Audit Office has focused. The resources of municipal child protection seem to have reversed a negative trend, and we in the Center Party both expect and will contribute to further improvement in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e914	The development of child protection in the last ten years has been worrying. We have seen over time a sharp increase in the number of cases, while the number of employees has not increased accordingly. An assumed consequence of this is that the quality of the work performed by the employees has been impaired. The National Audit Office confirms that this is a long way to go. Initially, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has had a good dialogue with the National Audit Board on Child Protection. The government's concern about the development of child protection was that the government in 2010 launched the biggest promise in municipal child protection of 20 years. The child protection promise, as we call it, consists of three parts — firstly, a resource promise, secondly, a new organisation and, thirdly, new priorities. I'm going to go into these elements. To take the resource lift first. The government strengthened the municipal framework in 2010 including: with reference to the challenges of municipal child protection. This contributed to a total growth in municipal child protection of 110 posts in 2010. However, it was far below what we had foreseen. Since 2011, the government has earmarked funds for child protection. It has not been uncontroversial – there have been many opinions about it. However, a direct consequence of the earring has, among other things, have held 470 new posts. The resource promise is being extended in the year – in 2013 – and the 470 posts are being continued. In addition, there are 205 million new ones. kr. set aside for further reinforcement. The funds shall be used in municipalities for 270 new posts, for skills and interaction measures for employees there, and for enhanced supervision, for supervision is also important. As a direct result of the government's child-restraint initiative, when we include this year's budget, we have now strengthened municipal child-rescue protection by approx. 850 posts. This, as I said, has given the deciduous greatest increase in the number of jobs in the last 20 years. But this has also led to a more lively debate on child protection. Several people are concerned with child protection, both here in Stortinget – as Minister of Children’s Affairs is pleased with me – and this has led to a more lively and engaging debate locally in the municipalities, among others. because we have called for applications for new posts to be the subject of political discussion. This has meant that a number of municipalities have gone through their own child protection and had some aha experiences. When I travel around, I am delighted to meet the rapporteurs and advisers who have begun to engage in their child protection, and take back the influence of their own child protection. The total eartag is now close to 0.5 billion. kr to municipal child protection in 2013. Betsing has had an effect. Despite an increase in the number of cases, municipalities reported for the first time over many years a decrease in time frames, an increase in the proportion of action and care plans and an increase in the proportion of supervisors — to mention something. The negative developments that have lasted over the year have reversed, and positive developments continue. More children get the right and good help. To point 2 on reorganization: the Ministry has recently assessed the division of labour between the State and the municipality, i.e. the 2004 reform, when the State assumed the functions and financial responsibilities of county councils in the field of child protection. In the autumn of 2012, we had various proposals for changes in the allocation of responsibility for tasks and funding between the State and the municipality at broad consultation. The aim is to improve the provision of child protection for children and, among other things, to improve the provision of child protection for children. to overcome some of the cooperation problems that we have identified in five evaluation reports that have come after the Fafo report that was mentioned from the Chair and that have otherwise been subject to some criticism due to methodological issues. In the spring of 2013, I am promoting a legislative proposal on changes to the Child Protection Act, which includes: the future organisation of child protection. I'm delighted with the discussions we're going to have in the future about what kind of child protection we're seeing in the years to come. In addition to this proposition, we're also going to have a big message that's going to look a lot longer and say something about what kind of developments we want. To item 3, new priorities: I want to strengthen the participation of children in the legislative proposal. The bill will also deal with some of the proposals for the Raundalen Committee’s suspension, Better protection of children’s development – NOW 2012: 5 – which has now been consulted. I also want to say something about the competence challenges. It's quite right, as has been pointed out by a number of people here, that we have skills challenges. The government will strengthen the competence of child protection and contribute to larger and more robust disciplines in municipalities. In addition, child protection training is further developed. The National Audit Office points to the need to strengthen leadership competence in the field of child protection. We fully agree with that. In 2013, we started work on establishing a master’s degree in child protection education for the start of the study in 2014. We have also earmarked funds to strengthen the competence of municipal child protection. In 2011, the municipalities were allocated approximately 52 million. for measures of competence. Many municipalities have chosen to use the means to improve their competence in the handling of messages and surveys. Follow-up of children in interventions and competences on how to deal with issues where children have been subjected to violence and sexual assault is also a priority. In 2013 more than 47 million will. go to interaction and competence actions in the municipalities. The funds shall include, inter alia: stimulate cooperation between child protection services. The aim is to achieve greater and more robust professional environments and to meet skills needs that the municipalities themselves believe are important. Befring Committee – NOW 2009: 8, Development of Child Protection Competence. Qualification for work in the field of child protection through practical and research-based education — made more recommendations on how education and training that qualify for work in the field of child protection can better meet the need for competence in services. We will establish the necessary dialogues to ensure that the training courses which qualify for work in the field of child protection are more responsive to the practical requirements of the field of competence, such as: The representative Skei Grande was inside. The government is now facilitating good follow-up and professional guidance for the newly educated and newly recruited children’s protection through their first year of service, a so-called ‘guided first year’. In 2013, the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion established a further training in guidance for experienced child protection staff. Guidance on new entrants and the provision of continuing training are among the main tools for recruiting and retaining staff. Through the involvement of several child protection positions and means of competence, the establishment of a first year of guidance in the service and the provision of further training, we have strengthened the ability of municipalities to recruit and retain competent staff. These are important elements of a lift of skills that will provide better services and services to vulnerable children and young people and their families. Children and young people in child protection shall have the opportunity to express their views and wishes before decisions are taken on their behalf. I am not satisfied that studies in child protection are being carried out without the child protection service talking to the children. This is unacceptable. Child protection is for the benefit of children, and they have the right, even after the Convention on the Rights of the Child, to express their views on matters relating to them. They have the right to be involved in their own affairs, and they should be listened to. That doesn't mean they're always going to be able to determine the outcome, but they're going to get information, they're going to be heard and respected, and they're going to be able to say something about their situation. It is a prerequisite for quality in service, it is also a prerequisite for many to be able to move on in life and gain self-respect, and that is a prerequisite for security. So this is about rights that are so serious that they are dealt with in the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. I have therefore proposed a new legal provision that strengthens the right of children to be heard in child protection. I would like to make it clear here that the proposal requires children to express their views throughout the course of child protection, not only in cases where a decision is to be taken, as the law can be interpreted today. In addition, we are working on both education and training for those who are already in the field of child protection. We're working against the councillors, we're working against the courts, against the experts, and we've got legislation out for consultation now, which also means that we need to strengthen children's rights to be heard and to get information in other areas, among other things. within the scope of the Children’s Act. The National Audit Board recommends that the BLD assess how the Children’s, Youth and Family Directorate can be strengthened as a specialised directorate, so that the Directorate can provide more professional support to the municipal child protection services. In the consultation note that we sent out in the autumn of 2012, the Ministry proposed to turn the country's professional role towards the municipalities against increased responsibility for general training and professional guidance. In practice, the proposal extends the mandate of the Directorate for the Protection of Children, Youth and the Family, i.e. Bufdir. that, among other things, they: be given responsibility for making professional recommendations on what is good child protection practice. While the consultation shows that there is a relatively large upturn in the establishment of a common national body responsible for the professional development of child protection, the consultative bodies are divided into views on how this should be organised. The Ministry follows up the proposal in the proposal, which is presented to the Stortinget in spring 2013. We have also started work on the development of materials to help municipalities in their work on evaluating relief measures. I notice that both the National Audit Office and the Committee focus on the quality of the measures, which is, of course, a very important point. It's good with this focus. From this year on, we are demanding half-yearly reporting from municipalities on whether they have evaluated the relief measures, and we are developing a better tool to help municipalities. Together with the Municipality of Oslo, KS has launched the project Evaluation of relief measures to improve quality and ensure that action plans are drawn up on the premises of users. The municipalities involved are Bergen, Trondheim and Asker and four parts of Oslo. To date, 130 child protection consultants have used the methodology, and 50 municipalities have reported an interest. It is important for all municipalities in the country to have access to evaluation tools for the evaluation of relief measures and to help implement the tools if the municipalities so wish. I will return to this in the delivered message. I'm glad to say that we have a child protection in progress. I believe that the grips that are now being done will lead to a better child protection for the children concerned. We strengthen the capacity, and we provide more robust child protection services. We offer new skills measures both to new employees and to those who have been in the service for a while. The harvest consultation round has given us many good insights into the further development of child protection. Among other things, I have registered the wish and need for guidelines and professional recommendations on what is good child protection practice. I take with me all the recordings and look forward to transmitting the Child Protection Proposition to the Spring Storting. In the end, I want to say that child protection therefore needs committed politicians at all levels. In the past, it was such that child protection was largely criticised for being too interested in intervening with children. I feel that there has been almost a revolution in the view of children in our society, who benefit the children. Maybe it's about establishing what child psychologist Magne Raundalen, who led this sample I was in, in the newspaper recently called a mental aversion paragraph, that we all understand that we're part of the extended child protection. It is not just professional child protection that can do the job, everyone has to contribute – and, of course, public services. They are in the first row — both Nav and, not least, kindergartens are important. It gives us a unique opportunity to get in early. Health stations, school, police and leisure – you name it – are all essential. But then it has to be understood that children are not the property of the family, but that the family is essential to ensure a good development for children. Now we know a lot about the adverse effects of growing up in homes that are both unsafe and directly dangerous to the children. It hurts them so much that many of them do not survive their childhood and youth. I want us to have a child protection, not a youth protection. Then we have to do a lot in the future, because we have a lot of youth protection today. Here we're going to look at a number of things that are going to be challenging – even controversial – in the future. I hope that this committee will also be involved, so that we can give children the childhood they are entitled to, which is their human right to have, and which we know characterize their lives and their health for generations to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e973	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e987	It is not the first time – and it may not be the last time – that the Grand Duchy, with the attitude of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, deals with a document from the National Audit Office on Nav, i.e. the Working and Welfare Act. Nav manages welfare schemes for more than 300 billion. kr. Half of Norway’s population is in contact with the establishment every year. It goes without saying that the performances managed by Nav affect and are of great importance to individuals and society as a whole. Nav is today itself the backbone of the welfare society — the universal rights, which are an important part of the Norwegian and Nordic social model. It is therefore essential that the organisation has a functioning performance management and sound operational management. It is important that users receive the necessary information and service. With regard to the document we are examining today, with regard to the partnership between the state and the municipality of Nav, it appears that the proportion of people who are dissatisfied with the service is over time higher for the group receiving benefits from both the state and the municipality than for those receiving only State benefits. The National Audit Office believes that the information exchange between the State and the municipality is not good enough. The Committee stresses that Nav should meet users with respect, service, competence, information, accessibility and a well-adapted service provision. The Committee has also noted that the user surveys for the years 2008 to 2011 do not show any decrease in the level of dissatisfaction with the service. It should be possible to establish better contact with user representatives locally also in models other than local user selections in order to achieve the objective of involving in planning, implementing and evaluating the services of the agency. The establishment of Nav was based on a welfare policy vision, with one first-line service in the labour and welfare system as an important instrument for achieving the objective of a comprehensive labour and social policy. A unanimous growth agreed with the premises of more people in work, fewer in social security, simpler for users and more efficiency. In order to achieve the key objectives of the Nav reform, the Committee stresses that providing a more coordinated first line and comprehensive assistance to users with complex needs was and is the main focus of the Nav reform. Improving the use of cross-border resources needs to be developed. The partnership between the state and the municipality of Nav is a new model that challenges the principles of responsibility, management and management, and I think we should stress and record that it is not the simplest. On 22 August 2012, a new cooperation agreement was concluded with KS on the partnership between the State and the municipalities of Nav. The agreement emphasises the further development of cooperation for the benefit of users. The Committee will support the importance of strengthening and localising knowledge of the partnership in general. The Ministry also points out in its comments that there have been problems involving user organisations in several places, as they are not organised at municipal level. The Ministry also agrees with the National Audit Office that it is necessary to involve users more closely in the further development and quality assurance of the service offer at each Nav Office. At the time of the establishment of Nav, a unanimous majority agreed on the premise of more people in work, less on social security, more flexibility and easier for users. That was the starting point. Let us admit that it has been a difficult process to implement this reform. We should really thank the employees for the willingness they have had to do this. The Nav employees have to a very large extent been pick-ups in the criticism of the station. They deserve praise for the job of keeping the floor going for a demanding time. So we're going to think that the childhood disease is now behind us. It's been over six years since the merger, and Nav, as we know, carries out the tasks that were previously carried out by the merged entities. Finally, I am tempted to add – and this applies to the general public sector – that the challenges of achieving good and efficient public service production will increase in the years to come, among others. because we get more older, and we get higher demands from users for quality, service and availability. The demand for services is high both from the political system and from the users – i.e. a ‘sandwich’ case. The requirements of the first line service are increasing and increasing and the pressure on the first line service is increasing. The focus on the first-line service is also increasing, as it is where users meet public agencies. It is we, as magnification, through our decisions, and the government, as executive, who are responsible for the organisation and functioning of the public sector for the benefit of the users. This also applies to Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1013	The rapporteur has presented the comments on which the Committee is composed. The progress party is somewhat more critical than the case rapporteur and has some own comments in the setting. We believe it is ominous that, long after the Nav reform, there are still significant challenges. Nav has been a repetition of the reports of the National Audit Offices, both in Document 1 context and in special reports. It's becoming so much to put your finger on, over so long, that there's reason to ask questions about the government's ability to solve the challenges that are in the department. The Progress Party considers much of the blame for the challenges and problems Nav has faced, is misorganisation, lack or failure to cope with enough political governance signals from various labour ministers, lack of capacity building within the Nav, and lack of control and follow-up by the government. In spring 2008, administrative units were set up. The intention of these units was to ensure that the Nav offices locally could free up time to give full attention to their core tasks, including: user follow-up. In addition, they would ensure a more efficient and holistic approach. In retrospect, it can be seen that these objectives were not achieved. The result has almost been shown to be the exact opposite. We also note that a central problem was that the ICT systems were not adapted to the new division of labour, and that the creation of administrative units resulted in a high level of social security competence being shifted into these units, while the Nav offices were drained for such competence. In our comments, we have referred to a number of points of view and proposals that the Progress Party has made in the past and that, had they been put in place, would improve the present situation. These proposals include, inter alia:\t\t You can change the settings of the return of competence to the first-line/nav offices to ensure adequate assistance and follow-up of users closer contact with the labour market and increased cooperation so as to allow more people to enter the labour market a level of competence for employees more clearly defined division of tasks and interfaces It is essential to have a clear interface so that the different levels know what to do within the different performances. Furthermore, it will be necessary to transfer more decision-making powers from administrative units down to the Nav offices. The interface must prevent duplication of work. a more offensive ICT bet I have visited Nav offices myself, received information about the ICT situation and, to put it mildly, was shocked by what I have seen. And perhaps most importantly: introduction of a single guideline rather than the current two-guideline system; Today’s partnership with municipalities has proved to be a demanding and challenging partnership, which should be amended. With these measures, we would probably have a different current situation than we have today. Nav is a significant part of the country's budget. The Nav budget has also been strengthened over time. To achieve the key objectives of the Nav reform; to get more people involved in work, user-oriented services, efficient management, etc., there is still a long way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1066	The purpose of the study has been to assess the appropriate functioning of the model of partnership between the State and the municipality and in line with the leadership of the Stortinget in the Nav reform. The survey covers 2010 and 2011. This is too many of us more than demanding. I have noticed that the main findings presented by the Riksrevision are cautious – to me a little uncertain. It is incredibly demanding to get a cant above the theme and to be able to force in those areas where it is essential to do something about it. Nav has – as others have been involved – responsibility for over 300 billion. kr. It is absolutely vital that Nav works every day considering all the people who need Nav's help and performance. Only the operating costs of Nav are about 11 billion. kr, or at the level of all budget support for Norwegian agriculture. It's hard things we're talking about. So for me, the National Auditor's description is careful. I feel that here it is very demanding to see what is needed to improve the establishment, so that more people are satisfied, and more people are in a better situation. Because, as the representative of Marit Nybakk was in the room, there are many things that should get better. I'm not going to go into this much, but a topic that meets me very often when I have contact with Nav through people that I'm trying to help is the fact that in 2008 administrative units were established. The intention was good. Local Nav offices were thus to free up time to give full attention to their core tasks — follow-up of users. But we all know that following up users means that you need to have people who have experience and competence in a reasonably broad area, and an overall perspective both in terms of social science, in many cases, and in terms of economics. Many in the department have a desire to restore competence to the first line. The first line is the people who sit on the counter, or the people who choose to visit the people who will be helped where they live. It is absolutely essential that the people in the first line have the necessary experience robustness so that they can emerge with confidence, and that you can make progress in matters, which is incredibly difficult in many cases. Here you have a two-guided system. Several point to the need for one guideline. If the municipalities could become more involved in matters related to Nav, for example: For those with reduced ability to work, or those with a combination of problems with drugs and psychiatry, it would – in my experience – be quite right. Both the administrative and the political systems in the municipalities need more. The interaction and the control line that Nav has must be reinforced in this area to give you greater ownership of everything. What seems to me to be one of the most important and demanding things in Nav, is to get people into a working situation with their ability to work, thereby giving them the narcissism and the sense of the sea that it implies, and to correct and improve the situation for those who are struggling with drugs and psychiatry. The interaction between public services and the voluntary sector cannot be underestimated. It's also part of Nav's organization. There is a greater need to think about how to interact with resource people and local resource organisations that can help to take part in helping those who need public awareness to get a better life. This is something we need to focus more on, because it turns out that the public on their own does not have the power to take the huge challenge that the many life situations we are talking about here involve, and that is very demanding. Finally, this is extremely important. It's very difficult. The report of the National Audit Office is careful, which is the result of the fact that the tasks are very unwieldy, very difficult to see the whole, and there is always a dynamic development in which it is difficult to have a cant.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1085	The Nav reform has been one of the biggest upheavals in Norwegian administration. It has been the subject of a whole new cooperation between the state and the municipality, and new issues have emerged. The aim of Nav was to ensure a better and more comprehensive offer to the individual by bringing together different public services into a single establishment. The National Audit Office's report, which we are dealing with today, has looked at whether cooperation between the state and the municipality of Nav has been constructive. Unfortunately, it is concluded that there are too poor systems to exploit resources to maximise the efficiency of service provision. The report states that the information provided by a case handler in the department on a single user does not reach the case handlers in the municipalities, both because there are too many systems available and that the employees have not received sufficient training in the systems. This means that the service provision becomes more heavy. The Nav users have expectations that they will meet one office that talks, and no more. The government must ensure that Nav staff receive good training and ensure good systems that contribute to the more efficient use of resources. This will allow individuals to adapt their help to their needs. The national audit also points out that the data protection considerations have not been adequately addressed. This concerns in particular the physical design of the audience reception at the Nav offices. It is very important that the individual user is properly cared for. Users must provide a lot of sensitive information and it is particularly important that this information is received in a proper manner. I hope that the Council of State will follow this work closely and make the necessary changes to ensure that privacy is safeguarded. In previous reports, the national audit has identified significant differences in Nav in resource use and efficiency. It is important that the different offices benefit from each other’s experience in achieving good results. The operating budget of the Labour and Welfare Act has also been significantly strengthened in recent years. This is very good, because Nav needs to do many tasks, but the funds must be used in a constructive and sensible way to ensure that employees have good tools to help meet the objectives of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1096	Many – or really all the speakers before me – have been involved in the essence of the Riksaudition report, and I am not going to repeat what has been said. I want to start from what might be the most important political question: Is it going to be better in Nav now than before? Compared to what it was like before the reform, are we on the right track? Are we able to succeed enough in achieving the objectives of this room in terms of the Employment and Welfare Act and the objectives of the employment policy? It's very important things the Riksrevision points out, but it's also very important that there's progress year after year. I'm glad to see that it will be. Nav has been in a mad state – if you can use that word from the pulpit of the Great Britain – reform period, at least it has been very demanding, and you have built skills in the stone by stone. It is clear that measuring success may not always depend on how many people work and who are able to have competence in each other's areas, but on whether the user's follow-up will be better, if we succeed in getting people to work – that is, if we're on the right track. I think it's very interesting to go in and look at the history of Nav and at the debates at the time the Stortinge adopted the Nav reform, and look at the differences in results between a two-leader model and a one-leader model. There is no doubt that where there has been a one-leader model, at least the Riksrevision report shows it, there has been systematic greater integration across the Nav office. I think it's worth noting, given the work going on around the Nav reform. Then I want to address one of the challenges facing employment and welfare policy in the future: despite a good labour market, we are unable to have enough 'pull effect' for those who are perhaps the most struggling in the labour market, those who are on action in Nav, and who, to some extent, also have complex health problems. It is very important to continue working on the transition to work, the quality of action, and the kind of action portfolio Nav has to play on. You have to work with whether it's good enough quality, and if we're able to work well enough to succeed in the transition to work, to also succeed in view of the impact of the amazing job market that's out there. I really want to end it. The goal of the Nav reform was to provide people with complex problems with a better deal than the one they could give each other, and also the National Audit Office report, which we are dealing with today, clearly informs us that we are on the right track. It's a pleasure. There's still a lot of things to do, but we're all on the right track, after all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1109	The Nav reform is the biggest welfare policy reform ever. Think, the Stortinget was presented for the first time in 1948 with a message of popular concern, and in 1967, 19 years later, the law was passed in this Chamber. It was a long time to prepare for a welfare policy reform. Much was done along the way, but nevertheless – 19 years. As regards the Nav reform, the Communication was submitted to the Stortingen in the period 2002–2003. Then came the proposition a few years later, and in 2006 the first Nav office opened. Then the areas to be reformed and established were much, much larger than what we knew in 1967, so it was done very quickly, and it was challenging to merge two large state agencies with the municipal social service. We now see year after year that the results are getting better. There are challenges in some areas, on the quality of interventions, on the follow-up of each and a number of other things, but most user surveys point to the fact that users have become more satisfied. That's right and important. Then there was a representative who said that we are going to discuss the Nav reform many times and the results of reviews from the National Audit Office. It's probably going to happen in the years that are coming too, because it's important, and it's an important part of the improvement work that we're doing all the time. What this report has gone through, however, is not the whole Nav reform. What has been examined is the cooperation between the state and the municipality, whether that part works according to Storting's intentions. The majority of managers in the labour and welfare management believe that cooperation works well, and that is joyous. At the same time, the Riksrevision has identified several areas where there is a potential for development, and the Riksrevision makes concrete recommendations both to the Ministry of Labour and to the department. It becomes important in our further work. The Riksrevision's findings are similar in many areas to what we're familiar with. These are conditions both in the department and in the department with KS follow up. This is reflected in our response to the National Audit Office and the cooperation agreement that we have between the KS and the Ministry of Labour, which was signed last August. The Nav reform is primarily a user reform; the Nav office should provide a comprehensive service for services previously managed by two state states and municipalities. Users need to be the leader in the organisation and cooperation of each Nav Office. Not all users of Nav offices have complex needs. It is therefore not necessarily the case that all Nav offices have competence in all areas. Appropriate organisation must also be provided. The National Audit Office’s survey is an assessment of the success of cooperation based on the number of employees in each country and municipality working in each other’s fields. I am concerned that the issue of cooperation is successful or not, just as can be assessed on the basis of the actual nature of the overall user follow-up. Furthermore, we need to be aware that cooperation in the Nav office is being carried out locally. When the reform was adopted, there was a great deal of local freedom in the organisation of the Nav offices. The use of local freedom will also have an impact on several of the issues raised by the National Audit Office. For example, there is no formal obstacle to government employees having the necessary access to the municipal treatment systems. When this option is not used at any location, local conditions may justify this. Here we are concerned with one of the issues raised by an overall committee: that partnership between state and municipality in the management of labour and welfare is a new model, challenging our general principles of responsibility, governance and management. This has also spent a lot of time analysing researchers who have evaluated the Nav reform. What characterises the organisation of the new management of labour and welfare, and how can this organisation of administration be limited? Researchers point out that cooperation is formal and highly committed. The reasons for cooperation have been to find a cross-sectoral solution and management level for problems that would otherwise remain unresolved. Researchers point out that a consequence of the new organisation is that it becomes less clear who has political responsibility, and it can reduce political participation, especially at local level. Researchers are asking questions about whether this can lead to pressure towards state-making, and that national politicians are given an even more dominant role in welfare policy. I'm drawing out these moments from the researchers to illustrate that we need to be aware of how to facilitate good cooperation in the Nav offices. Developing local cooperation is not achieved by deciding on the details of the organisation and activities at the central level. It is by acquiring experience, systematicising knowledge of what works and does not work, and developing skills among employees that we can do this. The cooperation agreement between the KS and the Ministry of Labour has this starting point, and the follow-up to the partnership by the Directorate of Labour and Welfare has the same starting point. In my view, this is also in line with Stortinget's intentions of the Nav reform. In my view, the recommendations and comments of the National Audit Office are a little too simple and too small. Cooperation must be developed by those who exercise it. Nevertheless, the survey points to areas of development which are continuously working at several levels in the administration and in the ministry. There is now little noise around the cooperation in the Nav offices. Locally, actors usually find good solutions and at the central level work is being done to support cooperation. In November the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Labour jointly organized a day-to-day seminar on the partnership in which both researchers and local leaders were speakers. The participation and listening to the speeches made me believe that through the Nav offices and cooperation between state and local authorities, we have an organisation that is better suited to implementing and developing welfare policy than the previous organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1132	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1146	ICT in the criminal justice chain, including in the police, has been the subject of the Storting and the Monitoring Committee on several occasions in the past. However, it does not seem that there is a theme The Greatness will be finished in the near future. Still, it seems to be a while ahead until the police have a well-functioning and modern computer system. The aim of this study from the National Audit Office has been to assess how the Ministry of Justice and Defence has fulfilled its responsibility for effective criminal proceedings through the development of ICT. Previous audits have shown that the police have had major challenges with their ICT systems and that poor overall governance has weakened the interaction in the criminal justice chain. The size has shown on several occasions that work on improving ICT systems needs to be strengthened and that it is urgent. Riksrevisor Kosmo stated at the time of the submission of the study under consideration that: ‘This audit shows that little has been done to achieve the objective of electronic interaction. There is an unsatisfactory situation for both the police, the courts and the criminal justice system.’ The National Audit Office considers that there are significant shortcomings in the management of ICT work by the Ministry in the criminal justice chain and points out, among other things. that no concrete performance targets have been set in the allocation notes or requirements for reporting results on ICT interaction. The governance of ICT work is not in line with good governance practice, and there is a lack of an overall plan to concreteise the ICT strategy and to ensure progress. The National Auditor’s report also provides further recommendations on how to strengthen and better manage ICT work. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) and an overall control committee expect the Ministry to address the challenges and shortcomings identified in the report and to ensure that ICT work is now progressing in the criminal justice chain. It is important that the Ministry follows closely the work, sets clear objectives, and that these are actively followed up. The recommendations made by the Riksrevision must be taken into account in the further work and not just put into a drawer. One of the results of insufficient ICT systems is that the new Penal Code of 2005 and the Police Register Act could not be implemented. Better ICT systems could also provide greater efficiency. Working time could be freed from other tasks to combat and prevent crime. Although there may be a different view of how many years of work could have been spent on other tasks, it is raised beyond doubt that it would have meant more policemen in other active service. The challenges of ICT in the police and criminal justice chain have also been known to the government for a long time. The Christian People's Party therefore believes it is very unfortunate that the follow-up has not been better. Both during the audit hearing in 2010 and during the 22nd-July hearings in the autumn of 2012, it was clear that the Directorate of Police had wanted to give more priority to ICT, including: through re-priorities, but had been denied by political leadership in the Ministry of Justice. There have been many challenges to ICT in the public sector. It is enough to mention words like TRESS-90 in the then social security system and Oslo University Hospital – as this committee knows well – as examples other than the police. Sometimes it may seem as if each store should reinvent the powder. There should be tips, ideas and solutions to be found in others who have succeeded in the field of ICT, although probably some of their own adaptations have to be made. Perhaps there is also something to pick up from similar establishments in other countries. There must also be a basis for questioning the public's lack of competence in the field of ICT or the misuse of competences. Opposition parties believe that a review of ICT developments in central government should be carried out and an assessment of what should be done to improve the work done in individual departments and departments. It is positive that the letters of award in the justice sector now include clearer requirements for results and results reports. In the Christian People's Party, however, we do not feel confident that everything is now in good hands. However, what we know from the signals given is that there is still a long way to go before there is a new and adequate ICT system in place in the police and in the criminal justice chain as a whole. We also know that the cost of getting a solution in place is great. We're talking about billions of dollars and not millions. But new ICT solutions are a critical point for both police action against crime in general and to put in place, among other things. New penal code. The Christian People's Party is difficult to see that it is possible to solve the challenges in this area solely with redispatch of operating resources in the police, without other priority targets for the police having to give up. It is therefore absolutely necessary to also have own appropriations for this purpose, not only in 2013 but also in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1173	I will first be allowed to thank both the National Audit Office for providing a good audit report and for following up on previous work and the case rapporteur for putting together the Committee in this position in a good way. We're gathered here today again to discuss ICT and government. There have been many, many times before in this room and most often with background in some ICT scandals. It extends from TRESS-90 – the case rapporteur was present – through Oslo University Hospital and to this day, with another round of serious failures in the priority of ICT in the criminal justice chain. When the National Audit Office writes that there are significant shortcomings in the management of ICT work by the Ministry of Justice and Defence in the criminal justice chain, there is a poor diet. The Committee has also dealt with parts of this problem in the past. In the hearing on 11 October 2010, former police director Ingelin Killengreen stated that the ICT systems in the police were not suitable for fighting crime, which she said she had expressed to political leadership in the department on repeated occasions. During the verification hearings on 22 July 2011 last autumn, we were also told from Killangereen that the lack of recognition of the need to invest in ICT in political leadership in the department led to her resigning as a police director in some sort of protest. It is very serious that a government over time overlooks clear and unambiguous expectations from a unanimous increase. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs often has good comments, so I will allow myself to quote from Innst. 79 S for 2010-2011: ‘The Committee will point to the need for new ICT solutions in the police action. This is clearly a critical point in police work and also creates problems in work across police districts. The Committee has taken note of the unique opinions of the hearing bodies on the seriousness of the ICT situation. This was also underlined by the fact that the Council of State acknowledged that ICT has been downgraded for several years. The Committee would stress that new ICT solutions appear to be a critical point for both police action against crime in general and against organised crime in particular. The Committee finds it difficult to see that it is possible to address the challenges in this area solely by redeploying operational resources in the police sector without the need to give up other priority objectives for the police.’;» The latter also quoted the case rapporteur, as the Christian People's Party's position, but a whole committee has therefore supported this earlier. It is well formulated, but we still see that ICT work in the criminal justice chain is slow. Now, the new estimates for the entry into force of the new penal code – which is in a very unfortunate way linked to the challenges posed by the ICT system of the police – are at risk of starting up in 2015 or around it at the earliest. It's too weak. The challenge is that the clear messages given over time from the police, from the courts and from the criminal authorities have not been taken seriously. Police and criminal services have been told directly by political leadership to spend money on something other than ICT, and it is strange with such decisions that they make the fight against crime more difficult — not easier. Resource use is turned away from the fight against crime and into bureaucracy and administration. The fact that the government has put a lead on resource use in that direction makes it worse for us to be equipped to prevent, solve and apprehend criminals. So the government has prioritised short-term policies and political gains at the expense of long-term sustainability. The role of politicians is to lead – with direction for the future. It has failed in the Ministry of Justice in this area. Now, of course, there is no point in saying that there is now a new Council of State with new priorities. It is the same government that in any case bears the responsibility of the Riksrevision. That is why I would like to quote a small section from the following option: ‘The Committee would stress that improved ICT systems would contribute to the release of working time to other tasks to combat and prevent crime, and would provide more effective and simpler procedures.’ It is the whole committee that is behind this, and the Riksrevision estimates that one can release between 280 and 460 year olds for relevant police work if one had had proper ICT systems. In addition, the entire Committee agrees that it is now expected that the Ministry will ensure that ICT will continue in the criminal chain, and the Progress Party would wish to use as much as possible already developed systems, known as shelf products. Unfortunately, experience shows that when the state develops systems on its own, things are usually terribly bad. So I hope the Council of State can confirm that there is now also a common platform for the new ICT system for the police and the new ICT system for the criminal justice system. Developing parallel systems, which in any case have to talk to each other, can't be very smart, especially given that the court administration has already said that their system will be able to communicate with a new police system, only they will have some time to adapt it. In summary, the National Audit Office stresses in its report that this is too bad, and I expect the Council of State in its intervention later in the debate to agree with that, and that she can also come up with good news – on rapid improvement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1198	It is very clear from the Riksrevision report and from what the rapporteur said, and from the whole committee's attitude that this is what we call a serious matter. It is a very important and demanding issue that is being addressed, and I agree with what has already been said in this matter by other representatives, that this is a subject that we have dealt with on several occasions. Of course, this is also challenging when it comes to the criminal case chain and its effectiveness. It goes without saying that it is necessary to have more effective police work and a correct and accurate and effective follow-up to the courts that we have a good ICT system. However, it is not that the police are not working, it is not that the courts are not working. It is necessary to be told on this occasion that it is not so that we can characterize it as a crisis, but there is reason to criticise it, as it is done in the Committee's position – like what others have said, and that has been said in many cases today, but we say it here too. Nor do I perceive that neither the Council of State nor the Department has protested about this when we say that the Riksrevision report is thorough, but I also want to add that it is necessary, and that it points to more unfortunate circumstances. As it is said to us, as it is reported to us in the Committee – and we must, of course, rely on the information we receive – today’s systems are not easy to use, and therefore they are not applied sufficiently, and questions are also raised about whether good and relevant follow-up is provided. Now we know that very tailor-made methods and systems are often required for these things to work well. We know that, and I think it’s – and then I’m referring a little to the content, but also to the tone of the representative Anundsen’s posts – important to recognize that implementing, as it’s called, new ICT systems in large, complicated contexts is no easy matter. I heard the representative Anundsen say that it went so terribly wrong every time the state did this. Yes, we have examples of that, and we also recognised that in the government fraction, also through this setting, so it's not on it. But I don't think you should be too sure that this isn't a challenge in general in society too – because it is. Creating and implementing ICT systems is a major challenge in general, including in the state. So this has not been said to get away from what is criticising here, but I say this as a necessary shade of what I call the 'ton' in Anundsen's posts. What is then necessary in our context? I've been thinking about the expressions around it, but I want to say that what's necessary is what I want to call political attention. Heavy political attention needs to be paid to both the planning, follow-up and implementation of such projects. What has been said, and which is the most remarkable in this case, and which is very clear from the attitude – which is mainly behind the government fraction – is the criticism that the implementation of these ICT systems has taken so long, and that this in turn has led to the fact that we have not started the new penal code, nor the police registration law. This is characterized by others as unfortunate. I also use that word, because it's unfortunate. Then it is that an overall committee also believes that there is uncertainty as to whether the funds have been used in the best possible way when so much of the appropriations have been allocated to consultancy services. Maybe it's been necessary. But there's one side to what I want to say from here, and that's to make sure that we build our own skills on ICT within the state. It will in the long term be cheaper, better and more efficient than buying what I allow myself to call expensive consulting services. Of course, it is also important for the future, when it comes to the very matter we are talking about here – i.e. ICT within the criminal chain and the police – that we ensure that we get the necessary knowledge about this in the Police Directorate, in the police data and material service and in the police in general. Because, of course, it's not enough good, efficient and expensive systems if there's not enough knowledge and willingness to use those systems in a good and efficient way. We cannot demand – nor do I believe – that politicians should be closest to experts in these fields. We won't. But as I have said – and that may be one of the most important things I think in this case – political management and governance must be done from the top, and that must be done to meet the major challenges we have. Now, however, the situation is that we can confidently see in the meeting the work that is now being done in this area and in this matter. So now the government has chosen a new concept for the criminal justice system. Specific funds are allocated in 2013 – as the rapporteur pointed out – to the pre-project. However, system development work will take six to seven years. I must also characterize that as disappointing for a long time. So we cannot wait for any start until 2015 at the earliest. In the coming years – I am sure – we will see that considerable resources need to be allocated to new and modern ICT systems in many sectors. ICT developments will have to dominate in many areas such as Nav, hospitals, child protection, cooperation with business and in several other areas. Measures to ensure better coordination of ICT in the country will therefore always be necessary, not only to meet cross-sectoral needs, but also to ensure and simplify financial instruments and common components. However, ICT money does not provide better help quickly. I heard the representative Anundsen say that it might have been the way to buy more shelf goods. I do not have the competence to believe what he is doing, at least not so sloppy. Because it might be possible somewhere, but somewhere else it will be necessary to create your own systems. In our current case, I'm pretty sure the last one is the case. We need to create our own systems to deal with what we're dealing with here. So here it's not about shelf products, and it takes time to develop them. New, large ICT solutions are challenging for businesses, and they need to change working methods and procedures when modern tools are to be used. When everyday life is tough for employees, the desire for more colleagues emerges, while the right thing can be the development of modern ICT solutions that free labour for primary tasks. In such a context, strong guidance shall be provided to initiate, initiate and implement such comprehensive organisation. Long-term policy priorities are needed to be in the driver’s seat in the development and use of appropriate ICT solutions. It needs to provide effective services and management. There is reason to stress very clearly from this pulpit – and I say it that way because that is the way we emphasise our opinions – that the Directorate of Administration and ICT must now also have the task of monitoring the development of the new ICT solutions in the police. It has to be close, and it has to be done carefully. Finally, I would like to express my confidence in the fact that the Council of State Faremo will now put full pressure on this, as she has already said. It is recognised that the Riksrevision report supports the need for more targeted development. That's good, but it's also absolutely necessary. Of course, as I say – and that's a natural thing to say, but I want to say it anyway – behind the criticism that has been made, but it expresses full confidence that this is now being taken very seriously into account. I would also like to say that the Riksrevision report has been a good basis for the debate we have on this important matter today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1239	I would like to thank the case rapporteur and several others for their excellent contributions. I would also like to thank an overall control committee for seeing the seriousness and for having very many unanimous, good comments. The sad thing is that the Justice Committee almost never had the same good, unanimous remarks when these things were also discovered. Then there was a minority who heard about it and a majority who tried to cover it. Unfortunately, the findings of the National Audit Office are revealing the state of the ICT in the police and the rest of the criminal proceedings. Kolberg said there's no crisis. It may not be a major crisis, but there are quite a few small crises outside the police every day. For example, there should be a more practical way of delivering police reports: online. That's what you got. Then it was supposed to go right into the police's systems. But no then, they have to sit there and enter it manually after it has been sent in. So it's possible that it's practical for those who send in, but it's not particularly practical for the police. Then the situation is that police people see things, and they want to report in. It would also be nice if they could be reported directly through some technical doll beds from their patrol cars. But no, in some police districts they have to go into the police house to tell it and write it down, and loses valuable working time. Then you have systems that hang. From the Right, we have been asking for more information about what is being done in the various ICT projects in the police for several years. The Control Committee is talking about the snow that fell last year. Now it seems like you've agreed very much that there was a lot of snow last year that was very bad, but at the same time you were also aware that a good part of this snow was bad, even before today. Repeatedly, we received a reasonably unquestionable response from the then Minister of Justice Knut Storberget. Information on costs, time use and the extent of the problems had to be obtained from completely different sources than the Council of State. I want to go so far as to say that the Stortinget in the last six to seven years was given a good talk about, for example. admission to the Police College, or nominal numbers, and it was presented as if you had passed a penal code when you see that criminal law has not yet come into force. In the opinion of the Right, the budgets and the treatment of police budgets have been based on insufficient information on the state of the ICT in the police and the plans for the use of funds for ICT upgrades. The other thing was that you did not make the long-term choices, and that it was at the expense of something. The situation was that, when you first started to make choices, you had to bet on ICT, that it went on a very short-term need, that is, that you actually got to employ police officers. That was the situation after you started investing in ICT. Then Stortinget had to guess how much it was intended to spend on ICT, and then the police districts had to age with the number of jobs and not recruit all the new students who were graduated from the Police College. This is not a claim of a breach of parliamentary duty to provide information, but a mere observation that the government, after the budget procedure of the Stortinge, made economic priorities for the police, which I, to put it mildly, would have benefited greatly from the fact that the Stortinge had previously dealt with the budgets. The size is known that the government has made conceptual choices for the further development of the ICT systems in the police, and it is essential for the interaction with the other actors in the criminal justice chain to work. The solution chosen means that most of it is to be built from the ground up, and it can be a good solution. The size does not have enough information to determine whether the different options considered were good or bad. The right is, like others, concerned that this is going to be a very long and costly project, not least in the light of a number of experiences that many people have had, from the public sector in the past. We have asked for a separate issue about ICT for the Storting – not to be difficult with the government, but simply because there is good reason to have it to get this complete overview. After several years here, no one has yet been able to explain in an OK educational way what the ICT projects in the police have actually done, and that is quite little satisfactory for a member of the country's parliament. As many people have said, we have been making a huge head start because this has been down priorities for several years – following warnings from former police director Killengren. We have a police directorate that is now going to have its own departments working with ICT. We have our own PDMT. We have our own emergency network directorate. You can wonder how in the world you can have as many people as you can work with related issues, but you can't get ahead of it. Then you wonder where the stopper is. Where is the need for competence? Is there a question of the right people sitting in the right place to carry out what the whole Greatness has always foreseen to happen? It has been reported that the new criminal justice system is not in place until an estimated 2022. Then there is reason to ask questions about whether you are satisfied with this drive, or whether it is possible to cut some turns so that at least you can say 2021 or something, because this is simply, as many have said, too bad. A new government has to sort of clean this up. But this is an example of a large number of unpaid bills that a new government and a new regime have to do something about. ICT projects have been substantially funded with funds that would normally have been allocated to the operational budgets of the police districts. There has been a key element in the major economic challenges that most of the GHGs have been notified in recent years. Predictable and stable economic frameworks are crucial in the context of the development of new technologies for police districts to ensure security and prevent and investigate crime. We assume that in the future, the government will provide enough information about the projects and the progress of the presentation of the revised national budget, and preferably as a matter of its own to the Stortinget, so that it is possible for those of us who are not technologically talented and perhaps have a bit of a hard time – now, of course, I am speaking on my own behalf – to get a pedagogical overview of what the ICT situation in the police is really. As a little technologically skilled, I've had some meetings with people I expect to be able to do a hell of a lot more about this than I am, and then I discover that people who I thought would have more overview, at all, haven't had what they did either. There are people who have been in quite central positions in the justice sector. It worries me a lot, and it should worry more than me. In conclusion, Kolberg was concerned that more colleagues were often wanted, and that is a good reason for the police. They're too few, we all agree on that. But it's also true what Kolberg says, that there is a tendency that when there are more colleagues, there will be more to talk to. Quite a number of evaluations of police reforms, and research, show that there are more colleagues, for example. in a larger police house, it seems nice to meet former colleagues who may have been outsourced elsewhere, and not much more effective police work is done out of it. It is an important recognition that in future police reforms that we are going to make, in parallel with technology, we also get police force out of it. It is then important, in connection with a reform of results, that not only do you move on some boxes to have larger units that only help you get more colleagues together in one place and that are not necessarily out in the day-to-day and do good police work. That's actually what the population is asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1273	The national audit of ICT management in the criminal justice chain is thorough. It underpins the need for more targeted ICT development in the justice sector. The solutions must contribute much more to the better and more efficient performance of business tasks than they are at present and contribute to good governance and decision-making information. The seat of police and officers is the very centrepiece of the information exchanged with law enforcement, court, criminal law, lawyers and others. The Government will therefore contribute, as requested by the Committee’s chair, to the electronic interaction of the ICT systems of the police and officers, both within and outside the justice sector. We need solutions that enable the department to exploit the information across geographical and professional boundaries. The representative, Mr Dahl, invited a broad debate on justice. I am going to resist that temptation and I am going to go right to the fact that we have now chosen the concept strategy for the criminal justice systems in the police. As you know, I have joined the Police Directorate's proposal on the so-called Nybygg option, on the recommendation of the external quality insurer and after discussions in the government. This implies a substantial renewal. I agree with the Riksrevision and the Committee that it is very unfortunate that the entry into force of legislation is postponed pending changes in technical system solutions. However, it is this New Building option that best accommodates the needs identified by the July 22 Commission, related to analytical capacity, management, tactical and operational interaction and mobile communication with the individual patrol. The new construction option will also ensure that criminal justice systems will not prevent changes in work forms, organisational structures, tasks and legislation in the future. I do not believe that the risk in such a large project is significant, and I am, like the majority of the committee, committed to ensuring that we are at risk or take longer than intended. Therefore, before presenting cost-reimbursement proposals to the Storting, we will continue to work on measures to reduce risk. Among other things, we implement ICT renewal as a programme called the Value Added Programme, with several projects and deliveries defined and quality assured separately. This is absolutely necessary to ensure that the projects in the programme are adequately managed. I am following this process closely. Well, it's so important to be aware that ICT innovation itself is not enough. The renewal must be accompanied by the appropriate competences of the people who are to use the tools. I am glad that this point has also received a lot of attention so far today. Therefore, preparing the EEA to use technology in a new way, with changes in the work processes, will be an important element of the Value Added Tax Programme. Only in this way will ICT solutions lead to more efficient longer-term operations. The added value programme also means strengthening the strategic competence and capacity in the areas of ICT management and development. I am concerned that the position of police and officers builds sufficient competence and capacity in their own activities, not least at the level of management. Overall, this will make the establishment less vulnerable and depending on external consultants — and it will reduce the share of costs going to external consultants. With this, we want to increase knowledge and opportunities for re-use and use of previous solutions – which were also referred to by the chairman of the committee – and buy shelf products. It is important to ensure that the police and officers' seat has the necessary maturity, that it is able to develop, operate and make use of the significant benefits that new criminal systems will bring. The Directorate of Police is in the process of doing this. The Ministry of Justice and Security now has a more active approach to ICT developments in the justice sector. We have strengthened the competence and capacity for overall ICT governance in the department. As of 2012, we require that the underlying agencies and related activities report regularly on the status of ICT operations, management and projects. We are developing a comprehensive ICT action plan for the entire justice sector. The Ministry will endeavour to provide clear, measurable and predictable management signals to businesses – both in the field of ICT and in other business management. In other words, it is important that ICT governance and priorities are seen in the context of the other tasks, resources and needs of enterprises. The National Audit Office’s study has shown that the Ministry of Justice and Defence has not adequately managed ICT developments in the justice sector in accordance with defined objectives. It is challenging to ensure that large and partly complex enterprises, with different societal tasks and maturity levels in the field of ICT, are adequately coordinated and able to develop and exploit the benefits of new interaction solutions. I would therefore like to consider further measures for the management and follow-up of ICT developments in the justice sector if necessary. This gives cause for concern that it was so late in 2006 that this government, as the first, invited to the first debate on ICT in society. New technology has been put into operation at a remarkably high speed. We know that Norway and the Nordic countries are at the forefront, and that this industry is becoming increasingly important in our country. We benefit from strong competitiveness, increased quality of service and faster solutions. But this also gives us challenges, related to both security, privacy and, not least, management. I allow myself to say that today's generation of leaders is in a very special way challenged by the speed of the introduction of new technology into our society. Of course, this also applies to the justice sector. However, this challenge needs to be addressed, and I look forward to a much more offensive way of using new technologies in our sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1294	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1297	I want to use the occasion that this line change gives me, to raise a case that from the time I got acquainted with it, has puzzled me a little. The Council of State was very concerned about the need to train those who work in the first-line service, so that they can use the tools that the Ministry buys for them. My question is, how much knowledge does the Ministry acquire about the everyday life in which they are in the first-line service and how they are going to use it actively in their everyday lives? When I talk to cops in e.g. Finnmark to use a weapons register cannot register Sami names because the data does not accept Sami names. It seems like you've purchased systems that aren't entirely related to the everyday life that the people in this have. I guess there are also people with Sami names who should be in the weapons register. Why don't you have this knowledge?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1304	Without knowing this specific matter, I think there is a knowledge of the state of things in large parts of the justice sector – also seen in connection with other parts of society. We talk about how this is translated into practical action, so that it gives both officials and managers new management and working tools. We have a big challenge in making the good, forward-looking solutions, but we're not on the ground. We make significant investments that both facilitate the infrastructure challenges in the establishment and that gradually provide better tools for each official. I know that technology itself also makes that kind of language challenge easier than it might initially seem. Putting the full operation of technology into practice is important in the work we have ahead of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1313	I just want to follow up on asking if the Council of State can assure me that the challenge like that. policemen in Finnmark experience when they have to find Norwegian versions of Sami names to get it into the weapons register, they will actively take up the ministry and get it sorted out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1319	We have had an arms commission in work for a longer time. They gave up their settings some time ago. It's been at the hearing. In the follow-up to that setting, it will be possible for us to address that kind of question, because it is about both monitoring and recording systems related to carrying weapons. We will have the opportunity to discuss what is needed to ensure the good, qualitative solutions to good control of the use of weapons in Norway during the coming period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1326	In my opinion, it is also necessary to draw a political lesson from this report, namely that – as I said in my speech – the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is very much in agreement with the situation description. The Judicial Committee and the former Council of State were never close to saying something similar, although the Gjørv Commission clearly stated that there must have been a lot of evidence of this situation – before the Gjørv Commission came to its conclusion. The answers given to the Stortinget in all previous years were, if not incorrect, at least reasonably inadequate. My question then is: what lessons has the Council of State taken in informing the Storting about the real situation in the justice sector, seen in the light of this report and the experience gained, related to the previous Council of State information to the Storting on this type of problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1333	It is very central to facilitate the use of ICT in the police and public services — throughout the justice sector. I take the report from the National Audit Office, the Committee's position and the report from the 22nd of July Commission with me on the basis that we are now preparing. I want to come back to the Stortinget with a message during the first quarter, where we try to draw up what is the base wall of the bet, and also make some of the challenge visible in the time to come. I have said that before, and I say it again: I have concentrated on the future perspective and have not gone into the historical discussion in such detail as I feel that the representative Oktay Dahl asked for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1340	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1343	I noticed that the representative Kolberg thought it was a problem with my tone from this speaker chair – I am not quite sure what he meant by that. But at least I could say that I liked the tone of the council very much. She was self-critical in the areas where it was necessary to be self-critical, and it clings to a government council that heads a department that gets this kind of criticism from the National Audit Office and from the Committee. So I think that's very good. The representative of Kolberg said that it is no easy matter to introduce a new ICT system. I think everyone in this room will agree on that. The challenge in this case is that that is not the problem, that I also referred to in my post. The problem is two things: there are still significant shortcomings in the management of ICT work by the Ministry of Justice and Security in the criminal justice chain, as the Riksrevision says, and the second is that implementation of the ICT system has not been a challenge, but with the lack of political priority for the implementation of a new system. Had you started a lot earlier, we would now have been a lot longer. That's what's critical in this case, therefore also this slightly irritating tone, because it actually costs us a lot. We are not freed from the resources we needed to fight crime – and that is a challenge. Then there was a small discussion about shelf goods versus new developments. The representative Kolberg first said that he did not have the competence to conclude a bastant, but he nevertheless concluded that shelf products could not be used in this context. That's interesting. What I said in my post – and I think that is still very important – is that you use shelf goods as much as possible. I am very pleased that the Council of State said it was agreed. There are products that have been developed and can be used quickly and that need not be developed from the bottom. To put it this way: I am considerably better satisfied with the statements of the Council of State from the pulpit than with the contribution of the representative of Kolberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1354	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 6th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1368	The background for each year's Stortinget getting Meld. St. 4 from the position of the Prime Minister’s office – and the Committee on Control – we find in the Rules of Procedure of the Storting § 14 nr. 9(b). It is assumed that the government will provide an annual notification of how the request and investigation decisions of the Stortinget have been followed up. The notification shall briefly explain what the Government has done or intends to do with decisions taken by the Stortinget. The origin of these notifications is the establishment in 1999 of a new procedure to verify the follow-up by the government to the Storting's instructions. Let me add that the experience with these messages is positive. I've been following them for four years, and it works very well. It is important to ensure that the decision of the Grand Duchy is followed up and that the Grand Duchy is given the opportunity to monitor the progress made in the implementation of each decision. But also for budgetary proposals, it is important and necessary for us to have a comprehensive overview of the request decisions. The notification of the year is transparent and is clear. The Prime Minister’s Office has obtained opinions from the respective departments on the follow-up and examination of the decisions of the 2011–2012 Storing Session. The SMK has also followed the Innst. S. No 156 for 2000-2001, where the then Control Committee and the Constitutional Committee stressed that if the first communication issued after the adoption of a decision indicated that the government would follow up decisions later, it would be necessary to provide further information on this matter in the following year. Such information has also been included in the message we are processing today. It is underlined in the Communication that the Stortinge will receive a clear feedback on the follow-up of individual request decisions by the Government. Let me also add that it did not promote any investigation decisions during the period. During the notification period 33 request decisions have been submitted. The increase from the previous year is mainly due to 12 requests from the Special Committee dealing with the presentation of the attacks by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence on 22 July 2011. That's another 14, but I'll get back to that. The Committee points out that 4 of these 12 decisions may be challenged. I'm not going into any of these. In addition, the Committee has requested that all 14 decisions of the Special Committee – which came together the other two – be considered together and have therefore obtained feedback from the Prime Minister on the decisions No. 409 and 413. Some of the request decisions are the same in the Committee — the conclusion is largely absent. An overall committee awaits further examination and waits for the adoption of the decisions. The premise to wait for the interview is a little bit different for some of these. This applies, inter alia, to: the proposal to ask the government to assess the economic and administrative implications and to return to Stortinget with a proposal for the rights of users-led personal assistance for users with high needs. It is also a proposal for a review of the Outdoors Act and a few other requests by the Storting Energy and Environment Committee. There are other decisions here, it should be added, where the government parties in the control committee believe that decisions can be challenged – there are a few of them – where the opposition considers the opposite. Otherwise, it may be worth noting that the decision to return to Stortinget with a separate electoral system for the Church is within the Report of the Year. St. 4. Here a joint committee has noted that the government will present a case to the Stortinget in the spring of 2013 and awaits it before the request decision can be queried. I would also refer to the debate and discussion in the Storting of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs' position on changes to the Constitution as a result of a new relationship between the Church and the State, but also before it, in the light of the suspension of the Church, Education and Research Committee. The same applies to the decision on investigation work on cumulation by decision-making. Here the government in the notification announces that the case will be promoted with possible change at the 2017 elections. The Committee therefore awaits receipt of this request decision. With this I recommend the setting of the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1389	Several have not asked for the floor in Case No. 7th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1403	The strange thing about this case is that it really takes a very long time to prepare it, because we're going to go through a huge number of protocols from all the departments over a whole six-month period. But fortunately, we rarely find reason to have major and long debates on the review of the State Council protocols, because they are basically in order. What we are discussing today is the review of the State Council Protocols from January to June 2012. I would like to make a few brief comments as a result of the Committee's discussion. One is that this time we have also carried out a so-called regulatory check by using the Storting investigation section to help us see if the regulations are in line with what is the Bill of the Storting. This time, there was a temporary provision for the recognition of children’s hazards born of surrogate mother abroad and the export credit scheme that was selected for a separate review. In its opinion, the Investigation Section has stated that both of these regulations are in line with the Storting's decisions and assumptions. It is a view to which the Committee has agreed. Another thing I think there is reason to mention is that the committee has written its own comment on the appointment of office. We have noticed that there are a significant number of senior management positions in the central administration that are occupied by so-called internal applicants. The Committee has, in so far as it has not criticised it, but has stressed the importance of the reality of the designation of posts. The Committee also considers that there is reason to believe that the recruitment of several external applicants can contribute to providing positive and new impetus to the central government. The Committee has over time received a number of requests for office, and so many times we have dealt with this matter in the committee that we also found reason to mention it in the vote. This concerns the practice of the rules. It follows from the law of office § 3 that: «In the event of appointment in office, under the Basic Law, Section 21 oath or insurance must be given before the letter of formal notice is drawn up and before he takes up his duties. If the oath or insurance has not been given within a time limit laid down by the Ministry, the appointment shall be cancelled.’;» It is also the case that a separate wording is to be included in the speech to the appointment, subject to the subsequent signature by the applicant of such an office or insurance. We have noticed in our review – and it shows how thorough our review is – that in some cases such a formulation has not been included in the Council of State talks. The Committee has chosen to ask the Prime Minister's office to ensure that these procedures are followed up by the ministries and that one no longer forgets important parts of the formal aspects of the appointment of officials in the State. With that, this totally unanimous vote is put ahead of you, I'll say, any debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1423	Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1429	We're going to vote on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-01-24.ana.ud1805e1608	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
