ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e43	The representatives Hilde Magnusson, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold and Susanne Bratli, who have been licensed, have again taken up their seats. The called alternates, for Oslo Lotte Grepp Knutsen, and for Rogaland County Kjell Arvid Svendsen, have taken the seat. A number of permit applications are available: from 5 March to 7 March to take part in meetings of the Interparliamentary Union in New York and Stockholm from the representative of Mette Hanekamhaug on leave from 5 March to 7 March and from the representative of Kari Henriksen on leave from 5 March to 7 March to attend meetings of the Interparliamentary Union in New York from the Group of the Progressive Democrats on leave of the representative Øyvind Vaksdal on days 6 and 7 March to attend meetings of the Interparliamentary Union in Stockholm from the representative of Anne Marit Bjørnface on study leave from 5 March to 7 March from the Højres Group on health leave from the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve from 5 March to 7 March until further from the Arbeiderparti Group on health leave from 5 March to 7 March and from the European Parliamentary Group on health leave from 5 March to 7 March to 7 March, and from the European Parliamentary Parliamentary Group on further from 7 March to 7 March to 7 March to 7 March, and from the European Parliamentary Parliamentary Committee on further from 7 March to 7 March to 7 March from the High Council on health leave from the Commission on health leave from the Commission on health leave from the Commission on health leave from the Commission on health leave from the European Parliament on health leave from 5 to 7 March to 7 March to 7 March to 7 March to 7 March to 7 March to 7 Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the county of Troms, Bjørn Inge Mo, there is an application for exemption from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of representatives Anne Marit Bjørnflapen and Tove Karoline Knutsen, respectively, due to disease. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Other alternates from the state of Troms, Hilde Anita Nyvoll, currently have parental leave and are therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of representatives Anne Marit Bjørnflapen and Tove Karoline Knutsen respectively. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave as follows: For the West-Agder province: Odd Omland Tuesday 5 March For More and Romesdal counties: Torgeir Dahl from 5 March until further notice, and Jon Georg Dale 5–7. March For the county of Nordland: Knut Petter Torgersen Tuesday 5 March For the Rogaland County: Terje Halleland 6 and 7 March For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Sonja Edvardsen 5-7. March For the counties of Troms: Viggo Fossum 5-7. March and from 13 March until further notice, and Eva Ottesen from 6 to 7. March
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e167	Odd Omland, Torgeir Dahl, Jon Georg Dale, Knut Petter Torgersen, Sonja Edvardsen and Viggo Fossum are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e175	The representative, André Oktay Dahl, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e178	On behalf of the representatives of Anders B. Werp, Erna Solberg and myself, I would like to make proposals on ICT in the police, the entry into force of new criminal law, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e183	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e199	On 22 July 2011, Norway was hit by a terrorist incident that was the most widespread violence in Norway in peacetime, and it shook the whole nation. This is how the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee starts its comments on the matter we are dealing with in the Storting today. Eight people were killed as a result of the bomb explosion in the government quarter and 69 — among them very young — people killed in the Ut Island massacre. In addition, many people were injured both physically and mentally. All the relatives have suffered suffering that will take a long time to relieve, and with which they will always have to live. A likely Norwegian man was attacked by the Labour Party and its young people and its democratic institutions to prevent a future similar to the present. Deeds also hit many people directly, regardless of political affiliation. It was an attack on values shared by the Norwegian people, and the grief was shared by all the people. It was with this serious backlog that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs went into the work of the Prime Minister's and Minister of Justice's report on the 22nd July Commission's report on 28 August last year. The majority has been given the opportunity to discuss the 22nd of July events on several occasions. On 10 November 2011, Minister of Justice Knut Storberget and then Minister of Defence Grete Faremo made a statement to the Stortinget on 22 July 2011. It decided on the same day to set up a separate committee to examine the matter further. The Committee's opinion was delivered on 1 March 2012. On 12 August 2011, the Government appointed an independent Commission to review and draw lessons from the events. Lawyer Alexandra Bech Gjørv was assigned to lead the Commission. It was clearly communicated that the Commission would write the 22nd of July history undefiled and honest. The Commission presented its report on 13 August 2012. The Commission presented the following six main conclusions: ‘The attack on the Government Quartet 22/7 could have been prevented by the effective implementation of the security measures already adopted. The ability of authorities to protect human beings on the Verying failed. A faster police action was really possible. The contractor could have stopped earlier 22/7. Several protective and emergency measures to make it difficult to re-attack and reduce the adverse effects should have been implemented on 22/7. The health and rescue work carried out well the damage and the consequences of the emergency phase. The government's communication to the population was good. The ministries had the power to continue their work despite the damage. With a better work methodology and a broader focus, the PST could have come onto the trail by the perpetrator before 22/7. However, the Commission has no grounds to say that the PST could and should have prevented the attacks.» On the basis of this report, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice and Preparedness made a presentation in Stortinget on 28 August 2012. The Prime Minister showed in his statement that the findings of the Commission were serious and that too much failure. Important parts of the preparedness and capacity for crisis management were not good enough when it really applied. The Prime Minister’s statement referred to a central issue in the debate that followed in the coolant of the Commission’s report, namely the responsibilities. What does it mean to have responsibility? What does it mean to take responsibility? He said, ‘The authorities responsible for the preparedness shall be the authorities. That is why I have several times stated: I have the top responsibility. For the emergency response, for the defense, for the health service. I have the top responsibility for what went wrong, and what went well, in the handling on 22 July. Me and the government will take responsibility after July 22nd." The Prime Minister expressed the following regret in his statement to the Stortinget: ‘Three of the Commission’s conclusions are: – The pit hole should have been closed. It wasn't. – The executioner could have stopped earlier. He didn't. – Several security and preparedness measures should have been implemented. It didn't happen. I'm sorry about that." After the presentation, it was decided to send it to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs for further consideration, and I will briefly explain the Committee's proceedings. First of all, I would like to stress that it is the statements by the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice and Security in the Stortinget that have been discussed in the Committee, it is not the Commission's report of 22 July, although it has followed as an important underlying document. In order to gain the knowledge needed by the Committee and to arrive at an adjustment, we have asked for access to a large amount of documentation, including: to the minutes of the formal interviews held on 22 July by the Commission, including: responsible members of the government, with ministerial councils and representatives of underlying agencies. The Commission also decided to send letters with a number of written questions to four Councils. The Committee also carried out an audit of the Government Quartet and the Utøya. The police officer briefed the police on the action taken by the police in the government quarter of 22 July 2011. Representatives from State Building were also present, and the Committee was shown some of the material destructions and sentries. Representatives from the Northern Buskerud Police District and Emergency Team took part in the Ut Island. The Committee was briefed on police action, the contact between the local police and the Emergency Team, how the police had gone to Utjay, the attack on the perpetrator and the further rescue operation and the evacuation of damage. On Utåla we were also met by representatives from AUF. I would like to say for myself that these inspections made a strong impression, and I would always say in retrospect that it was both important and right for us to carry out those inspections. In addition, the Committee has carried out five open investigations. These consultations were based on the following issues: Point 1: What are the reasons for, and who is responsible for, the failure of preparedness in essential areas on 22 July 2011? Why were warnings not taken seriously, and what is the reason for the apparent pulverisation of responsibilities in the field of preparedness and security? Paragraph 2: Why were plans not put in place and established procedures followed on 22 July 2011? How was responsibility exercised, and where can responsibility be placed? Finally, point 3: What has failed in training and management when cultures, attitudes to preparedness and the ability to interact were highlighted as an important reason why much was not working as it was supposed to do on 22 July 2011, and where is the responsibility for this? An overall committee believes that, through the hearings, we have been better informed, and much useful information emerged. At our first hearing, we invited you, among others. representatives of the national support group after 22 July. They gave us more insight into the horrific events, while also reminding us of the need for help it will always be after such events. The relatives also gave us insights into how the follow-up has varied from municipality to municipality, and how the discretionary means that were granted to the states in the follow-up of those affected have varied from state to state. On this basis, the Committee sent questions to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs and the Minister for Health and Welfare on the follow-up to the assistance provided and the allocation of funds. The answers indicate that there are some major differences between municipalities and municipalities and from state to state. It must be possible to assume that the Ministry of Health and Welfare will follow this up. We believe that anyone who still needs help will get it. We would also like to stress the importance of including users in advice so that they can make the best possible use of the help offered. We also invited representatives of the volunteers to the first hearing. I believe it is right that we also today, from this pulpit, extend a great deal of thanks to employees and passers-by who, with their efforts, raised life in the government quarter. This thank you is also directed to volunteers who, at risk of their own lives, mountained many young people on the Ut Island. Without their efforts, the loss rate would be even greater. I will also, on behalf of the Committee, underline the heroic efforts of the AUFs themselves to save their friends, in a situation where they were all in danger of life. There is no doubt that this effort also contributed to the saving of life. Health and rescue workers also delivered them with damage and relatives in the emergency phase in a good way, as the Commission also concludes on 22 July. Now that I am going to present the Committee's position, I would like to draw on a comment made by an overall committee: ‘The Committee is critical that – Grubbegata was not closed more quickly – temporary measures for the closure of Grubbegata were not implemented – the staffing of police operation centres has been too poor – the police helicopter had no emergency response – the national warning system failed – important plans were not implemented and incompletely used – the request for assistance from the Defence Agency came too late – the protection of key buildings such as: The size was late – the police directorate was not sufficiently measured in its work on social security and preparedness – the risk recognition does not seem to have been high enough on the agenda either by political authorities or by the police – the ability to learn from exercises has been too low the Committee would stress that these are serious and critical issues.’ So some words about the security of the government quarter. I would like to point out that the Prime Minister's office in the wake of the US terrorist attack in 2001 took the initiative to review the security of the government. In the autumn of 2002, Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik agreed to launch the Government Security Project. The security project started in 2003 with representatives from various departments, police and defence departments. A commission was given from the Prime Minister's office to the police director. A main report and various interim reports, including a safety analysis of physical and technical security measures in the departments, were further prepared as the hedging project. The main report was delivered to the Prime Minister’s office in June 2004. The Commission's report of 22 July stated that the conclusion was clear: ‘Vulnerability was unacceptable and important measures against various bomb explosions had to be implemented.’ Among the main measures were permanent closure of Grubbegata and the foliage of windows. A number of other measures were also part of the project. When the bomb exploded outside High Block on 22 July 2011, this was a scenario known to the authorities concerned. The interim report entitled ‘Safety analysis of physical and technical security measures in the ministries’ of 10 March 2004 described the consequences of the positioning of a car bomb outside the Højblock. The description was frighteningly similar to the result of the bomb on July 22. The interim report contains nearly 200 measures, one of which was the recommendation to close the Grubbegata, and was one of the top priority measures. When State Building promoted the Plan Initiative in September 2005, it was not asked – as it was then called – by the Ministry of Modernisation to ensure that in dialogue with the Municipality of Oslo the matter was implemented as quickly as possible. Nor was it considered, either at the start of the project or at any later stage, to decide on a State regulatory plan. A government regulatory plan may have a slight reduction in time, even if normal procedures and processes under the Planning and Building Act have to be dealt with there. A timely question will then be whether the law is good enough for this type of regulatory matter, as the Prime Minister also pointed out when he said in the hearing: ‘That is why I repeat that a clear lesson is that municipal regulation plans should not be chosen in such cases — or perhaps even more so: you might want to look for entirely new instruments.’ The mayor of the Municipality of Oslo also asked questions about this in the verification hearing, where he said: ‘I hope that careful consideration is given to whether the Planning and Building Act is a suitable instrument for addressing this type of key security issue, whether we need a different tool in Norway, a different tool than this relatively comprehensive system.’ With regard to the treatment of this regulatory matter by the Municipality of Oslo, I would like to refer to the hearing, where representatives of the Municipality of Oslo explained the way in which the regulatory matter was dealt with. The City Council voted against closure in June 2007, although the plan and building seat had been set on a yes. In view of the controversial nature of the matter and the fact that there was a choice for the autumn, the Urban Development Committee suspended the proceedings until a new committee was set up after the election. Before the discussion, the police director had a meeting with representatives of the Urban Development Committee to stress the importance of closing the Grubbegata. Nevertheless, a majority of the Committee opposed the closure of a meeting in November 2007. It is clear that even something as extraordinary as the police director asked for a meeting seems to affect the committee. Secret issues can be asked to prevent decision-makers from getting the necessary information about the seriousness of the case. A conversation was held both before and after the decision with the Municipality of Oslo in order to reverse the majority, and the necessary understanding of the importance of this measure came into place. But it is worth noting the mayor of Oslo, Stian Berger Røslands, statement in the hearing, in which he expressed: ‘What happened invites you to ask yourself what had happened if the threat and safety assessments had been shared with the municipality at an earlier date than this.’ Closing a center street can be controversial, just as it was when it was about Grubbegata. During the period mentioned, there were also several media lookups that did not recommend closure. However, in such a climate, it is essential to ensure that those who are to take the decisions receive the information they need in order to have the necessary understanding of the action. The regulatory plan was adopted by the City Council in February 2008. The City Council also decided to draw up a zoning plan, a decision that further delayed the project. The political responsibility for the security project lay in the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church, and it is remarkable that FAD did not do what they could to get ahead of the process, as the majority of the committee finds very critical. When the Council of State, Aasrud, in its interview with the 22nd July Commission, states that she was very little away from the implementation of the security project, the same majority believe that the Council of State itself should ensure the progress of such an important project. At the same time, we must also note that a decision on a regulatory plan was taken by the Municipality of Oslo in 2008 and until the spring of 2011 did not take sufficient compensatory measures – while waiting for final closure. This could have been done, but this was neither done nor evaluated. It was not until the spring of 2011 that the sign was ‘no entry’ from the Court of Justice place and entered the Grubbegata and the sign ‘no parking’ in Grubbegata. An overall committee believes that it is critical that no more has been done to establish compensatory physical measures, such as: robust physical barriers in front of the high-block. The Committee is also clear that the responsibility for not doing so lies with the FAD. As regards the hedged project, the Committee considers that despite the fact that the Prime Minister's office on several occasions followed up the hedged project through its contact with the FAD, there is no doubt that the FAD had the final responsibility. The commitment of the SMK was not about taking over the responsibility, but it might seem that that was how it was perceived in the FAD. Here we can refer to the former government council in FAD Heidi Grande Røys who in an interview with the 22nd of July Commission stated that her impression was that SMK owned the project as it was reported there and SMK called for meetings. After recording little progress in the project, the Prime Minister’s office saw the need for a comprehensive review of the project to assess progress, the need for any adjustments in the actions and other priorities. Meetings were held with the FAD, the Ministry of Justice and the Police Directorate in April 2008, where the Directorate of Police was tasked with reviewing the progress of the various measures. One year later, the SMK did not see any outcome of the POD review and therefore repeated the recommendation in March 2009. Only in May 2010 was the final status report issued by POD to the Ministry of Justice, and it described major concerns related to the progress of the closure of Grubbegata. In the event of an error, the report was not sent to the FAD, which led to neither administrative nor political management in the FAD making any changes in the organisation or prioritisation of the work. At their meeting in April 2008, the representatives of the SMK felt that it would no longer be natural for the SMK to follow up the FAD in the implementation of the measures and for the Ministry of Justice to take the further follow-up to the FAD. Thus, SMK closed its temporary intervention that had driven the project through some of the obstacles. As long as the Ministry of Justice did not follow this up, there was no clear driver in the project. Representatives of the Ministry of Justice explained to the Commission on 22 July that they perceived the role of SMK in following up the FAD, at least until they received the letter requesting revision in 2009. In the inspection hearing in Stortinget, it was also found that the Ministry of Justice had not perceived that they were responsible for the further follow-up of the FAD. It must be emphasised that in general, and in projects with a high degree of security in particular, clear governance, follow-up and control by state councils are crucial. The July 22 report and the Committee's audit hearings clearly revealed that these elements were not sufficiently present in the process of closing the Grubbegata. I will now move on to talk about the failure of preparedness, because it has come to light that there was a lot that could have been done differently in view of the preparedness for terrorism both before 22 July 2011 and the very fateful day. It is the Ministry of Justice and Defence that has the overall responsibility for social security and preparedness and the overall management of the police. Unfortunately, there has been a lack of risk recognition at many levels in this work, up to the top level. System failures have been identified due to lack of leadership, exercise, resources and equipment. The facts that have come to the table both through the report of the 22nd July Commission and through the consultation of the Control Committee are painful. It is therefore a paradox that the police's own report, from the Sønderland Committee, could conclude that they could not see that other actions would lead to a better outcome on 22 July. In 2007, PST delivered a threat assessment to the Government Security Committee. Here they concluded that it was more than 50 pst. Norway is likely to experience attempts at terrorist attacks from extreme Islamist groups within three to five years. So the conclusion was that it was more likely than unlikely that we were going to be exposed to terror. It's serious. It is therefore very strange that the Commission report concludes that the government has had a risk understanding but a lack of risk recognition. The PST report should have given a clear indication that preparedness for terrorism should be given priority not only at the theoretical level but also in actual action. Lack of recognition of terror is very serious. It may seem that the police had not learned enough from the preparedness exercise prior to 22 July 2011 to deal satisfactorily with the terrorist action. It should be said that the challenges faced by the police on 22 July 2011 were complex and demanding, but it had been practiced on terror, and the government has to take responsibility for the fact that the police were not in a position to deal with this challenge. The majority of the Committee, all outside the government parties, believe that the consultation of the monitoring body revealed that social security and preparedness have not been adequately prioritised by the current government, which was reflected in the letters of assignment and the policy management of the police. The majority consider it critical that preparedness has been little sought by the sitting government. According to the Commission report, no national alarm was received or registered by any of the relevant police districts this day. It's serious. Economics was an important element when the system was chosen, and the system had not been properly tested before July 22. This is unfortunately far from good enough. In crisis situations, it must be possible to rely on the functioning of the system — it must be helpful, not burdensome. The emergency network was not developed in Nordre Buskerud, which meant that communication between Oslo Police District and Nordre Buskerud Police District was very poor and delayed the arrival in Utøya. The development of the Emergency Network has taken a very long time, and in the current financial year, the government has cut funds for the Emergency Network because the development takes too long. The government must ensure sound and rapid deployment so that the emergency network will not be out of date on the day of its entry into service. In emergency situations, the POD is responsible for supporting the police district(s) concerned with operational responsibility. They have a coordination responsibility and responsibility for situation reporting to the overall authority. The police's own evaluation report revealed that the Oslo police chief had the coordinating responsibility on July 22nd, and not the police director, which the Oslo police chief himself was not aware of. It is clear that unclear role clarifications are unacceptable in a crisis situation and that the allocation of new tasks should not be allocated without making it clearly known to the parties involved. The Commission also concluded on 22 July that there were uncertainties about who actually played the role of police director on 22 July. The hearing also found that the former police director, who was responsible for the POD staff, had no knowledge of which plans were to be implemented in the event of major crises. A Joint Committee underlines the importance of both the police director’s knowledge of the preparedness plan and ensuring that it is implemented in major crisis situations. The staff of the police operating centre is also given attention in this matter. Just after the explosion in the government quarter, tips were called to the police emergency phone with important information about the perpetrator. Due to low manning at the operating centre and high activity, it took about 20 minutes for the operating centre to call back to the witness. The serious thing about this is that if the tip had been handled faster, the perpetrator could have stopped on his way to the Utøya. The staff of the Oslo Police District Operation Centre has been brought up with the Ministry of Justice on several occasions, and it has also been the subject here in Stortinget. The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that no action has been taken by the Ministry to increase staffing. The government has the overall responsibility to ensure that the police have sufficient resources to carry out the job they are assigned to. This has also been the subject of repeated concern in Stortinget, without any improvement in the situation. I see that time is running out of me. There are several things about security and preparedness that should have been pointed out in my post. I expect other representatives to follow this up. I just need to finally say a few words about responsibility. Because when Stortinget talks about responsibility, we know only the government and the individual state council. In our society, power and responsibility are allocated, but the overall responsibility for the country's preparedness lies with the government. The Prime Minister has acknowledged that he has the highest responsibility for this. Former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget pointed out in the hearing five important and correct factors as causes of the failure of 22 July: ‘low level of risk recognition, low level of implementation, lack of ability to coordinate and interact, lack of use of ICT and insufficient management’. He further stated, and this is important: «As the Minister of Justice at that time, I am very sorry about this. I take responsibility for the police's handling of the terrorist attacks in the government quarter and in the Utøya, and for its failure at significant points." The Prime Minister has also deplored the failure, and the Stortinge has two possibilities in this situation: to take note of the complaint and the recognition of responsibility, or to say that this is not good enough and to promote a motion of censure. An overall committee has chosen the first, but nevertheless finds it right to promote criticism. A total mass does it, albeit in a slightly different way. I will prepare for the Christian People's Party's criticism decisions and expect the other parties to prepare for their own. In the past, I referred to a note where a total accumulation lists up the most critical of what failed on July 22. We end this comment by saying that the Committee stresses that these are serious and critical aspects. These are the same words that we use in our criticism decision. So we haven't found any reason to alleviate the criticism, but we haven't found any reason to reinforce it either. I therefore take up the proposal that the Christian People's Party has made in this matter. I would also like to explain that, of course, the Christian People's Party Group will vote first on its own proposal, but that it will substantially support the Government's proposals for decisions. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for the cooperation we have had in this very serious, very demanding matter. I think we have managed to deal with this matter in a dignified and good way, and I am absolutely sure that the debate in the Chamber today will also be marked by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e416	The representative Mr Bekkewold then brought up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e419	The terrorist attack on 22 July was a political attack on the Workers' Party, its youth and its democratic institutions. As all of this has been said by a lot of people, in order to achieve their goal, the perpetrator carried out a bomb attack on the government quarter. There he killed eight innocent employees and passing by before he coldly and cynically set the course for the AUF summer camp on Utøya. There he shot 69 young people, face to face, and we now know that many of them prayed for their lives. This has actually happened, ladies and gentlemen. We recognize it, but it's becoming completely unimaginable. Many were seriously injured, both in the government quarter and on Utøya. Their lives will never be the same either. Norway will never be the same. I agree with what the case rapporteur said: A well-estimated Norwegian young man killed 77 people, injured hundreds, caused great suffering for the survivors and relatives, in order to prevent the future in Norway from resembling the present. That's the same thing in the setting. Today is about Storting's handling of the event, but I would also like to say, here at the beginning of my article, that it is also about thanking. On behalf of the Workers' Party, I would like to thank a group of Norwegian people, who called for our common values, and in that way showed our nation's strength. I would also like to thank the other parties on behalf of the Labour Party here in the Grand Chamber because in this difficult and difficult situation for Norway they stood united for the values that the perpetrator would destroy: democracy, the multicultural community and our equal society. I would also like to thank the volunteers. As our good case rapporteur said, we need to have a strong awareness that volunteer efforts saved many lives in the government quarter, and perhaps especially in the Utöja. They made a heroic effort. Several of them acted directly in dispute – we have been informed – with the police's messages and instructions. The campers and the lodgers saw with their own eyes the need for help and did not hesitate to help, even though they themselves were shooting wheels. The size expresses a clear thanks to these people. I highlight the efforts of the AUF. It was also heroic. Many made an effort to save themselves, but also — in this extremely extreme situation — to help each other. They showed an incredible ability, these young people on Utøya, to empathy and solidarity. Many were also able to provide vital help for the injured. Yes, an experienced policeman said to me on the Utøya inspection: it's amazing, Kolberg, what these young people were able to do in such an extreme situation, and how good they were to help each other. Had they not done so, this had gone a lot, much worse, said this experienced policeman. More wisdom and ability to act rationally cannot be expected of young people. As the committee has been involved in this matter, and as we have seen in all public discussions, we can today say from the public opinion of the Stortingen that the AUF's leadership acted wisely and correctly in an extremely demanding and unbridled situation. The AUF has acted with dignity as an organisation. They have fully supported the judicial process and proved to be strong supporters of democracy, the rule of law and humanism. It is with pleasure that I say that it has also been done by representatives of the other political youth organisations. They have supported the AUF. This gives us every reason for pride in our youth. It gives us every reason to be secure for the future of our democracy. The whole committee is right to celebrate a separate chapter in the setting up of the victims, the survivors and the dependants. The hearing confirms that the health and rescue work carried out them in a good manner during the emergency phase. However, in the follow-up of the municipalities to the damage and the dependants, the variations are large – too large. In addition, it has become clear that responsible authorities in the municipalities are not active enough towards those in need of assistance. Therefore, I would say: through these comments, Stortinget sends a clear signal to all municipalities to follow up the damage, the survivors and the relatives. The size assumes that the Minister of Health and the Minister of Municipalities are doing what is necessary to ensure that this is done in a satisfactory way. A few days after the terrorist action, it became clear that it had been wrong, that it had failed in several areas. But as the 22nd of July Commission also says: ‘Crises are characterised by unforeseeability. misassessments and actions that prove to be unlucky are unavoidable.’» [[...]] Nevertheless, everyone wanted a true answer to what had actually happened to this black Friday in Norwegian history. Therefore, in consultation with the parties on the Stortinget, the government quickly set down a scrutiny commission with Alexandra Bech Gjørv as head, highly qualified members and a very competent secretariat. The Commission’s report was presented on 13 August 2012 and clearly demonstrates the Commission’s qualities. The report is until the cruelly undefiled and honest. It points to serious errors and deficiencies in our preparedness. The Prime Minister therefore addressed the President of the United Kingdom immediately and asked for an account to be made of the report and the work on improved preparedness. It is the statement by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice that we are formally discussing here today, as the case-rapporteur also said. So I would say, the Prime Minister's recognition of the 22nd July Commission's report as a common story is based on an overall control and constitution committee. I'm glad. This demonstrates a common understanding between magnification and government. With a common approach, it is possible for the Committee to draw conclusions on what happened, both what went wrong and what went well. A common story gives the Storting the next round the opportunity to make wise decisions about what to do. The Minister of Justice and Security pointed out some directions for the work that she will shortly be presenting in her own big message. Governments have shown a strong willingness to accept the Commission’s conclusions. The conclusions adopted here today by the Storting will also guide her work on the notification. The most important thing in the Prime Minister’s statement was his regret — that Grubbegata was not closed, that the perpetrator was not stopped before, and that several security and preparedness measures had not been implemented. Like the Prime Minister in his statement, I can say that unfortunately we cannot correct mistakes from the past. But what we can do is we can admit our mistakes. The Prime Minister stressed that. It places the emphasis on the Workers' Party. Together with our government partners, SV and the Central Party, we demonstrate this by making proposals that contain criticism. We recognize the mistakes that the Commission has made on 22 July, we point out that the Prime Minister's regret is correct and historically necessary, and we recognise the government's work to make Norway safer, based on the animal-bought learning from 22 July. Although there are clear disagreements within the committee, I am pleased that there is also a great deal of consensus on many issues. I would like to thank the President-in-Office, Mr Becquerad, for his efforts to create a common platform and, as far as possible, to seek consensus. He has dealt with the matter seriously. The Committee's work, as Mr Becquerad said, has been very thorough, and in our view it has confirmed the main conclusions of the Committee on 22 July on good and bad. We have seen and heard the stories of the heroic efforts of a number of individuals and of the police, rescue services and health sector. But we have also seen that the Commission points to as the most difficult thing to do with: culture and attitudes. A consensus committee just points to the importance of now showing real willingness to learn from the mistakes that have been made. The Committee is far from giving a signal on what is important for the future, even if it is strictly for the consideration of the forthcoming Communication. We do it because the Commission so clearly emphasizes how important this is to the performance of the agencies. It is not primarily about lack of legislation, it is not primarily about lack of resources, organisation or large value choices, as the Commission puts it, but it is about attitudes, about culture, about interaction and about management. When the President and the Prime Minister, we come to the crucial question: how could a culture develop in parts of the state administration and in the police that are obviously lacking? How could that happen? Of course, the answer to that question is not easy. It is therefore essential that the main recommendations of the Commission are now followed up. It is about managers working systematically at all levels of administration to strengthen their own and the organisation's attitudes and culture related to risk recognition, enforcement, interaction, ICT exploitation and performance-oriented leadership. An overall committee believes that this is a work that will take time and require the will to change at all levels. Better interaction, more effective bureaucracy and not least a leadership willing to listen and learn from those in the first line who know where weaknesses and forces are. There is consensus that such leadership has been lacking at both political and administrative levels in several areas. The political level, but also all those parts of the administration that have such a responsibility, is committed to follow up the conclusions drawn on leadership, culture and exercise, in the context of the current situation of the Stortinge. As everyone knows, there are two events on 22 July in particular that have been the subject of a thorough evaluation of the Committee. It's the closure of the Grubbegata and the police's handling of the events especially on the island. The July 22 Commission concludes that Grubbegata should have been closed. The Prime Minister complained in his statement that it was not. The Committee has immediately concluded that the pit hole should have been closed. The Committee notes that inadequate communication within the government apparatus contributed to the ambiguity of responsibility for progress in the process of closing Grubbegata and that the FAD's political leadership is entrusted with constitutional responsibility for the fact that the process took so many years that closure was not completed on 22 July 2011. In the hearing of the Committee, the Council of State, Rigmor Aasrud, confirmed that the closure of Grubbegata was a matter of concern to the ‘FADs and through it – after October 2009 – my responsibility. But in the case of the process, there was a process that was not just under my control." The Committee notes that there are complex reasons why it took a long time to adopt a regulatory plan and to start physical work on the closure of the street. The opposition claims that the government fraction is trying to give Oslo responsibility. That's not right. We, together with the rest of the committee, establish that the responsibility is FADs. Constitutional responsibility is the responsibility of the Council of State. But the Municipality of Oslo also has a responsibility. The fact that competent bodies did not change their opposition to the regulatory plan even after the police director had informed about the terrorist threat is a clear example of this. Of course, it is the constitutional responsibility of the State Council at all times. However, in the opinion of the Labour Party, the State Council of Aasrud could not act differently from what she did when she took over in the FAD. At this stage, the likely State regulatory plan would have delayed the process instead of accelerating it. In this case, the State regulatory plan should have been applied much earlier. So to the failure of the justice and police sector. It is the other matter, which was also made clear in the rapporteur's proposal, which we have gone into most. Former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget pointed to in particular five important and correct factors as a reason for its failure on 22 July, when he replied in the Committee’s hearing: insufficient ability to recognise risks, insufficient ability to implement, insufficient ability to coordinate and interact, lack of use of ICT and inadequate management. He further stated: «As the Minister of Justice at that time, I am very sorry about this. I take responsibility for the police's handling of the terrorist attacks in the government quarter and in the Utøya, and for its failure at significant points." We are pleased that the then Minister of Justice Storberget has publicly acknowledged the responsibility he had as the responsible expert council for the preparedness in the field of justice, and that he has strongly deplored the failure of handling in the department under his constitutional responsibility. It is against this background that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre have chosen to cooperate with the rest of the Committee to promote strong criticism and believe that Knut Storberget's regret is both necessary and correct. The Prime Minister has complained that the preparedness was too poor, and that the police were not able to stop the perpetrator earlier. That Minister of Justice, as I have just said, has, at the very least, deplored the failure to deal with the police case under his constitutional responsibility. That leaves the police department itself. Takes responsibility for it – question mark. Why do I ask that question? I do it because during the hearing it was striking – I repeat the expression strikingly – that there became black evasive from several police representatives on this point. It was also very consistently looked up and given responsibility to the Ministry of Justice and to the Minister of Justice personally for giving unclear signals, too much detail management, too little focus on preparedness. Then I say with the address of everyone in charge of the Norwegian police today: The committee unanimously states that there can be no doubt that the police are responsible for preparedness, as the Stortinget has unequivocally determined – I had almost said a sentence. The Committee is also concerned about whether the police act is a learning organisation. In particular, we point to the police's own evaluation, the so-called Sønderland Committee, where criticism of their own efforts could hardly be detected, and how some representatives – some representatives – of the police also appeared at the hearing with little willingness to recognise their responsibilities. I would therefore like to express my joy today that the new police director, whom I see also here today, recognizes responsibility and clearly shows the will for necessary change. I want to make it clear and clear, and I think I'm doing it on behalf of the whole Stortinget, that it won't be accepted at all because the police don't learn about the events on July 22, the biggest terrorist act and criminal act in Norway's modern history. The disagreement in the suspension is mainly about liability. The central feature of the statements by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice is that they took responsibility – and they were saddened. We believe that it is central both in the presentations and in the issues on which the hearings were based, where the responsibility for what went wrong on 22 July should be placed. It is therefore appropriate to repeat what the Prime Minister said in his statement: ‘The primary responsibility of the Prime Minister does not relieve others of their responsibilities. According to our state practice, the individual Council of State has the constitutional responsibility in its field, within the laws and appropriations given by the Stortinget. The various departments and businesses are responsible. Several departments in both the municipality and the state are responsible for different parts of the emergency response. The Police Directorate is responsible for how the police operate. Health undertakings are responsible for medical preparedness. This must be firm. Otherwise, we are at risk of confusion of responsibility, powdering of responsibilities and confusion." The Government Parties agree with the Prime Minister in the understanding of responsibilities, and that this distribution is crucial in order to avoid responsibilities and ambiguity. In our society, power is distributed and thus also responsibility. A system that does not allocate responsibility does not distribute power either. We believe that there is general dissension about a system in which power and responsibility are distributed. And we think it's a healthy and important principle based on the best in our culture and our tradition, that more people take responsibility. We also believe that the Commission's report of 22 July needs to be based on responsibility. The President of the Commission, Alexandra Bech Gjørv, presented in his introduction to the Commission’s audit report setting out the organisation and the rules for social security. She also pointed to the principle of the distribution of responsibilities associated with this exercise of authority. During the hearing, Bech naturally got a number of questions related to how responsibility for what went wrong on 22 July was to be placed. She was far more nuanced in this matter than the opposition is in its remarks. On the question of the division of responsibilities between the Ministry of Justice and the Police Directorate, Bech Gjørv replied: ‘It is led by the Ministry of Justice, and in that sense it is a failure of political governance. At the same time, we are concerned that the Directorate of Police, and also the individual police districts, have a responsibility to direct towards their mission within their remit, so that you can not just look up.’ As stated in the position and as stated in the public opinion, no proposals for distrust of the government are made. The opposition says in its observations that the reason for this is the Prime Minister's regret. You're referring to constitutional practice. In the general public, it is also pointed out that there is a high level of choice at hand. This case cannot be compared with any other case. This is the worst criminal act since World War II. The Labour Party, SV and the Center Party promote proposals that contain criticism of their own government, but we believe that there is no basis for distrust of the government. It is wise and proper that the opposition has come to the same conclusion. Of course, I would like to stress most strongly that they have – and will take – their political responsibility with political authority and power. In addition, I would like to make it clear that the Stortinget only knows the government and the individual Council in terms of responsibility. But we believe that the government has taken responsibility. The Prime Minister has both stated in his statement and during the verification hearing that the top responsibility is his, and he has clarified the constitutional responsibility of each State Council under our constitution. The state councils responsible for the terrorist attack on 22 July 2011 received criticism. As I have said, the Labour Party, together with the SV and the Centre Party, has promoted criticism decisions against its government. The working party now undertakes to do what is necessary to ensure that the mistakes made on 22 July do not happen again. We don't know where or when the terror will hit – or who will stand behind it. Therefore, I will end by saying that the most important thing now is to implement measures that will enable both society and individuals to meet the future challenges. With the debate we have today, the work of the Control and Constitutional Committee on this matter will be completed. On behalf of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre's party, I address the proposal referred to in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e527	The representative of Kolberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e530	When terror struck Norway on 22 July 2011, no one could really be prepared for what we were exposed to. Nearly the event are those who themselves were directly affected, their relatives and those who put themselves in danger to save others. I will initiate this article on the greatest violence in peacetime by expressing sympathy and respect for those who were directly affected by the incomprehensible. I would like to thank you for the efforts that employees, colleagues, friends and relatives have made, both on the cruel day and in the time after. I would like to thank all those who did the best they could – in the police, the health services, the fire and rescue services, the civil defence and others involved. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister and former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget for the way they stood united and upright during the crisis. There was a lot of work that worked when it quite unimaginably hit us, and especially important was the ability of individuals to take responsibility in an extreme situation. Unfortunately, there was also a lot of failure, and the control matter we are dealing with today must focus primarily on it. Although the criticism is harsh and responsibility is placed, we should always remember them who this matter is really about. We should also remember that only the perpetrator is responsible for the tragedy and that he has now been sentenced to the most severe punishment possible with us. We will deal with two presentations given in Stortinget, with a background in the findings of the Gjørv Commission. The Gjørv Commission was set up by the government — after consulting the parliamentary leaders — shortly after the attack. The work would prove to reveal weaknesses in national security and preparedness that are far more serious than I think anyone could imagine in advance. The size has been briefed by presentations, the work of the 22nd July Committee – the Special Committee – and on this control matter. This control case sets a sort of sentence for investigation and control of it as a failure, but after today much of the work on solving the challenges will remain. Five control hearings and two inspections were held during the Committee's work on the matter. There have been thousands of pages of documentation, and we have had access to much of the ground material on which the Gjørv Commission based its conclusions. The review of that documentation almost surprises me that the criticism in the Commission's report on some points is not even stronger. There has been a clear separation of responsibilities and the absence of management on security and preparedness issues. There are tasks and information that are deprioritised and not communicated to government councils, and there is a fact that government councils have not understood that they are responsible for. It is serious and highly critical. The Prime Minister in Stortinget complained that Grubbegata was not closed on 22 July. The Djørv Commission concludes that it should have been closed. The responsibility for not being closed lies with the former State Council of the Renewal and Administration Department of Heidi Grande Røys, and with the current State Council of Rigmor Aasrud in the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church. The responsibility for not implementing interim measures pending closure lies in the same location. In the media, before the presentation of the Gjørv Commission report, there was a discussion about it really was the municipality of Oslo that was responsible for things taking time. However, the Commission determines that the responsibility lies with FAD. It is also emphasised in the hearings and a unanimous committee places the responsibility in FAD. There has also been a discussion about the government councils in FAD being able to do their job in this area. It is the responsibility of each State Council to ensure a functioning office and information procedures that are necessary and sufficient for the Council of State to do its job. If a person transfers that responsibility to the civil service, a State Council could always avoid liability by failing to be informed. It is not an acceptable interpretation of State Council responsibilities. The Progress Party believes it is the prime minister’s responsibility to ensure that its members of government have the necessary competence and power to ensure themselves the necessary information on important ongoing matters under their own constitutional responsibility. If the Prime Minister is aware that single-country councils lack competence or enforcement, but fail to replace them, the mistakes made by the Council of State will also strike back on the Prime Minister, as the government's chief executive. It will not, of course, change the parliamentary and constitutional frameworks of responsibility. In March 1998, Stortinget adopted the Security Act. The law requires the drawing up of a safety regulation for object protection. 13 years later, this safety regulation entered into force. The Safety Regulation was important to clarify the responsibility for object safety and follow-up of important safety issues. The national safety authority has said that it became more difficult for them to carry out controls under the safety law on protective features in the absence of the regulation. It is highly critical that it took 13 years for the security regulation to be implemented, and it is the various Councils of State in the Ministry of Defence during this period that are responsible for the lack of delivery. It is with the police the most extensive failure was revealed. When the disaster struck, the operation center at Oslo Police District was understaffed and the physical conditions in the staff rooms were very poor. Communication between the operational manager and the response manager failed completely due to the lack of prioritisation of speech in the new emergency network. Mobile calls outside the service line were the solution. Police director Øystein Mæland came to work and pretended little or nothing about the plan. His next commander, Vidar Refvik, with extensive experience and knowledge of the plan, disappeared from the Police Directorate and across to the crisis council, where the other participants in the crisis council realized that he was the police director. Of course, it is serious when the crisis plan is not known to the police director. It is also remarkable that no one in the circle around the police director informed his relatively new boss that there is a plan to be used in this type of crisis — perhaps there is also a sign of the cultural challenge pointed to by the Commission. The low staffing of the Operation Centre was known to the Ministry of Justice without any instructions or measures being attempted. The low manning also made it difficult to act quickly and efficiently as information of vital importance for the case came in the form of a description of the perpetrator, clothing and vehicle with registration number. In this context, I would like briefly to mention that the crew at the operation centre of the Northern Buskerud police district was also critically low. There, the low manning led to serious communication problems and to misunderstandings about the site of the emergency team when they arrived in Buskerud. I'll come back to other relationships around the Northern Buskerud police district later. In Oslo, it became early clear that police access to resources would not extend to an unbridled situation, where new estimates could be made. The police reserve was assessed but rejected as an alternative. The background was that police management was not familiar with the actual competence of the police reserve. It appears in retrospect to be very surprising and critical. If the police reserve cannot be used in this type of situation, a question has to be asked what it is intended to be used for at all. An assessment of the future of the police reserve as a strengthening resource is necessary, and it is also necessary for the Storting to be involved in such a process. The fact that, in a crisis situation, we find that the national alert system is not working is also serious. This system was initially criticised by the police's data and material service, and despite the criticism, the system was neither repaired nor tested. Vital information that should have been sent early, was sent and in practice never arrived at the recipients in the relevant time. It's hard to understand that this kind of failure can happen at all. The Progress Party believes that this is highly critical. The Progress Party has also recorded that this fatal day took place in two specific cases at Asker and Bærum Police District. The Operation Commander orders two patrols to interrupt the ongoing mission, one of which was an unpriority transport mission to a prison in Oslo. In spite of the order, the patrol began its journey towards the terror-torn capital. The Progress Party has great confidence in each police officer and woman’s ability to assess specific situations. However, we believe that there is a clear prerequisite for the police to function optimally in this type of situation, that it relates to orders and routes of service in such a crisis. We have noticed that the Minister of Justice and Security believes that there is not a general problem with police order in such circumstances, but in Asker and Bærum it failed this day. This means that one has to look at management challenges in the establishment with the widest possible starting point. The Gjørv Commission’s report also revealed that police personnel are the largest when the service is least needed. So, when the risk of events is lowest, most policemen are at work. It is very critical that the government has not done anything to ensure a police district crew where there is a better match between service staff at work and the risk of incidents. This could be contributed by the government in negotiations on pay and working conditions for the police and through its overall responsibility to ensure optimal use of resources in the department. It is also necessary to comment on the political down-priority of helicopter standby. It was a political choice until the day of terror to build down the police helicopter service to a completely different level from that foreseen by the Stortinge when the service was set up. This had major consequences. The responsibility lies with the former Minister of Justice, and it is very critical that the government has not ensured that the helicopter service has had full emergency coverage. It has also taken disproportionate time to ensure a proper police helicopter service, but we have recently been told that this should be in place. The police security service has also received some criticism from the Gjørv Commission, and perhaps the work could have been carried out in a very general way with a broader overview than was the case. At the same time, as a legal state, we should be able to ensure a balance between monitoring and privacy. The answer to all challenges is not more monitoring and new methods and weakening the real foundations of the rule of law. At the same time, one must recognise that the PST resources have not been in line with the expectations we have had for them, and even with today’s possibilities for monitoring, investigation and registration, the resources have not been extended. Although it is pointed out that the appropriations for the PST have increased in recent years, the fact that the majority of these healthy resources have gone to improve the lifeguard service due to the new threat picture is being skipped. Competence and resources to do what PST needs to do in order to have a reasonable overview of potential threats to Norwegian society should be a cross-political priority. The Progress Party believes that it is a step forward before such cross-political agreement can be reached. The police could ask for assistance from the Defense in situations where their own resources did not go. It was clear from the very beginning that there wouldn't be enough policemen to run the guard and secure at safe havens. Nevertheless, it took seven and a half hours before the police officer Anstein Grangedal asked for the defense's assistance in security and security. There were several potential threats to security features, and the police were unable to deal with all of them. It is very critical that the chief of police did not ask the defense to help guard and secure almost immediately after the first incident. The party fears that there has been too little understanding of the police management of the resources that the defence can actually contribute to in a crisis situation. It's said that this should be better today, but I'm not sure if that's actually the case. I would now like to say a few words about the Northern Buskerud Police District – by first praising members of the District Emergency Service. They are also told by the Gjørv Commission to put in place a feasible plan that would probably result in a faster arrival in the island. It is worth noting that it was a shame that there were service staff from the emergency unit available even if they were not on duty on the day in question, and that they acted quickly in order to contribute. It's a cross of thought that there's no watch system for the extraction unit. It is with great regret that I cannot express similar confidence in the local management of the Northern Buskerud police district. The chief of police has explained to both the Gjørv Commission and in the hearing that she did not take any particular leadership during the crisis, but walked around and ‘listened’ to get information about what happened. She was also not very familiar with the plan that was to be implemented. We can criticise Chief Sissel Hammer for this, but it is important to stress that it is a political responsibility to ensure that police officers are able to do the important job that we expect of them. It is the Ministry of Justice and former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget who has the primary responsibility for the failure of the police on the fateful day of 2011. I also think there is reason to point out that the information given to Stortinget should be correct. In the setting, there is some disagreement as to whether the information provided by the Stortinget has been correct in terms of the resource situation in the police. So I want to start with the story that most of us have witnessed in the media in the years prior to the terrorist attack. We have seen a Minister of Justice who has proudly highlighted the police as one of the most important areas of activity for the current government. In newspapers, on television and in this room, the insurance of a modern, well-equipped police force with several officials and women in operational service has been ready. We have therefore had reason to believe that the state of the police has been quite good. When terror hit Norway, this picture changed dramatically. One can therefore question whether the information provided by Stortinget has been good enough under Minister of Justice Storberget. This applies both to the situation in the ordinary police and to the situation in the PST. The police officer in Oslo has announced in the media that the number of policemen in the streets of Oslo is the same as it was ten years ago. That's not the impression we've been presented in this room. On Friday last week, the Directorate for Administration and ICT presented an evaluation report which concludes that the Directorate of Police does not meet the objectives set in the setting up of the Directorate and that this is partly the responsibility of the POD and partly of the Ministry of Justice. There were great expectations for the Police Directorate, and the evaluation questions whether it has at all been possible to meet these expectations with the framework conditions and the space for action that POD has had. It is also a political responsibility in this case. The defense was not really put on a sample on July 22nd. Nevertheless, there are three relationships around the defense I want to mention. The first is that the closure of HV-016 helped to weaken the defense's ability to assist the police in serious crises throughout the country. In Oslo, HV-02 was able to mobilize relatively much power in a short time. If terror had hit elsewhere in the country, the situation would probably be different. The second is that despite the fact that the defence was not put on any particular test, there were significant deficiencies in the ability of the Home Guard to access quickly the weapons, ammunition, protective equipment and means of transport. Logistics failed. The third is that after the work of the 22nd July Committee on Defence in this Chamber and in this House on how the Marine Hunter Command – MJK – can have a role in national preparedness, the defence mission cannot result in MJK being dropped. This is not at all the starting point for the discussion on how MJK can have a role similar to that of the Special Command of the Defence Agency in all or part of the national preparedness. I want to clarify this from the pulpit, because I'm familiar with some processes going on right now. I would therefore like to quote what the Stortinget has said about this in the vote after the work of the 22nd July committee: ‘The Committee will ask the Government to assess the capacities MJK can contribute as a strategic resource in national crisis management in a manner similar to the role of the FSK today’.» It's far from any aggregational acceptance. The Committee hereby finds that: ‘The management of the government, the Prime Minister, who has the overall responsibility for Norway’s co-operation and good preparedness to ensure the security of its inhabitants’. The Prime Minister acknowledged this responsibility for the Storting and regretted in this Chamber that: ‘The pit hole was not closed, the perpetrator was not stopped earlier and several protective and emergency measures were not taken’. Former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget left shortly after the terrorist attack. In the open hearing of the verification of the case, Storberget was extremely sorry and took responsibility for the police's handling of the terrorist attacks in the government quarter and on the Utøya, and for it as a failure at significant points. He also took responsibility for the lack of ICT efforts in the police. However, I have noticed that, as far as I have seen, the Council of State Aasrud, who is responsible for the lack of closure of Grubbegata along with its predecessors, has not brought any corresponding complaint to Stortinget. She gets her occasion during the debate today, and I expect it to come. If you're going to learn wrong, it's a prerequisite that you're able to admit that it was done wrong. The police's own evaluation, also known as the Sønderland report, gave a clear impression that the police could not do so much differently when the terror hit us. The Progress Party believes that the Gjørv Commission report and the presentations made for the Storting conclude differently. When the intruder who first arrived at the government quarter after the bomb explosion said that it was just clicking on the very largest button, nothing happened on the receiving side – perhaps because there was no, or there was, a big button to press. It is unacceptable for a country that has known for many years that it has been a potential target of terrorism. It is unacceptable for a country that should have learned from what has hit our allies. We are now waiting for a big message about action and follow-up after the terrorist attack. There will be an important political discussion about how we will in the future learn from the mistakes and lack of treatment in this setting. In the Single European Act, a number of measures are likely to be considered. I want to record three that I think are important, without me making policies in this debate. I think it is relevant, because there are recordings we have received during the committee's examination of the matter. The first is an assessment of the use of expanding ammunition where the perpetrator is among civilians. Today, this is a serious problem, for example. in the case of school shootings or terror in which the terrorist himself is in a crowd, that the police will hit more than the perpetrator in the event of shooting. The second is to equip the call-out units with the possibility of using more powerful firearms. Today the standard equipment is MP5, and on one of our inspections we were told that it is little to deal with well-equipped terrorists. The third is the GPS marking of all available rescue and emergency equipment across the emergency exits. 22 July is the story of the resources that did not find each other, said the Gjørv Commission. It's a relatively simple and little expensive way to solve it. Other measures I am sure that Stortinget will be happy to help when the processing of the forthcoming Storing Message starts. I refer to the comments made by the Progress Party and the Right in the vote on responsibility. There is also a review of the significance of responsibility in the parliamentary context since World War II. I am not going to go into it so far, but I would like to stress that the motion put forward by the Group of the Progressive Democrats, the Right and the Left together in the vote is a very strong criticism – a so-called provocative proposal – which one must characterise as being hacked under mistrust. Of course, the background to the proposal is so strong that we believe it has failed in such essential respects that the Storting should have a strong response to this. I take this up with me the proposal from the Party of Advances, the Right and the Left. However, there is reason to believe that this proposal falls today. Therefore, I would like to say a little about how I recommend the Progress Party to vote subsidiaryly. This is an extraordinary matter, and it has shaped an entire nation. It will still characterize us, and it is important for the Progress Party that the very special case also gets a final line that can be respected in a historical perspective. The government parties have gone to the extraordinary step of proposing a critical decision against their own government. The criticism proposal criticises the authorities, which for all practical purposes in this matter is the government. In substance, the first paragraph of the proposal broadly covers the same thing as the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left, but with slightly less criticism. Second, there is a proper and historically necessary complaint from the Prime Minister. It is well in line with Storting’s practical relationship with complaints from Heads of Government in the past. In the third paragraph, Stortinget acknowledges the complaint and the efforts to make Norway safer. ‘Recognition’ refers to an equivalent relationship in which one strives to understand the perspective of the other. That makes sense. On this basis, I would like to ask the Progress Party to contribute to the fact that the Storting can today do something quite exceptional and unanimously gather for a critical decision against the government. It is a completely exceptional and difficult case, which also deserves such a worthy final line in Stortinget. I therefore recommend that the representatives of the Progress Party vote against the proposal of the Christian People's Party, for the proposal of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left and for the subsidiary of the proposal of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e632	The representative Anundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e635	It's a serious hindrance in this matter -- a lot of human grief and pain. The gravity of the case has also marked the consideration of the Storting and the Committee. Formally, this is a final line for the Committee on Control's work on the matter, but I want to add: the act of terrorism will never be forgotten. It rests over us. Today’s attitude includes a very strong criticism of the current government and of the government. It is based on the presentation to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice in Stortinget. The Prime Minister, in his statement in Stortinget, showed that the findings of the Commission were serious and that a great deal of failure. Important parts of the preparedness and capacity for crisis management were not good enough when it really applied. The reason for this is that the basic conditions of preparedness failed. The plans were made, but they were not implemented. The ability to learn lessons from exercises was too small, as well as attitudes to preparedness and interaction. The parties stress the Prime Minister's regret in his proposal. This regret seems that the Right was a matter of course, the matter being taken into account. Nevertheless, our conclusion is that there is no basis for mistrust in the matter. It is largely due to the fact that the Prime Minister himself has complained to the Stortinget of several facts from the Commission's conclusions in his statement from the Parliamentary Chair. As far as I can see, it's not withheld information. If there had not been such a complaint, or if we had been able to detect a lack of information, there would be reason to promote distrust. In this context, I particularly want to comment on what was said in Martin Kolberg's articles. He did a great deal of describing the delegation that has always been the case within the administration, that not government and government do everything, but that responsibility has been delegated. Of course, I fully agree with that. But that doesn't mean that constitutional responsibility is weakened by government and state councils. He quoted the Gjørv Commission, which has pointed to failure all over the line – mostly. I just remind you that the mandate of the Gjørv Commission was not to place constitutional responsibility, but it is the responsibility of the Stortinge. That is why we have dealt with the matter differently from the Yard Commission. In the setting, the government parties follow our criticism far on the way. But there's an important difference in vocabulary. We are talking – as has been mentioned in several articles – about the responsibility of the government. In this context, the word ‘authorities’ used by the government parties is a dilution. This shows a trend that has emerged several times in the media and in the hearings of the Control Committee – that government councils and central red-green politicians have tried to protect their own. They have placed responsibility elsewhere, in the administration apparatus, than with the politicians whose responsibilities are legitimate. This is important to say in a major handling of the matter. Also the newspaper’s editor, Arne Strand, writes in an article on February 20: ‘The alarming fact is that the government parties with Ap at their head follow the criticisms of the opposition parties well along the way. In Ap’s proposal for a critical decision in Stortinget, the ‘authorities’ are the addressees of the criticism. Right, Frp, Left, and KrF give the receiver its right name, which is the government. In practice, it means Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg and the responsible state councils.’ This case is unique in many ways. It is rare for an overall control and constitution committee to express strong criticism. Despite some nuances in the formulations, there is broad consensus in the Committee on several issues. The Committee has said that the following facts are highly critical: that the police districts concerned did not receive national alerts; that the police chief in Oslo did not request enforcement assistance for security immediately after it was clear that the explosion in the government quarter was due to a bomb. The Monitoring Committee has also said that the failure of the judiciary sector's preparedness is highly critical and that the complaint to the then Minister of Justice, Knut Storberget, was both necessary and important. This relationship was also highlighted in a comment by Arne Strand in The Daily Newspaper of February 23. That's what it says. ‘Those who call for consequences for persons should know that Knut Storberget had to leave if he was still Minister of Justice. The Committee is ruthless in its criticism of the former Minister of Justice.’ I'm adding for myself that I'm joining this perception. There are several aspects that a joint committee believes are critical, including: also that Grubbegata was not closed before, and that the staff at the police operating centres has been too poor. We all agree on this. As Head of the Gjørv Commission Alexandra Bech Gjørv so aptly said in his summary: ‘The ability to coordinate and interact has been inadequate.’ This is largely about the resources that were not found. The Committee also criticises the fact that the police had not taken sufficient lessons from the preparedness exercise prior to 22 July in order to deal adequately with the terrorist action. The question is, has this improved so far? I think, among other things: in recent months, such as Practice Tyr and the request for assistance from the police to the defence at the opening of the Storting. There's reason to doubt this. Furthermore, an overall committee criticises that the overall responsibility for terrorist preparedness issues attached to the Minister of Justice was not adequately followed up, in particular in the light of the 2007 PST report, which was previously mentioned in the debate. For me, it is almost unreal that many years ago a threat picture had been given through a PST report, but that this was not followed up further. You could, for example: have set up at least robust barriers on its own land, outside the government quarter. But this was not done. It was not assessed at any time either. With regard to the police's poor ICT systems, this is also something that has been known to the government for a long time. The fact that the Ministry of Justice has done nothing more to advance the development of ICT in the police and criminal justice chain is a problem that the Department is well aware of. This is the basis for criticism by an overall committee. It was also criticised that the Police Directorate chose a national warning system that was not reliable and was not sound. The Committee has also noted with amazement that the former police director was not involved in the determination of the warning system to be put in place. There were also no communication procedures in place between the police districts using the emergency network and the police districts using analogue links. This is a serious failure, which the Committee also criticises. On 22 July the Ministry of Justice departed from planning and established procedures, including: by not establishing crisis management and staff in line with current crisis management plans. In addition, this was poorly communicated and created confusion about the organisation and crisis management of the department. It is clear to me and the rest of the committee that the risk recognition does not seem to have been high enough on the agenda, either at the political authorities or at the police. The right, together with an overall opposition, has found that the following factors also point to strong criticism: a combined combination of low-priority preparedness, low-priority ICT bet and poor target management. We find that the government does not have the ability to prioritize which issues are important in the preparedness effort. We see that the focus has been on target management, but there have been too many targets, too many targets. The fact that the government has been targeted at wrong criteria has made it impossible to see the important objectives and separate them from the less important ones. That is why we have no ability to protect our citizens. It is important to point out that preparedness has been little on the agenda of this government’s work before 22 July 2011. We have also seen that follow-up work has slowed down in the police sector, especially in the period before the Commission's report of 22 July. What we see is that the police reserve in recent years has been down-prioritized, and that this has happened without sufficient information for the Storting. It is also frightening that government parties are trying to present it as if the PST has over time been given substantial increased resources to conduct preventive investigations and intelligence when we know that a very large proportion of the real growth that has been introduced to the PST since 2005 has actually been increasing the staffing of the PST bodyguard service. The Committee has also given particular attention to the role of the Police Directorate in monitoring hearings. It's not an impressive image that's left behind. A recent report by the Directorate for Administration and ICT, a diffi report, stresses that much remains to be done. The July 22th case has woken us up. It has revealed problems with government governance. Fear culture and non-implementation are left with the impression after the hearings and after reading the reports. This culture needs to change, and it needs to be replaced by something better. The hearings also give the following impression that administrative policy is not considered to be important and politically interesting, and that the Ministry of Renewal, Administrative and Church Affairs has little professional weight. The Prime Minister concluded his statement by saying that we have obligations to make Norway safer. It is the prime minister's responsibility to ensure that the government councils have the necessary competence to do the important job they are assigned to. If the Prime Minister has reason to doubt the executive power of a Council of State or the perception of his or her own responsibilities, it is the prime minister's duty to replace him or her. The right, together with the Left and the Progressive Party, has promoted the following criticisms: ‘The size of the population believes it is highly critical that, prior to and during the acts of terrorism on 22 July 2011, the government did not take sufficient action to ensure that society and the state were able to protect their citizens.’ It is my recommendation that the Right-wing Representatives vote in favour of this proposal. If I had said that, I would almost say, against assumption, and I would say, against assumption, because that is in line with the position of the committee, I would recommend the Right Members to vote in favour of the proposals of the government parties. It contains some ambiguity, but nevertheless a critical clarity. I would like to add that the expression ‘recognition’ of the work done to follow up that it does not happen again is not a valuable expression. You cannot acknowledge a big message you have barely seen, although I understand that it has gone into print and will soon come to the Storting, but it is a recognition that the work is at least done. It's not a recognition of a result that we don't know. But I believe, like the previous speaker, Anders Anundsen of the Progress Party, that it is important that the Stortinget can gather in a critical decision on the basis of everything written in this setting, and that responsibility is also placed with the authorities, which is the Norwegian Government at the top.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e707	There is a constructive opposition that we are now listening to – after the last two speakers. I want to say that it is very constructive and will lead to us now coming out as a mass mass, as it sounds – there are some speakers left – and I think that is very good for the follow-up to this case. As quite rightly pointed out, the government party is also very clear in its criticism of the government in this matter. Then it's very good that we now gather around that criticism and get a consensus decision. I would also like to thank the case manager. The mood that one has in the upper house – in the control committee – has often been bad, but in this case she has been very good. The case-speaker has focused on cooperating with all parties and trying to find compromises. It's been very good. It makes it unnecessary for me to go into all the matters of time, but I can choose some. The mass murder on July 22, 2011, made us a nation of relatives. We were subjected to a left-hand attack, of course, especially at the Labour Party and the AUF Youth. It was an attack on democracy, yes, an armed attack on our unarmed democracy. Many of us would like to reverse the clock, but we know that it is not possible. Many lack one or more family members – a son, a daughter, a wife or a husband – from Utøja or then bomb small in the government quarter. Many survived, but may have injuries that can follow them throughout their lives. In this respect, it is important to praise the support group in this matter. They've done an amazing job. It is very important that there be a most successful result in such a demanding case as this. The question is no longer whether this could have been avoided, but what we have learned and what we should do to prevent this from happening again. There was a lot of work in the hours after the mass murder. The health staff did an amazing job. The volunteer efforts that many people have made were impressive, not least at Utøya. We must not forget the AUF's whole-hearted efforts either. So a lot doesn't work. There were many things that didn't work, and it had to be improved and corrected. And to take a little bit of it that it didn't work in defense: the July 22 event was such a grotesque and surrealistic event that anyone could think that anything like that could happen? It was completely impossible to understand – and is still almost impossible to understand. As many people have been involved, the case spokesman too, I would like to praise the Gjørv Commission – July 22nd. There are many good answers, but there are also grounds for new questions. In addition, we had five hearings over five days that illuminated the Gjørv report and the presentation to the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister. The Committee, as many have said, has been on sight both in the government quarter and in the Utøya. It made a very strong impression – including myself. The Prime Minister has taken on the responsibility for a major failure on 22 July 2011. But the Prime Minister also assumed a crazy responsibility in the situation that arose after July 22. The Rose Sea on July 25, 2011 and the important and active words hit us. The nation was promised more openness and more democracy. Now we must not forget that the nation expects more openness and more democracy. There must not only be a question of helicopter, preparedness, arms and money for the police, but also of more openness and more democracy. One of the areas where SV is very happy is related to the criticism of PST. We've had the Traavik report, which clearly told us that there's a lot that doesn't work here. When you look at what PST has done, there's no doubt that they've been following religiously motivated terrorists, but the question is whether they've been following properly on the right. We on the left have been claiming for quite a long time that one has been most interested in the left side. We also saw an example in a previous focus application. That's a fundamental question. After I was a member of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, responsible for the security services, visited the PST in 2009, I went straight to my parliamentary leader and said that the PST is not where they should be – they are on another planet, and they hang too much in the old war. So it was in 2009. But now we've got a new lease in PST, Marie Benedicte Bjørnland. She seems to have started well, but there is a lot of work left. The Traavik report says that the PST has neglected within organisational, leadership and competence development. PST gets criticism for lack of internal coordination, a cling to technology and, in particular, is not up-to-date on the threat picture. So here's the potential for improvement, and I'm assuming that when the message comes from Faremo, not least PST is a central element. The Djørv Commission also demonstrated an overbureau cratisation that one has pulverised responsibility. We call it New Public Management, but we would like to use other words, that one gets some kind of zero error culture, where it becomes more important not to make mistakes than to do something, maybe. This must be cleaned up. The government party is all about this, but it has multiple governments. We are clear in our remarks and point out the rigid target management with extensive quantitative targets, how the target achievement is linked to a pruning system – that's not what we should have more, we should have less of it, because it leads to more bureaucracy and a comprehensive supervisory system. We're going to build down this zero error culture that might have been something for the reason that it was like a paralysis of action like it was on July 22nd. The Government Party is also very clear that we need to focus more on quality and less on quantity that can be measured. I was five days in the police one summer, and the problem is that one sees that there is a lot that can be measured, but the big things can't be measured and put into a form. Then you might have an error priority that you might not have thought about, because you have a measuring system like that. So we're going to work to get rid of this, and we're going to have to add it to make the measurements more qualitative. As I said, and as everyone has been in it, on 22 July, a major failure in the work on social security across various levels revealed. A joint committee believes that the government must now assess the creation of a national centre of expertise for risk awareness and social security. It is already known that the University of Stavanger sits on this competence, so it may be relatively easy to create such a center, but the government will come back to it. Many failed this summer day 2011. The Committee is behind a criticism that encroaches on the government, the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Justice, the PST and the police. The government party has, and sheep, joined forces behind a proposal that criticises the government. Now it is important that we use all these precious experiences we have to improve and become a better country to live and live in, a more open and democratic country, to which the Prime Minister stressed. It's about getting a PST that's able to keep an eye on what actually poses a threat. It is about having public sector governance that actually saw quality first, that leads to better services and less bureaucracy, and that involves adding them. It is about finding solutions that promote more openness and more democracy. And it's also, finally, about more knowledge and competence about what needs to be done. There is something done, but much needs to be done to avoid similar events again. The government is busy. We're about to get a message about the problems SV's been trying to deal with in the tragic 22nd of July.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e747	On 22 July 2011, 77 innocent people were killed, and many, many more injured physically and mentally in Norway’s largest terrorist act after World War II. Once again, my thoughts and our thoughts go to family and friends of the dead, and the many who have lasting physical and mental but after a terrorist's terrible actions face to face with young people praying for their lives. It hurts all of us, and invisibly hurts those who are directly affected. The relatives carry the greatest stock in everyday life. The pain is totally unreal. The cancellation will today sum up everything that has been inadequate, incorrect and missing. For those who have lost their loved ones, new messages, contingency plans and management culture are scarce. It's too late. These people have paid the highest price for what has been revealed. However, as one of the relatives said to me, the most important thing in the future is that other residents do not experience similar failures, shortcomings and collapses in our preparedness. The majority is currently examining the position of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee on the presentation by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice and Preparedness at the meeting of the Stortinget on 28 August 2012 on the follow-up of the government to the report of the 22nd July Commission. The 22nd July Commission, with Alexandra Bech Gjørv as leader, worked for one year. The report is available in NOW 2012:14. It is thorough and concrete, serious and revealing. The report has given us a common sense of reality. This common understanding of reality accepted by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice and Security also forms the basis of an overall Committee of Control and Constitution. Today’s deliberations and comments from the government parties in the vote will provide the decisive basis for government announcements of the overall response to terrorism. In his statement on 28 August last year, the Prime Minister referred the Commission's main findings to the Commission's own words. The three most serious were: The attack on the Government Quartet on 22 July could have been prevented by the effective implementation of already adopted security measures. The ability of authorities to protect human beings on the Verying failed. A faster police action was really possible. The builder could have stopped before July 22nd. Several precautionary and emergency measures to make it difficult to re-attack and reduce the adverse effects should have been implemented on 22 July. The Prime Minister said in his statement that too much failure, and that important parts of our preparedness and capacity for crisis management were not good enough when it really happened. The parliamentary leader of the Central Party, Lars Peder Breck, who was the Council of State on 22 July 2011, said clearly in Stortinget on 28 August last year: ‘[...] I’ve decided to use this opportunity, after reading the report, to say straight out: I’m sorry. We've failed." The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has, in the present setting, entered into and deepened the failure and what happened at all points we have had an overview of. There has been a common recognition, seafaring, with all parties that facts should be presented as a basis for discussion and improvement. Several speakers before me have described in detail the course of events and what actually failed, which I can thus only join. Before addressing the main content of the position of the Control and Constitutional Committee, which is constitutional responsibility, management and preparedness, I would like to stress the need for continuous preventive political work through democratic, open debate for all opinions in society, in order to prevent such acts of terrorism from groups or individuals. I would like to underline the work of ensuring the security of the Arab economic, social and cultural relations between all the peoples of Norway, not least in the labour and business sectors. I would like to underline the mutual respect for different opinions promoted by legal democratic instruments, and I would like to stress zero tolerance in the use of violence to promote groups or the political objectives of individuals. From historical experience, we know that this preventive, democratic work is not sufficient for groups and individuals who accept violence and terror in order to advance their goals. Therefore, there is a need for an effective, democratically anchored police security service and intelligence service. It is essential that these two services have broad confidence in civil society and have the best possible continuous overview of the environments and individuals expressing their ability to use violence in their work. As far as constitutional responsibility is concerned, I would say that a core of this case is the relationship between the Storing and the Government, that is. how the Storting will react to the role of executive before, during and after 22 July. Overall, there is a clear criticism of the government here. In the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the proposal of the Centre Party, the following are formulated as: ‘The situation is critical that, prior to and during the acts of terrorism on 22 July 2011, the authorities did not sufficiently implement additional security and preparedness measures that could prevent the acts of terrorism and protect people in the government quarter and on Utøya.’ So it's a total mass expressing a clear criticism. For the future reaction of the Great Britain, it should be essential that the Prime Minister: clearly stated that it is the government that has the top responsibility for policy-making and action-making, including in the areas covered here, that has so unequivocally deplored the obvious failure and the shortcomings identified in connection with the tragedy of 22 July 2011 and that he has done so in the Stortinget. The parties to the Government set out in their proposal for a decision that the Prime Minister’s complaint was both ‘true and historically necessary’. The Prime Minister has removed the need for the Stortinget to impose sanctions on the government with his unequivocal regret and his management of the government's follow-up work in order to make Norway safer. With this, the Prime Minister has provided the Stortinget with the basis to have confidence that the government will master the challenges we face, and take action to implement realistic solutions. The opposition parties The Progress Party, the Right and the Left mark with their proposal even more strongly the criticism of the government by saying that ‘it is highly critical that the government had not sufficiently implemented measures prior to and during the terrorist acts on 22 July 2011 which enabled society and the state to protect its citizens’. It is with amazement that we are witnessing that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left do not follow up their strong criticism with a motion of censure. These parties are clearly aware that this is appropriate for amazement, as they consider it necessary to state why they do not promote mistrust proposals, but a so-called date proposal or criticism proposal, which they exemplify by the Storting's criticism decision against the Minister of Food and Trade in 2004 for his management of the sale of the shares of SND Invest AS and against the Minister of Defence in 2005 that the Riksrevision, with its notes, did not approve the defence accounts for 2003. It is amazing that the three parties equate these two cases with this case, with the 22nd of July. Why are the three parties relinquishing to make a motion of censure? There has been no clear answer to that. However, the chairman and representative of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs of the Party for Progress has made it publicly clear – as reproduced on No. No. No. 6 February 2013 – that the perspective of enlargement is already in the autumn and that it is desirable for the voters to say their words has been given considerable emphasis. A reasonable understanding is that these three opposition parties are promoting strong criticism of government in such an important matter, but they do not want to be distrustful – they are evading their responsibility as opposition parties. They choose to try to get criticism of the government to last as long as possible. They discharge their responsibilities as opposition parties in Parliament and turn the matter into an account of what they can earn in the forthcoming election campaign. The most central area of the setting is the content of the term ‘management’. In its statement of 28 August 2012, the Prime Minister said: ‘Where it failed, it was primarily due to the basic condition.’ Following the assessment of the Centre Party, this was best summarised by the Prime Minister in the following opinion: ‘The problem is not primarily a lack of resources, legislation or organisation, but cultures, attitudes towards preparedness and the ability to interact.’ The Central Party has noticed that the Prime Minister does not refer to an unculture that needs to disappear, but to the fundamental need for change in management culture and of how management is exercised. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this recognition and this fundamental change is the most important thing that can come out of today's debate. In the event of future accidents and terror, the ability of our response agencies and volunteers to act resolutely and properly is crucial in the first few minutes – after an accident or terror. The 22nd July Commission points out the direction of what needs to be done: ‘Trading 22/7 identifies the need for many types of change: in planning and regulation, in the disposal of competences and resources, in organisational culture, priorities and focus, yes, even in society’s attitudes. Some of these amendments may be adopted by an authority. It is the simplest changes to make, if only the political will is there. Other and more fundamental changes – in attitudes, leadership and culture – need to be developed over time.’ And on the other hand, ‘The main recommendation of the Commission is that managers at all levels of administration are systematically working to strengthen their own and the organisations’ basic attitudes and culture related to – risk recognition, – capacity for implementation, – interaction, –... and – performance-oriented leadership.’ Our common response to this must be to choose leaders who have natural authority among their employees, while changing the inefficient and costly management culture that has evolved over a long, long period of time. There is good learning in organisations with authoritative people at all stages – yes, this is experience, good learning. A management culture cannot be adopted, but a new approach to management can be adopted and taken into account by the government and the Prime Minister in the work on the forthcoming communication on a strategy against terrorism. The core of this basic view of management is found in the comments of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre, which point to ‘management is neither unambiguous as a concept nor as a practice’. Further: ‘Management refers to interaction between people where some act and by their actions affect the behaviour of others — some leaders and others are led. There are certain relationships between people, but what is also understood as good management depends on the values desired, the tasks to be solved and the type of situation in which management must take place. In public organisations, for example, in administrative bodies where rule of law values have a high priority, where laws and rules are to be followed and decision-making options are given mainly, good management is required other than in a police organisation to act in the first line under a terrorist attack or in an organisation to save lives under crisis conditions such as fire and major accidents. Similarly, the overall strategic authority level of good management is different from that of the operational level.’» As the 22nd July Commission highlights, the management and effort that was made in the first line – and I will underline, in the first line – were several places, for example. by intervention leaders in the government quarter, by particularly skilled medical teams and other personnel at Oslo University Hospital, at Oslo Medical Centre and at Ringerijke Hospital – a modest local hospital that received nearly half of those injured, as well as by the volunteers, especially on Utøya – crucial for the absence of a worse outcome of the terrorist attack. A key point of learning, therefore, is that the management exercised in the situation, in this case where the terrorist attack took place, is crucial. The members of the Government Party have noticed that, in order to cope with crises as best as possible, the Defence has since 1995 designed and introduced a new decentralised management philosophy, called mission-based management, to ensure precisely initiative, creativity, ownership of the tasks, sense of responsibility and thus a collective commitment. The aim is for the person or working group of persons with the best understanding of the situation to recognize the importance of, to practice, to act maritimely, but in line with the intention of the overall level, i.e. common understanding of reality. It is essential and very demanding, and managers are required to understand the content and depth of this mission-based management. Crisis situations are extreme and are often characterised by fear, chaos, uncertainty and paralysis. The members of the Governments of the Committee consider that there is training to be able to take initiatives and to be able to act maritimely in new, unforeseeable and unforeseeable situations which are essential for the best possible response to civil crisis situations as well as terrorist acts. Such management principles must therefore also apply to medical and ambulance services, fire and rescue services, individual police districts and local hospitals, adapted to the specific nature of these facilities. The Government Parties to the Committees will finally stress the importance of the need for the management of these bodies to gain access to and make use of the experience and assessments of their staff. The first line of mission must be given authority, trust and encouragement to use its competence. The first line must have had enough people spread all over our long-range territory. At the same time, the people of the first line must be trained to ensure the safety of the performance of demanding tasks, equipment that is modern to perform the tasks, and it is necessary to ensure that the individual communicates with his or her working group so that tasks can be handled as efficiently as possible. It is for all these emergency organisations that a decentralised, localised management is needed that can realise the overall level of intention.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e869	22 July has marked Norway and will always be a mark we bear in the future. At the same time, I will express my deep compassion for everyone who was struck that day. When the worst in human beings becomes visible to us, the best also comes out in many other people around us. It did it that day, with everyone who stood up for each other. Sense of many of those who have been responsible for the things that went wrong that day, failed, the great community around us was much stronger than political decisions. There were also more who would contribute with their expertise than those who were allowed that day. I would also like to thank the Committee for a demanding job, for the conclusion of the committee position that is currently on the Stortinge table for consideration, that is a recognition of the job that the Gjørv Commission did. No questions are asked about the conclusions of the Gjørv Commission in the review of the control committee. That commission was important primarily because it was so honest. All national disasters should be faced with honesty, with openness, with the desire to turn every stone sail if what we find under it can be unpleasant. Today I am speaking no. 7th@item: inlistbox That means I'm not going to repeat many of the weaknesses that others have pointed out and that I support. I just want to raise some important points. The trust in important institutions in us is not based on their never making mistakes, but on their being open and honest, and on their being able to handle the mistakes they have made. I have to say that trust in the Norwegian police would have been greater if they had been able to provide a self-evaluation that would have been considerably more honest than the first one we got. A great deal of post-rationalisation and little transparency about your own faults do not help to create trust when you have made mistakes. Turning a culture is difficult, but extremely important. What we experienced in the hearings was a lack of understanding, a great degree of counterfeiting and a little learning culture. It is a huge challenge for the Minister of Justice. I have to say that the hearings were good, but disappointing in one area: one felt that responsibility was being pushed up and down into the system, away from where the sea was set. It says something about culture, it says something about leadership, yeah, it might say something about what's at the heart of the problem when such things occur, that's how we lead this country. It also weakens confidence when it took so long to get documents and questioning. I have to say that I am amazed that documents have the secret stamping «extremely secret», and it turns out that there are only a few sentences that are exposed when we get it to read through. There is transparency here, and many of the arguments for secrecy have little confidence in retrospect. We see that it was ground for substituting arguments, and that many arguments are weakened when you get the whole document lying in front of you. The overall question raised in our consultation was whether the political system today has a major focus on taking the right decisions, but a small focus on management and implementation. In my first question to the Prime Minister during the hearing, I asked if it was possible to define the difference in leadership and decision-making. It was not a question the Prime Minister wanted to answer. We are very good at making decisions in this room. We adopt a lot of right things, but we're not as good at making sure that it's directed and implemented. That challenge is very visible in this matter. We have had an ever-increasing discussion that more and more targets have been set for the police, more and more decisions to be implemented by our police. When the Bondevik II government presented its police role report, which was dealt with in this Chamber in 2006, four important tasks were defined. One of the four was ready. There should be no doubt that preparedness and security for such cases that we were exposed to here should be one of the most important tasks for the police. It was at least clearly established in the police role message. So some comments about Grubbegata: I am glad that today it has been established that that responsibility is not in the municipality of Oslo. Today you have the opportunity to close the streets you think it is important to shut down security. That authority is with the person who must have the authority, namely the person who has knowledge of what is dangerous and of what should be closed. It is not that we regulate Norwegian safety with the Planning and Building Act. The Planning and Building Act is not designed for that. Those who are set to make decisions on the basis of it have no background knowledge to do so. It is clear that the responsibility lies solely with the Council of State. I would like to quote from the setting - at a unanimous point - where the committee writes: ‘The Committee would stress that a Council of State has a separate responsibility to obtain the necessary information and to seek progress on matters. This was not done. The Committee agrees with the Commission's assessment on 22 July that none of the FADs followed up or controlled the project in such a way that the project management had the necessary implementing power to meet the problems and obstacles which subsequently arose.’;» That is a strong unanimous remark. I think that after reading it, we know clearly where the responsibility lies. And I support the representative, Anundsen, who also expects the Council of State, Aasrud, to respond to that challenge in this matter. The Prime Minister said wise words after we had been subjected to the terrorist act. He spoke of more openness, more democracy, sail if he also underlined that we should not be naive. In a democracy, security and freedom are two forces that must always be weighed against each other. We're going to be under pressure in many areas in the future. I think we've seen good trends here, and we've seen bad trends. The urgent treatment of mental health law by the government was a bad trend. One was willing to throw general principles of law overboard to expedite a law, where we could have confidence that a wise court with wise professionals will make the right decisions based on what is meant in this Chamber. We also need the same when discussing weapons use. I think it is important to have a listening attitude to the police's wishes about how they can make the job their best possible. I'm also willing to join and discuss what types of ammunition it is right for our police to have, but going all the way to a general armament of the Norwegian police as an answer to this, I think I have so many negative features that it's a release that I don't want to be part of. Then I want to comment on the cooperation between police and defence. All that happened on July 22nd is that we have a culture where assistance is something you shouldn't ask for. I think we can confirm that. In retrospect, it has also been found that there is uncertainty in the law, and the Council of State has, according to questions from me, said that this should be cleaned up by getting a new law. That's what I think is important and correct. It should be clear what is the responsibility of the police, what is the responsibility of the defence, and in what cases one should use each other's resources. We have to assume that we are an incredibly large country with incredibly few people. Then we also have to be able to drag our resources together, but it has to be done in the right way, so that we have done our law in order when it does. The lessons of July 22 should make us clean up that relationship, but there should also be greater trust between the police and the defense as to what you can use each other for. I also have some comments about the role of PST. I am very pleased that the open threat assessment we now received had a much more nuanced view of extremism than what we have seen in the past. We went into July 22 with a clear sentence in the open threat assessment that the chance of violence from the far right was gone. We got the same sentence the following year. So the lesson had not slipped in. Now I'm very happy that the open threat assessment takes much more into account that extremism and distorted notions about our society can arise in all the different environments, and that we must have a PST taking over. So finally to the vote. I would like to support both Foss and Anundsen’s interpretations of the proposal behind the vote and the explanation attached to today’s decision. We in the Left also want a vote to be put to the vote, in which we can vote in favour of the proposals of the government parties here in this Chamber. Then I would like to point out one thing: the concept of ‘authority’ in this room has no interpretation for me other than ‘government’. There's no other authority we know from this hall, except the government. And then we want a strong criticism – unanimous – from this government that it will be up to the government to interpret. Former Minister of Justice Odd Einar Dørum has often said that when you have such a responsibility as this. Being a Minister of Justice, you'll have to think about it for at least five minutes every week, all the worst possible. You don't have to think about it all the time, because that makes you crazy. But you should always think about it at regular intervals, because otherwise you'll never be prepared. We can never be completely safe and completely free. The balance of liberal democracy is fighting for exactly the right balance between security and freedom. But if you are responsible for security, you have to take that responsibility by being prepared that everything else, the worst of all, can happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e910	July 22, 2011 will forever stand carved into the nation's history as one of our darkest days. 77 innocent people were killed, many strangled for life, in the ruthless attempt to encroach on our fundamental values. This is a serious feature of the thorough and serious work of the Control and Constitutional Committee on the matter. The Committee has consulted key stakeholders, including: the chairperson of the 22nd July Commission, representatives of the national support groups, the volunteers and over 30 current and former politicians, officials and officials. The decision of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee confirms the image taken by the 22nd July Commission on the basis of the statements made by the Minister of Justice and Defence and me to the Stortinget last August. With some nuances, the committee has joined in describing what worked, and what went wrong. In relation to expressing criticism of the government, the parties separate layers. The setting contains three different formulations. However, I can see that the core of the criticism is consistent with what I said in the statement, which was the basis of my complaint in Stortinget. This is reinforced by the fact that the opposition parties in the debate have announced that they will vote in a subsidiary way in favour of the Government Party's proposal for a decision. For this reason, we can today conclude that a single political Norway has a common understanding of reality and a common assessment of 22 July 2011. It's a force for Norway. That's why today we can set a worthy political sentence for the part of July 22 that's about looking back. The political debate can now focus on how to be better equipped in the future. I am pleased that the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is also concerned about looking forward to: ‘The Committee considers it essential that the experience, evaluations and proposals for actions following the terrorist attack be carefully reviewed and evaluated. It is necessary to learn both from the mistakes made and from what worked." I share the Committee's views and invite Stortinget to cooperate closely on this important task. At the same time, it is necessary to stress that the government has acted completely since the attack almost two years ago. We have not waited for measures to increase preparedness. Let me mention four areas: culture and management, coordination of resources, up-to-date intelligence and better equipment. We are doing well with the first and most important recommendation of the 22nd July Commission: a fundamental strengthening of culture and attitudes to preparedness of leaders at all levels of government. We've started at the top – with ourselves. The government is now holding regular meetings on preparedness, and I have met all the top leaders in the state with the same message: readiness should be kept high on the agenda. At the same time, I acknowledge that this will take time. Changing attitudes – building a new culture – cannot be adopted. It has to be worked out, targeted and with tough will. And we have to be prepared for setbacks. Weaknesses and improvement points will be identified through both exercises and real events. As the Committee points out, it is our responsibility to ensure that lessons are learned from this so that weaknesses can be corrected. The second point is the coordination of resources. In the autumn of 2011, we carried out a significant strengthening of the coordination and driving role of the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The Ministry has introduced increased resources, the organisation has changed and the name has changed to clarify the extended responsibilities. Furthermore, we carry out exercises and other measures to coordinate police and defence. 22 July 2011 became the history of the resources that did not exist. The aim is for future crises to become the stories of the resources that find each other. Point three is intelligence. We have strengthened the budgets of the police security service, the PST, and the cooperation between the PST, the Defence Intelligence and other agencies is developing step by step. Last month, the PST, the Defence Intelligence Service and the National Safety Authority, NSM, presented a joint open assessment of the threat picture in Norway. This is an important step towards strengthening intelligence in the fight against terrorism. The next step is to create a common counter-terrorist centre. The centre shall be managed by the PST and shall have a Vice-Chairman from the E service. It shall cooperate closely with the national safety authority and other public bodies. The aim is to get the fullest possible assessment of the threat picture in Norway. The fourth area we're dealing with is better equipment. In this area, we do a lot, let me mention three important examples: we've strengthened helicopter preparedness, we're building graduated connections and emergency networks all over the country, and we've started working with a new emergency centre in Oslo. All of this is action to make Norway safer. However, there is no guarantee against terrorism. Nor have countries that have lived with threats of terror for decades been able to protect themselves 100 pst. We've seen that in New York, London and Madrid. Terrorism is blind. On 16 January of this year we were again exposed to terrorism. Five Northmen were killed, several were injured and many were subjected to extreme stresses when terrorists stormed the In Amenas plant in Algeria. At home in Norway the relatives and colleagues in Statoil were in fear. Their suffering is a reminder to all of us of the importance of fighting terrorism. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is carrying out an evaluation of the handling of the attack by the Norwegian authorities. The preliminary impression is that much worked as it should, not least that the resources found each other this time. In a short time, the government will present a big message on the follow-up to the Commission’s 22nd July report. It is an invitation to the United Kingdom on how to improve preparedness and increase safety in Norway. The Government will present the follow-up to the 31 recommendations of the 22nd July Commission and to the follow-up to the decision of the Storting after the 22nd July Committee has been set up. In line with the wishes of the Stortinget, the government will present an overall plan to prevent and manage terrorist attacks in Norway. The strategy will include five objectives. The government will: prevent radicalisation and violent extremism working together internationally to prevent and combat terrorism and to detect acts of terrorism before giving them the chance to protect society and make it well equipped to deal with terrorist attacks in the best possible way; Our security authorities warn that politically motivated violence can pose a threat to Norway and Norwegian interests in the future. We're going to take that very seriously, and we're going to work on it to prevent it. However, we must not forget the basics: Norway is a safe country to live in. We have – and should have – the freedom to say what we want, and live what we want. At the same time, Norway is part of a world where terror is part of reality. We've also had threatening situations, familiar and unknown, that we've had to meet. Therefore, the answer will always be a balance between transparency and security. One hundred pst. safe land will be a closed, blocked and closed country. We don't want to live like that. We need to learn to balance openness and security, and we need to learn to accept the dilemma of Norway being a safe country, but not an invulnerable society. We should never forget who the terror really strikes – the victims, those who lose their lives, those who get hurt, those who have to live on without their loved ones, and those who are brutally robbed of security. We saw it on July 22nd. We saw it again in In Amenas. That's why we have to do our best not to do it again. Finally, as a nation, we will never forget July 22, 2011. We must prevent extremism. We're going to get rusty to ward off terror. We're going to make Norway safer. It's our duty, and that's our responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e982	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e985	In line changes, it often makes you talk past each other. So let me make it a little simpler and ask three concrete questions that can be answered yes or no to: Does the Prime Minister agree that the Gjørv Commission should not discharge its political responsibility? Does he agree that the location of political responsibility is a natural part of Storting's control function? Perhaps a little too obvious a question, but there has been some confusion about it: Does he agree that the government of Norway is the country's top authority?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e996	The government is the country's top authority, and I have expressed that for several times by that reason I take the top responsibility. It is the Storting that exercises control over the administration, and it is that the Gjørv Commission was given a comprehensive mandate in which they were to give what we called a raw and honest description of what worked, and what did not work. They have also submitted their assessments of responsibility and how responsibility has been managed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1001	I tried with a question to the Prime Minister in the open hearing, which I hope the Prime Minister may have been given some thought, and that he might want to answer it now. It is a word very well associated with the word that Per-Christian Foss has lifted, which is what is being discussed in such a type of control case, namely that the word «responsibility» is linked to the word «management». When we had a hearing, many people told us about all the provisions that were made, all the decisions that were taken, all the principles that were promised to follow them. But the management and responsibility for what is actually adopted is implemented, was very rarely lifted, so I try again: what is the difference between deciding and leading?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1008	I believe that there is a very close relationship between determining and leading, and both are important. Decisions should be taken, and decisions should also be managed and implemented. That's why the government in all its follow-up of 22 July has focused on leadership, on management culture and risk understanding, and on making sure that we take seriously the most important recommendation of the 22nd July Commission, namely that this is a management responsibility. It's about strengthening leadership at all levels to make sure that we strengthen preparedness. It was a main message in my statement to the Stortinget last August, it has been the main message from the Minister of Justice and Defence, and it is the main message in my main post here today. So I don't see any difference between deciding – deciding – and leading. It's two sides of the same thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1017	I am pleased that the Prime Minister recognised the basics: that the government is the country's top authority. It is essential, because what seems to be the decision of this process today is a criticism by the authorities. I just want to be clear that the Prime Minister sees it as a clear and clear criticism from the Storting of the government's handling of this. That is why there is also another question I intend to ask. In the round following the Prime Minister's statement, which is the basis for the matter we are dealing with today, we discussed the question: Why was the failure so obvious? One thing is that much of the review has clarified what actually failed, but almost all of the points it failed were points that were known in public in advance. All the areas had been submitted to the government in advance. Then my question to the Prime Minister is: does he now have a conclusion as to why it failed in areas where the weaknesses were known?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1026	I'm glad, as I also said in my post, that it now seems to be a total increase that joins the reality description given by the Gjørv Commission, which the government has given in its statements to the Stortinget, and which also joins in the assessments given by the government to the Stortinget. The fact that a unanimous increase now joins in the critical assessments expressed by the government in Stortinget, I believe is a strength for Norway. It is a strength in itself that we have a common story, a common sense of reality, and it is a strength for Norway that we gather on the assessments and recommendations made by the Gjørv Commission and presented by the government to the Stortinget. In a short time, we will present a flashback with further follow-up measures on 22 July. It will not least deal with the main problem: the lack of understanding of preparedness and security was revealed at many levels.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1033	I am pleased that the Prime Minister confirms that the government is the top management of the authorities, and that a decision which in words here refers to the authorities will really affect the government. I think that's neat and done right. I want to encourage the Prime Minister – in the light of the statements he has made to the Storting, in the light of the weaknesses revealed by the Gjørv Commission – to say to the Stortinge: If we were hit by something similar tomorrow, would we be better equipped to deal with such an event then?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1040	There are several areas where preparedness has been strengthened. I referred to three important areas in my post. It is about coordination, management – not least from the top, by the Ministry of Justice and Defence. I pointed out significant investments in equipment, ranging from police helicopters to better communication, and I referred to, among other things. better intelligence. In these areas, and in other areas, there has been a significant increase in preparedness. But as I also underlined, even communities that have lived with terror for decades, and that have significantly more physical security and intelligence measures than what we have in Norway, are unable to protect themselves 100 pst. against terror. We saw that in New York, we saw that in Madrid, and we saw that in London. We must constantly convey a message about: Yes, preparedness is strengthened, yes, Norway is a safe country, but no, Norway is not invulnerable, and yes, there may be new attacks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1048	Martin Kolberg used an expression when the Gjørv Commission report was presented – that they read about what had happened in all their cruelty. I think it was the right quote. The Prime Minister is about to complete, on behalf of the Government, together with his government councils, a magnificence report on the follow-up to the Gjørv Commission. But I will challenge the Prime Minister to answer the following question: When the Prime Minister received the Commission's report, what was it he himself noticed that made the greatest impression on him, as to what failed before and during July 22nd?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1055	As I have pointed out to Stortinget earlier, the failure in preparedness was more extensive than what I was prepared for. I guess that's what I noticed most in that report. The second, as I have also stressed several times before, is that what is the most important assessment and the most important recommendation, is that coordination, management and risk recognition failed at many levels and that it is an area where it takes time. It's about money, it's about equipment, but the most important thing that failed was the lack of ability to use the resources you had. We're in the process of doing something about it, but a better culture is something you can't adopt. It's about developing over time. This is also why I brought criticism and regret to the Stortinget when I made my statement in August, and I am glad that the Stortinget now joins in the assessments and also the criticism of what did not work on 22 July, in line with what both the Gjørv Commission and the government themselves have expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1062	The cord shift has thus been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1065	Now more than a year and a half have passed since the cruel and incomprehensible terrorist attacks hit the government quarter and the Utøya. Our society has gradually returned to a more normalized state, but still events characterize us all. The survivors, the relatives, and everyone else involved, are still hurting, and we feel with them. Last August, the report of the 22nd July Commission was presented. It was, as it was asked, honest and unpainted. As the Prime Minister said in the November hearing, the report will be our common story on July 22 – about what worked in terms of preparedness, what failed, and what did not work at all. Formally, the Stortinget does not have the Commission’s own report for consideration today, but the statements by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice of August on the follow-up of the Commission’s report by the government. But, of course, the report has been a very important basis for the work of the Control Committee and the Stortingen on the matter. The July 22 Commission has six main conclusions. The three most serious and painful are: ‘The attack on the Government Quartet 22/7 could have been prevented by the effective implementation of the security measures already adopted’. ‘The ability of the authorities to protect the people of the Outlying Failure. A faster police action was really possible. The builder could have stopped earlier 22/7.» «More protective and emergency measures to prevent further attacks and reduce adverse effects should have been implemented 22/7.» This is very serious. At the same time, it is necessary to recall that much of the rescue operation on 22 July has received legal recognition. The fire and rescue services, the ambulance service, hospitals and health professionals made a formidable and life-saving effort in the government quarter and on Utøya. The emergency force and the ordinary police also made a significant lifesaving effort, both in the government quarter and when they finally arrived in the Utöja. Many volunteers contributed to lifesaving and rescue, both in the government quarter and on Ut Island. Then we should not forget all those AUFs who, with their own lives, helped save many comrades from the cruel nightmare on the Utöa. The Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has done a very thorough job on the 22nd of July. It has, among other things, arranged five full days with hearings, visited and asked many questions to the Prime Minister and the relevant Councils. In the position of the Committee, there are several matters that are legitimately criticised. A unanimous control committee believes, among other things, that: it is critical that Grubbegata was not closed more quickly, that the staff of the police operating centres has been too poor, that the police helicopter had not prepared, that the national warning system did not function, that important planning was not implemented and was incompletely used, that the request for assistance from the Defence Agency was too late, and that the risk recognition does not appear to have been high enough on the agenda either by political authorities or by the police. This is a serious and critical matter. At the same time, the July 22 Commission points out that the failure of 22 July is more about management, interaction, culture and attitudes than about lack of resources, the need for new legislation and organisation and large value choices. This is important to take it further. Better interaction, management and culture are essential elements for creating a strengthened preparedness and crisis management in Norway in the future. The report of the 22nd July of the Commission has a separate section entitled ‘Un Found Resources’. It contains descriptions of different effort units that did not find each other in time, that did not stick to the plan and that did not communicate well enough. It had fatal consequences for the Utja Island police operation. It is a serious failure as described in the Commission’s report. Important parts of Norwegian preparedness and crisis management failed as it was the most important. The Prime Minister has regretted that no more security and preparedness measures were taken, that the perpetrator was not stopped before, and that Grubbegata was not closed. This complaint was correct and historically necessary. The top political responsibility for what went wrong, and what went well on July 22, is the government's and the government's responsible councils. In the hearing on 26 November 2012, the Prime Minister said: ‘That is why I will once again state that the top responsibility is mine.’ And... ‘It is my responsibility that the government functions and takes the necessary decisions, that responsibility for matters is clearly and clearly shared between the Councils, and that the Councils of State cooperate.’ The Prime Minister has taken responsibility. It is also important to remember that responsibilities exist at several levels. Responsibility has been delegated. Governments have a constitutional responsibility for their departments and agencies. At the same time, leaders in the Police Directorate, in the Health Service and in the Defence Department are responsible for their offices' tasks in line with plans and objectives. Police officers and other police officers in our 27 police districts have a separate responsibility for good preparedness and crisis management in their police district. It must be firm, even in the future. If not, we will risk ambiguity and responsibilities powdering. So to the question of the Biggest Criticism Decision. All parties promote proposals for critical decisions in the vote, but, as the rapporteur said in the introduction, this is done in different ways. It is unusual that government parties also promote criticisms, but this matter is both special and serious. There were many issues and systems that didn't work on July 22nd. The opposition comes with criticism from the government. It does not, however, promote mistrust towards the government. I think it is positive that the opposition has fallen on this conclusion. I also think it is constructive that a total mass seems to be behind the proposal that the red-green parties have promoted. On several previous occasions, the majority discussed and dealt with the events on 22 July. Former Minister of Justice and Minister of Defence made presentations to the United Kingdom on 10 November 2011, the Special Committee of the United Kingdom on 1 March 2012, and last August, just after the submission of the 22nd July Commission report, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice made presentations to the United Kingdom. Today’s debate sets out a certain point for Storting’s handling of the events themselves on 22 July 2011. The forthcoming notification of the follow-up to the Commission’s report shall be forward-looking. It shall focus on systems, structures and cultures, which will be better adapted in the future, so that, in future crises and possible estimates, we are better equipped as a society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1130	Of course, the terrorist acts of 22 July 2011 strongly affected all of us, not just those directly affected, but those of the whole of Norway as a nation. In addition to all those who were in the midst of the tragedy in the form of being at work as police, firemen, ambulance personnel, doctors and nurses, civilians also made a heroic effort as rescuers. I would like to take the opportunity again to praise both the Royal House and the Prime Minister for the way they stood up when the terror struck us. The media's description of Jens Stoltenberg was undoubtedly in place, and the Prime Minister should be commended for that. Unfortunately, in the wake of atrocities more than a year and a half ago, serious weaknesses in Norway’s systems and guidelines for protecting and caring for the population in an emergency have been identified. Governments, departments, senior officials, police and others have been severely criticised in the media and from different disciplines. This criticism is underlined in the position we are dealing with today – not least by relatives of killed and injured people who expressed bitterness and anger to the authorities, which they believe did not do their job well enough on 22 July. But it wasn't just July 22nd that failed. The criticism that has come after the events in the government quarter and the Utøya shows that it has failed at a much earlier time. Lack of prioritisation over time made these errors possible. ‘I take responsibility by being seated’, Prime Minister Stoltenberg repeated to the media. Then, almost two years after this cruel act, you can ask yourself what the Prime Minister and the government have done to show that they have taken responsibility. There's only one man who's guilty of what happened. Nevertheless, it must not lead us to believe that the government and the states could not do more to ensure the security of the inhabitants. A number of reports prove later that action should be taken differently, both on 22 July and in the run-up to the event. So it's always easy to be watchful afterwards. This does not mean, however, that we should not be able to sit down and look at the mistakes and shortcomings that have been made and develop new plans and guidelines to ensure that what is most important in a society, namely that people feel safe, is better. Unfortunately, the investigations show that the confidence in the police is on the way down, and as police coverage goes down, so is the situation. Former Minister of Justice Storberget had a vision of two police officers per thousand inhabitants by 2020. Now it seems, softly said, to be a challenging goal. Unfortunately, the terror that struck us shows that it is possible to commit such cruel acts in Norway. A recent threat assessment by the PST shows that it is not unlikely that anything similar can happen again. So we have to be honest with ourselves: it can happen again. No matter how we rust, we can't be certain that it will never happen again. Still, we have to do everything we can to prevent it. So what has the government done almost two years after July 22nd? I'm sorry, too little. We hear about investigations, plans and objectives, but in practice there has been little concrete progress. Practice Tyr, the threat of terror at last fall's solemn expansion opening, police and defence cooperation problems with regard to the use of helicopters, the police manning situation and some challenges between the police and the Ministry of Justice are examples of where it continues to fail, and the list is unfortunately much longer. I do not miss the government's initiative on proposals for improvements, but I miss and ask for concrete actions. The promises of a more robust police force, better ICT solutions and more accompaniment seem to be a long way away from being fulfilled. A few days ago, the discouraging report of the Directorate of Administration and ICT also came, which strongly criticises both the Directorate of Police and the Ministry of Justice. There's good reason to take this in the highest seriousness, not only through innovation and planning, but through actual action. The July 22 Commission had six clear main conclusions. Some of them were very serious, including that the attack on the government quarter could have been prevented, and that the authorities' ability to protect people on the Utja River failed. They also concluded that several protective and emergency measures should have been implemented on 22 July. In other words, Norway was not well prepared and important parts of emergency and crisis management did not work. It is critical that Grubbegata was not shut down more quickly, that the staffing of police operation centres has been too poor, that the police helicopter had not prepared, that the national warning system did not function, that important plans were not implemented, that the request for assistance from the Defence Agency came too late, that the security of central buildings came late, that the Police Directorate was not well enough measured in his work, that there has not been high enough risk recognition either by political authorities or by the police, and that the ability to learn from exercises has been too small. However, one of the main underlying reasons why the government failed to protect its citizens on 22 July was the lack of a culture of risk recognition, enforcement and interaction. Lack of culture and leadership may be the biggest challenge we now face, as well as concrete operational measures, investments and legislative decisions. The Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has done a very thorough job with this setting. I am pleased that all parties are united on the main points of this very serious matter and that there is an overall increase in criticism of the government's handling. Then I was not reassured by the exchange of lines between the committee leader Anders Anundsen and the prime minister on the question of whether the Prime Minister believes that the nation is now better secured if a new attack should occur in the future. It underlines the importance of the big message that the government has announced soon. Then we'll see if the government has plans to operate, clean up faults and deficiencies, take action regarding the lack of investment and remaining law decisions that have been missing for many, many years. This treatment will be important in order to ensure future security in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1165	We're approaching the end of the very first part of the discussion around July 22. The verdict has fallen on the perpetrator, we have carried out the investigation work, and the Stortinget is now closing the discussion of the statement based on the Commission's report of 22 July and the government's presentation to the Stortinget. We should do that as a reminder that this was the biggest terrorist act that has happened in Norwegian soil since World War II, with many victims and relatives of victims who still live with injuries, experiences and in a difficult situation in the light of what happened. It has been important for us to ensure that this is done in respect of the relatives, and that it is done in compliance with the requirement of the relatives to hear that the Norwegian authorities take seriously all that has failed on 22 July. I think the conclusions of the Gjørv Commission were stronger for all of us than what we had expected, in particular the two conclusions that said that the attack on the government quarter of July 22 could have been prevented by the effective implementation of the already adopted security measures, and that the authorities' ability to protect the people of the Outlying failed. We know that had things worked the way you might have thought the device would work, at least the number of people killed and injured would have been significantly lower. It's the seriousness of dealing with a case like this, it's neither political games, elections nor other issues, but it's respect that we as a magnificence have a control function to be exercised against those who have been chosen to be the executive and their authority to carry it out. That is what we have done in the setting that has come. The attitude involves criticism, strong criticism, by the authorities and the government. But when we have chosen not to transfer the strong criticism to a motion of censure, it is in respect of the fact that mistrust is largely promoted when one does not feel that those to whom one is distrusted, regrets and understands that there have been serious errors. We accept that the Prime Minister has regretted and seen that the authorities, including his own government, have made serious mistakes that have led to Norway being poorly protected. Then the question is no longer there, in our opinion, whether it is a mistrust, then the question would have been whether there has been gross lack of authority – and it is not a step that we had taken. When we considered the first round of this – before it was transferred to the Control and Constitutional Committee – my comments echoed the warning from PST in 2007. It was so that in 2007 the PST said it was more than 50 pst. the likelihood that Norway would experience an attempt at a terrorist attack in three to five years. My question was, what did the government do with that information? It was an information, an alert, given to the government in their crisis council. The conclusion is simple: they did too little. Why, is still an inexplicable question. But it's probably a lot of that that you didn't take in – it didn't go into the stomach region or the spinal cord feeling – that this was actually so overhanging. It was maybe this protection faith we've had about Norwegian society: we're a little lucky -- we're not going to experience that kind of thing. If not, I would have foreseen much greater activity than the government showed after receiving such advice. Yes, a little more money was allocated to the PST, but the main emphasis was on securing central politicians through the bodyguard service, not following up all the holes that had systematically been shown through exercises, in reports and questions from the Storting, which are also reflected in the report of the Control and Constitutional Committee. The operating centre had problems with the handling when many called, there was too little management focus, there were problems with the national alarm, connection exercises that were too bad – nothing was unknown, but there was no one who grabbed enough hold of this and said this was serious. Vulnerability was known and pointed out. It was pointed both from the authorities and down, and upward towards the government, and it was pointed out by questions in the Stortinget. It asks the basic question: have we moved on, and how do we get on? This is about learning, culture and sense of responsibility. It's about being concerned with the issues that don't necessarily give media headlines every day, but actually prevent the major tragedies. It's like politicians being ridden by a media-dominated everyday life. But if you are chosen to lead the country, it is actually also the responsibility to ensure that a number of things do not contribute to media lookups, simply because they are solved in advance. This lesson was also a little difficult for me when I heard the question from the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee at the hearings, because what was referred to as liability powderisation from the 22nd July Commission seemed to me to be repeated in the hearings. There was almost no limit to people who had held responsible positions – wherever – pointing out that other people than them were responsible. I believe that the most important thing we do in the future is to clarify the responsibilities of all leaders – from the head of government down – in a much clearer way than before, because we cannot live with a culture where it is easiest to find someone else who should take responsibility. You have to fill that hole yourself, as you're actually employed or chosen to do. Much needs to be done in terms of investment: ICT systems, training, training, cooperation between defence and police. All of this we're going to get back to. But the question of management culture is neither big business nor what we can easily decide to be different. Leadership is something we have to exercise every single day, and we have to make sure to reverse the evolution of a society where it has become too easy to show that someone else is responsible, rather than putting up himself. I believe that this must be a common priority – regardless of political background – to reintroduce more fully into our society. Then one becomes more concerned with solving the failure, rather than explaining that one was not responsible for the actual failure. We're going to criticize the government with the decision that's made. The most important thing we do is to ensure that the decisions we take in the future help us build a different kind of preparedness in Norway in the future. Because we can't live with a situation where preparedness is as low as it still turns out to be. It turns out that even one and two years after July 22nd, it is far from being in port. Practice Tyr shows it. But what we hope for later is that we learn from the mistakes we still find, and that we create a different learning culture for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1184	22 July 2011 has permanently changed Norway. We are left with a greater seriousness. July 22 is a sorrow we bear with us. The experience of 22 July will also change Norway in the future. Changes are needed in preparedness and management. So our common challenge is to change us in a way that takes care of the values that were attacked on July 22nd, and to strengthen our security without compromising the transparency and freedom that we want to characterize Norway. One hundred pst. safety does not exist. In that case, it would be a society that none of us want to live in. I would first like to thank the Control Committee for a very good work. Together with the thorough and honest review by the Gjørv Commission of what happened on 22 July, this setting – and this debate – gives us the opportunity to learn from our mistakes and to lay the foundation for better societal preparedness in the future. That's what we're dealing with right now. Criticism and responsibility shall be shared. But we should also say thank you, and I am glad that the committee has underlined it. We should thank the volunteers who saved so many lives, we should thank the health service for the test, and we should thank all the policemen who made a great effort, despite the system failure that has been revealed in the police. Today, our thoughts are of the relatives and survivors, who for the rest of their lives must live with memories the few of us can imagine. I will also be allowed to thank the AUF. The management of the AUF and its members have shown dignity and courage. They have inspired and impressed us all. I would like to thank the Prime Minister, who, with his leadership, contributed decisively to the nation meeting the crisis with dignity, and former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget, who did the same in a situation that really tested the ability of management and responsibility. Let me first say that there must never be any doubt that the blame for the terrorist attack on July 22 is just one place: in the mass murderer, who is now sentenced to the strictest punishment of the law. At the same time, the Gjørv Commission report and the Prime Minister’s statement clearly show that Norwegian social protection was too poor on 22 July 2011. The Control Committee notes that the central authorities have acted in a number of areas in a critical way. It's about the police, it's about the PST, and it's about the government with the overall responsibility for our preparedness for terrorism. The authorities had not sufficiently implemented several security and preparedness measures that could have prevented terrorist acts and protected people in the government quarter and on the Utøya. The Prime Minister has complained about this in Stortinget, and it was right and necessary. Now it is our job to make Norway safer for the future – with the background to the lessons we have with us. Now, when we're going to review and improve our societal preparedness, SV is concerned that we need a broad and comprehensive perspective on preparedness. It must be invested in better security and preparedness in the traditional sense. Police and defence need to cooperate better, the PST needs to be better able to protect our security, and the system failure of the police needs to be corrected. Nevertheless, it is important to remember the following: an effective security service and a good police force can prevent terrorism, but preparedness is also something more. It is the whole preventive effort of our society that should ensure that no one is lost to extremism and ideas that promote violence. The prevention of terrorism is therefore more than the security measures themselves. We must not forget the readiness to fight the very basis for acts of terrorism. The Gjørv Commission itself was concerned, although for good reason they did not investigate questions related to the motive, growth or health status of the mass killer. However, as the Commission itself has said, the limitations do not mean that these questions are not important — on the contrary. It is our task to continue the Commission's thorough work on broader societal preparedness. If you're on the outside of society, without social networking, you're less at stake. Part of wider societal preparedness is therefore to contribute to a more inclusive community. Focusing on safe growth conditions, good inclusion, good child protection or better psychiatry are also among the measures that provide a safer society for all of us. I remember it, because such measures are often forgotten when preparedness is discussed. There are slow-track measures, which are not seen as as effective or as effective as police or intelligence. Not doing the job with good mental health protection is an equally serious disclaimer of responsibility than not doing the job with helicopter standby. Both must be involved in our broad understanding of a necessary and good societal preparedness. Then we also have a responsibility to fight against the idea of terror and violence. We can do that by refuting prejudices and extremism, and it's a everyday work that is easy to forget in this discussion. In one way or another, we can all be part of the preparedness. Every time we don't care, protest or ask critical questions, protection against extremism weakens. Standing up to right-wing extremes ideas, standing up for minority rights and for the diversity of Norwegian society are also part of our common preparedness. We know that the history of political violence in Norway is essentially the story of right-wing extremism. Therefore, it is our clear expectation that the PST will take the far right environments sufficiently seriously in its threat face, and that they will give priority to the work on the right-wing extreme violence and terror in their work. It is an overall committee that criticises the work of the PST, and I expect that the criticism of the 22nd July Commission and the Traavik Committee report will have implications for the future work of the PST. The report points out that the PST has neglected in terms of organisational development, management development and competence development, and not to be up-to-date on the threat picture. It's essential that something is done about it. I am also pleased that the majority of the Committee has stated that, over the past twenty years, a governance and management culture has developed in the state based on a too rigid target management, where achievement is again linked to a reward system. Together with a comprehensive supervisory system, it has contributed to a culture of zero error and a risk of responsibilities powdering. The perhaps most thought-provoking conclusion of the Gjørv Commission was that the attack on the government quarter of 22 July could have been prevented by the effective implementation of the already adopted safeguard measures. The report identified system failures and structural problems related to the implementation of planning, organisational culture, interaction and communication and management — which have developed over a long period of time. The Commission described inter alia: how the 2011 police had around 100 different targets to be reported by the agency, and the Commission is concerned whether this may have led to a deprioritisation of the work that is not easily measurable. Training and prevention are examples of things that are difficult to measure but invaluable to prioritise. Therefore, in our work on our broad societal preparedness, we need to address bureaucratic detailed management that can help to devalue the individual's responsibilities and creative thinking. The objectives of public agencies should be lower, they should be more overarching and qualitative and should contribute to better cooperation, organisational culture and management. Because the failure revealed in preparedness is so serious, the government parties go to the unusual step of promoting criticism of their own government. That's right, and that's necessary. At the same time, I note that the opposition has not found a basis for promoting distrust of the government. It's also a clear signal, and I appreciate it. The fact that opposition parties today contribute to a historically unanimous decision in this matter is an important and worthy sentence for consideration. This is a constructive attitude that I would like to commend to the opposition parties. The Norwegian people met hatred with solidarity and fear with hope after July 22. The concern and seriousness we bear with us is therefore also mixed with optimism. The people of Norway have shown a willingness to stand up to open, free and democratic societies. That's the hope we're taking with us, and the value base on which everything we go on needs to be based. The SV's group will contribute to what I hope will be a unanimous and important decision in Stortinget today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1230	The Supervisory and Constituent Committee of the European Parliament has been thoroughly and conscientiously involved in the 22nd of July. The Committee leaves behind a thought-provoking document — the last in a series of comprehensive descriptions of what happened before and during the terrorist acts of 22 July 2011. Overall, the report of the 22nd July Commission, i.e. The Yard Commission, the lawsuit against the perpetrator, and now the Storting's own treatment are a very detailed picture of what happened to this cruel day. The July 22 Commission tells the story of a murderer with a cruel plan, about too many lives that ended too early, and not least about the lack of security measures and a police action that saw too much going wrong. Then, of course, it is time to talk about responsibility, to talk about management – or lack of such. The Gjørv Commission pointed out that the whole of political Norway, including us sitting in this room today, and many others, bear our share of the responsibility that Norway was not sufficiently equipped to take care of our own in the meeting with the evil in July 2011. But we must never forget that the responsibility for 77 people being killed that day lies with the killer alone. He's been convicted by the judicial system. What today's debate is going to contribute is to equip society against people like him being able to do something similar again. Following the Prime Minister’s presentation on 28 August last year, Stortinget was given the opportunity to debate the report of the 22 July Commission. I then stated that I was shaken, and of course I am still today. The report gave us too many examples of failing prevention, a lack of preparedness and fatal isolated AIDS. In respect for those who were hit as bad, I was – then, as now – concerned that we politicians in the national parliament must be honest, bend our heads and complain. We have to admit that we are wrong. My simple starting point for this is summarised in a quote from an e-mail I received from a father who had lost one of his boys on Utøya. He writes: ‘For us, reading the report and thinking that with a functioning preparedness and a functioning police force, ‘our good’ would be with us today.’ I cried when I got this e-mail. For me, this short message is still at the heart of this matter. However, some questions will be the subject of debate and disagreement, probably in the foreseeable future. We have to live with that. The Committee has examined the statements by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence and Defence for the Grand Duchy. Responsibilities have been among the demanding issues raised by the Committee. With some nuances in mind, an aggregate increase is behind both the Gjørv Commission report and the presentation to the Stortinget. None of these documents leave any doubt that there was much that did not work as it should. The Norwegian authorities and the Norwegian community were not well enough prepared. Although the very responsibility for the terrorist actions will be the subject of debate for years to come, history will also ring around the fact that the terrorist did not achieve its goal of destroying Norwegian democracy. The matter has shaken us all in the basic strengths, but political Norway is moving forward with a common goal of improving what was not then good enough. When Norwegian voters are given the task of passing their sentence on the government later this fall, 9 September, I will say from this pulpit: On the blackest days of your life there may be reasons to bend your head and withdraw. Terror made each one of us helpless when it hit. But since political leadership is about responsibility and trust, I want to commend the Prime Minister and the Government for being upright, going into the matter and not least going further. The red-green government has never relieved itself of its responsibility as the leadership of the nation. It has chosen to face reality and reality, but also criticism. The basis is the Gjørv Commission’s report – a report the government itself has asked for because society needs to get to grips with what happened on 22 July. Only by getting the whole picture out, we can work purposefully to correct what went wrong. The disaster was a fact. It was obvious that much had failed when the volume could become so large and so cruel. That is why the criticism came as expected. In precise and sober words, the Commission determines that the ability of the authorities to protect their citizens has failed. Life could have been saved. The make-up commission is direct and tells raw and detailed, as it was also asked to do. When the government asks to get all the facts on the table, and since then, in the Storting, explain what has been achieved, it is, in my opinion, a sign of strength, not weakness. Admitting the necessary changes is not a defeat. It's not a sign of weakness. It's just part of taking responsibility. The changes we expect will not be met with scepticism. We're going to admit what's not working, and we're going to do something about it. But using the Gjørv Commission report as a substitute argument for making decisions it would otherwise not have been a majority would be unacceptable. Until then, the July 22 issue is too important and the respect for those affected by the wrong decisions is too great. I have noticed that the story of what went too wrong is gradually being rewritten. In these days, I feel that there are strong reactions to the proposal of the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness, DSB, to shut down a number of 110 centres. The reasons for the proposal are as follows: ‘22. The July Commission report, which among several findings states that police operation centres are too small. This has a direct transmission value to the fire emergency alarm centre.’» DSB is wrong. There is nothing in the Gjørv Commission’s report that ‘police operation centres are too small’. The Commission assessed the health and rescue work. The conclusion was: «Health and rescue work performed well in the emergency phase as well as in the emergency phase». There is reason to ask questions about how DSB has come to understand that the criticism of what did not work has transfer value to what actually worked. The conclusions of the Commission are rewritten here and taken into account for entirely different purposes than they are intended. This is serious. This has to be charged and cleaned up. We're going to be very careful to hold on to the preparedness work in the future, not let it give way to others and perhaps more popular measures in the short term. But we also need to be very careful about what is being done on standby. Social security and preparedness are key areas for action. But still there is everyday crime, house fires, heart attacks and births that the emergency situations are going to help us with. New structures and procedures must not just enable us to tackle terrorist attacks better. At the same time, we have to take care of people most – every day – where they live. For the Central Party, the security of the inhabitants of the entire country is the starting point. No matter where you live, work or spend your spare time, there should be help for those who need it. Terrorism happens at random. It hits when we least know it, and where we couldn't predict it. Terror hits in a municipality. Who had thought that it was Hole Municipality in Buskerud that would be the target of the brutal attack on Norway on July 22, 2011? In a long-term country like Norway, with a demanding topography and great variation in nature and climate, we depend on preparedness across the country. In many cases, the most relevant forces are the local police, the Red Cross group, the Home Guard/Civil Defence crews and the local hospital. Local knowledge will often be crucial when major crises occur. The time factor is critical in disaster situations, whether there is terrorism, accidents or other situations. There is little use in crews with top equipment and education if they come too long after the damage has happened. A diverse country like ours requires different solutions in different places – we need to adapt to the geography and distances we have. The one that is closest to a crisis is often the one that is best suited to deal with it. In the work we are doing with new measures and new structures, we – as also the representative Lundtigen underlined – must listen carefully to those in the first line. We need to respect that good solutions can be developed at many levels and respond better to local needs. It's not all best to streamline Oslo as a starting point. Good solutions can be designed, adopted and practised locally across the country. In my post after the Prime Minister's statement in August, I stressed the Commission's call for each of us to have a responsibility in crisis situations – as fellow people and workers, whether we have leadership responsibility or not. The Yard Commission writes: ‘In the opinion of the Commission, these lessons are more about management, interaction, culture and attitudes than lack of resources, need for new legislation, organisation or choice of values.’ In the configuration of the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, management culture is widely referred to. I would also like to pay particular attention to the fact that the importance of the first line and the management exercised in the situation – in this case where the terrorist attack took place – is crucial. In order to deal better with civil crisis situations as well as acts of terrorism, it requires training to take initiatives and to act independently in new, unpredictable and unforeseeable situations. A significant change of attitude is required both at the overall level and at all levels responsible for social security, in order to legitimise leadership in the situation, based on independent assessments and actions. The experience and assessments of staff members must be released into service and put into service. The first line of commission must be given authority, trust and encouragement to use their knowledge. At the same time, the people of the first line must be trained to ensure the performance of demanding tasks, equipment that is modern to perform the tasks, and we must ensure that the individual has communication with his or her working group, so that the task can be handled as efficiently as possible. Finally, for all these preparedness organisations, they need decentralised management capable of fulfilling the overall level of intent.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1310	The terrorist actions of July 22, 2011 are shaking us all. The terrorist attack was a political attack against the Labour Party, the Youth of Workers Party and against the country's institutions and those working there. We think well of the Prime Minister's words in this room on 1 August 2011: «The map was blown, the compass shot in fillets. But the Norwegian people came forward». [[...]] The fire-salves that were fired on the island told us that the axis of evil is not a place far, far away, but inside the human mind. What happened has happened before. It can happen again, unfortunately, but it's our job to prevent it from happening. That is why the matter we are dealing with today is both important and serious. We need to use the knowledge and experience to take the necessary steps to improve our safety. We owe it to the survivors and the survivors, the ones who know the demise of the body every single day. For approx. a year ago, the special committee completed its work here in Stortinget. In some areas already saw a mass mass that as a society we were not well enough forbidden by a terrorist attack. The Committee gathers on a number of key issues, including:: to further develop and strengthen an overarching plan to prevent terrorist attacks in Norway, to ensure closer cooperation between police and defence and to strengthen helicopter preparedness, to conduct an external review of the PST and to look at the resource situation. The need for these grips has been reinforced when we received the report from the 22nd July Commission. The Djørv Commission's report made it clear that the state's responsibility to protect its citizens' security at a number of points has not been fulfilled. Today, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is on the table. In their treatment they have placed the criticism and responsibility. The most important thing in the future is to make sure that the emergency fails are corrected to ensure that something like this does not happen again. A joint committee has stated that the acts of terrorism on 22 July 2011 are the most serious acts of violence in Norway in peacetime. There is only one man – and only one man alone – who is responsible for 77 people being brutally killed. It is a state primary task to ensure the security of its citizens. Both the July 22 Commission's report and the work of the Control Committee indicate that there is much to be done. The bomb explosion in the government quarter could have been avoided. Grubbegata should be closed. A joint committee is clear in its position that this was FAD's responsibility, even if SMK was involved in the matter. The involvement of SMK was just an expression of the seriousness of the matter, but unfortunately this involvement led to a powdering of responsibilities. FAD perceives the involvement as the responsibility being transferred to SMK. Failure in communication about a matter of such a nature is serious, and one should expect far more from the government. There are many people who have pointed out the difference between risk perception and risk recognition – that it is the key to being able to do what is required. The Committee’s plurality points out that the Ministry of Justice has not given sufficient priority to preparedness in the field of target management since 2008. I agree with the majority in the committee when they say that it is strange that preparedness has not been prioritised – even when target management has become more detailed. Unfortunately, the recognition of the risks of terrorism has been too low. Now the government has to make sure that the police get the opportunity to do the job they are assigned to do. Target management and reporting are necessary tools for this work, but it is only tools – not the target itself. Of course, this applies not only to the police, but also to the public in general. The government needs to ensure that all those who are somehow responsible for preparedness and security in Norway work together – including PST, directorate, police and other nudetatar. We have seen a worthy sentence for this debate today. After following this case in this period, I would say that the most amazing thing is that it was not immediately pressed on the big button. Even today, I do not think we have a clear answer to why this did not happen. But it turns out that as a nation we were not well enough forbidden by terror. One last heart attack applies to the many young survivors around our country. It appears that the allocation of funds for their follow-up has been given on the basis of population, not on the basis of needs. Here the government has to make sure that those in need of help get it. Psychiatry must be strengthened to ensure good help for young people who need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1339	My mandate as Minister of Justice and Security has from now on been to strengthen preparedness. The cruel attacks on 22 July 2011 showed that it failed in too many areas. Where we have discovered defects and deficiencies, we have not waited to take action. However, individual actions are not enough: if we are to make the necessary changes, all of which are responsible for preparedness, possess the right skills and make the best use of their resources, we need a good knowledge base. The July 22 report of the Commission, which came last August, is very important in this way. But from day one, I have systematically worked to put in place a well-updated professional basis to build on the policy. Last week we received an evaluation of the Police Directorate that we ordered a year ago from the Directorate of Administration and ICT, diffi. It confirms the reality description of the Commission on 22 July: the Directorate of Police is not functioning properly. The administration of the Ministry of Justice and Defence has not been good enough. A number of improvements have already been made. For example, in the Annual Letter of Allocation to the Police Directorate, we have introduced a new way of governing, with fewer and more strategic objectives. We give the police management greater scope for action and responsibility to fill this space for action. We have also renewed the main instruction of the Police Directorate to provide a clearer division of responsibilities and tasks between the Directorate and the Department. Like both the Control Committee and the 22nd July Commission, diffi is developing ICT as a problem area. As you know, the government has been committed to a total renewal of the ICT systems of the police. But this in itself is not enough. It is the will and ability to use ICT to make police work more effective that is crucial. The ICT renewal is carried out by several quality assurance projects. It gives us good control of the process and, at the same time, gives the Police Directorate room to take control and build the necessary skills throughout the entire department, so that the police are prepared to implement the new solutions when they get in place. The Police Director has set up a separate ICT department in the Directorate, and Digit's recommendation to build up adequate ICT skills in the line is now being followed up. I just received an analysis of the ICT management in the police department and an evaluation of the police's data and material service from the Police Directorate. This will provide us with an even better basis for tackling ICT innovation as best we can to get a police force where the effective use of ICT tools is an integral part of working methods. In a short time, the government will present to Stortinget the message of our follow-up to the 22nd July Commission. Here we will provide a comprehensive presentation of actions that have already been implemented, and also the status of all processes that have been set up to improve preparedness. In the examination of the submission to the Special Committee, the Stortinget Government requested the submission of an overall plan for the prevention and management of possible terrorist attacks in Norway. We will present such a plan in the paper. We will also present the framework for a new Emergency Norway and provide a number of measures to improve basic preparedness across the country. We're going to have a strong close-up police force that's making a big effort to prevent radicalisation. When a crisis or terrorist attack occurs, local police must have access to reinforcement resources. We need to ensure that staff with adequate skills and resources can reach most of the population in Norway within a reasonable time. It requires good cooperation between the police and the defense. As Stortinget is well known, in June I will receive a police analysis which will form the basis for a long-term plan for the Norwegian police in the future. In the state budget for 2014, I will present proposals for further development of the police. In the work of a new Emergency Norway, it is the people who are our most important resource. In a common sense, we have the best prerequisites for lifting preparedness. Our common security is also a shared responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1368	On July 22, 2011, a terrorist blew the buildings of democracy in fillets; eight were killed, and many, many were wounded – and still are. That same day, the same terrorist took from us 69 of our best young people. They were our future. There were works so brutal that we almost can't deal with it. This is still traumatic – and it will remain traumatic. We'll never get over this. Our community will still be marked by July 22, 2011. The aim of the bombing was to outplay our leadership. The aim of the massacre on Utøya was to prevent recruitment to future jobs in the Workers' Party. The July 22 action was an attack on the Workers' Party and on the values that have developed Norway into the democracy and solidarity that, according to the United Nations Development Programme, makes us the world's best society to live in. The businessman was – is – against democracy, against solidarity. He dislikes multicultural society and hates feminism and equality. According to the court, he believed that the Workers' Party had weakened the country and the people, and that the party had paid for the treason. We can only wonder how a man in his 30s in Norway may have evolved in this way. We owe the survivors and relatives – those who know the bottomless grief, and see the empty chair every day – to make sure that something like this never happens again. We owe the survivors that we should contribute to our society not bringing up extremists of different colors. And we owe them that if anything happens, we have a preparedness that both prevents terror and rescues people from terrorist situations. We did not have such a readiness on 22 July when the resources did not find each other – as we have heard repeatedly and repeatedly here today. The question is, have we had it before? Have we really been prepared for so-called asymmetric warfare? Do we have the ability to plan coordination and cooperation across agencies and institutions when the crisis or disaster occurs? Or is it that our preparedness, based on the principle of responsibility, is good for small forest fires, or, for that matter, for a small or large flood – which Lars Peder Breck has carefully outlined – but that preparedness is totally useless in major national disasters? Is that how it's been? I would like to refer to the position of the special committee, which goes into detail on the necessary measures. I would also like to refer to the forthcoming big message based on the Commission's position, i.e. NOU 2012: 14. Then I want to add that I worked on standby in the Defence Committee here in this house from 2001 to 2005. We were also responsible for civil protection. We looked at preparedness and social security at large, not just at defence policy in isolation. When the Gjørv Commission points out that the various departments or resources never found each other on July 22nd, yes, there is no surprise to me, even if the extent is shocking. I remember how we from the Defence Committee stopped against a wall in the Ministry of Justice when we tried to concreteize measures in dealing with the report of vulnerability, the one based on the Willoch Committee. The culture, possibly in the walls of the Ministry of Justice, was impossible to penetrate. Both the Gjørv Commission and the hearings of the Monitoring Committee have confirmed major failure in the preparedness of the justice sector and have underlined this with a culture – not unculture – that needs to be changed. The Commission pointed out that an important and underlying reason why citizens were not protected on 22 July was a lack of a culture of risk recognition, implementation and interaction. This criticism is primarily affecting leaders, and it has been said very well before today. The security project in the government quarter, helicopter preparedness and police training were subject to a lack of risk recognition by the leaders. Lack of preparedness is primarily about management of interaction, culture and attitudes, not primarily about resources. It was the coordination of the resources that was missing, both horizontally and vertically, or, not to say, horizontal and vertical interaction. I'm an Oslo representative. It also hurts to see parts of the center of this fine city being smashed by the terrorist. This is a city I'm very happy in. It happened on July 22nd. We've known asymmetric warfare for a long time. We have also known – or should have known – that the infrastructure of the capital has been among the main objectives, that the protection of the capital must also be a priority in our defence policy and in our preparedness policy. Civil protection and security measures for central and political buildings in the capital – for that matter also in some other major cities – must be a joint responsibility of government and municipal authorities. Cooperation must be possible, including between levels of government. There must be a common responsibility for police and defence, where defence becomes an operational resource for the police. I also believe that His Majesty the King's Guard and the Home Office must be operational resources for civil protection. States and local authorities must cooperate, not counter to each other. Government authorities have recognised their responsibilities for 22 July. The state was responsible for the fact that Grubbegata was not closed, but the municipality of Oslo may have contributed to the fact that Grubbegata was not closed earlier. After the State Building and the Ministry of Modernization had brought the case about the closure of Grubbegata in 2005, it was called the Ministry of Modernization at the time, it was under a different government – wandered and went into municipal authorities in Oslo. The City Council opposed closure in 2007 and was probably influenced by the fact that an overall media image in the capital opposed the closure of Grubbegata. The Urban Development Committee postponed its proceedings to the new Committee following the election of the City Council. Despite the seriousness of the case presented by the Police Director, the majority of the urban development committee – in November 2007 – continued to oppose the closure of Grubbegata. Let me, in brackets, say that both the Workers' Party and SV of the City Council had always voted for closure, and that they eventually got the consequence of the Right. A minority in Oslo City Council consistently voted against the closure of Grubbegata. At the same time, it can certainly be stated, and I would also refer to what the town council leader said in our hearing, that if the threat assessments had been shared with the municipality at an earlier time, then Grubbegata could have been closed. Let me underline: the state was primarily responsible for the fact that Grubbegata was not closed. There can be no doubt about that responsibility. But when we look ahead, the Municipality of Oslo and the State must have a common responsibility, a common plan for civil protection in the capital, among others. for the object protection of necessary buildings and infrastructure. The Prime Minister has lamented what happened on 22 July – a historical complaint of which there is respect. Now we're going on. We're going to learn and put in action contingency plans. The cancellation message about the Gjørv Commission is coming before Easter. It will go much deeper into security, both the one who was, and the one who has to come. I was outside the borders of the country on 22 July 2011 and went home the next day. Of course, we sat down and followed international media and received telephones from home. Early in the evening, on an international television channel, a representative of the Oslo police district was asked if there was any connection between what had happened in Oslo and what was going on in Ut Island. He replied that no, he could not know, because it was another police district, the Northern Buskerud police district, that was responsible for the Utöya area. So this went all over the world. That's not how we get it again. In the case of international media and foreign politicians, I'd like to add that what happened in the days after, they're very impressed about it. We who sit in international delegations, we hear all the time what a fantastic Prime Minister we have and how well we managed in this country the days that followed after July 22, 2011. Last night I was in Oslo City Hall with representatives, politicians and experts from over 100 countries in connection with the nuclear weapons seminars that are now going on in Oslo, and everyone I talked to expressed admiration for how we in this country deal with such crises when we stand up in them. That's how the outside world has perceived what happened after July 22nd. International media have been concerned about this when they asked us how we have dealt with this matter. Finally, employees in several departments experienced the explosion of their jobs in fillets on 22 July. They were spread throughout the city, without archives and with computer systems that were gone. We in the presidency followed this closely, because we were dependent on communication with the ministries. The departments were able to provide budgets. They made sure that our country was run, without office space and in awkward conditions. They did extraordinary tasks for a nation in mourning, as the Prime Minister expressed it in the Government Quarter. They worked with few tools and were without warning faced with completely inhumane challenges. They are not always the ones who are being drawn forward, but they were able to answer written questions from large-scale representatives, who did not even end up with written questions during that period, and they managed to deal with claims and budgetary issues – partly without e-mail, we found, which did not come up by e-mail, and had to deliver the questions by other means. Let's not forget that there are also many heroes after July 22nd. It concerns volunteers, it concerns individuals in the systems. This also applies to the staff of the departments, which belong to these heroes. They made sure that our country worked, that the departments were intact. They may not have received the praise they deserve. At least let me give them my unreserved recognition and respect, for without them Norway had stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1398	On 22 July 2011, Norway was hit by the most serious terrorist incident ever in peacetime. In the horrific events in the government quarter and on the Utøya, 77 people were killed, a large number were seriously injured, and victims and relatives were inflicted enormous losses and suffering. A comprehensive rescue operation was initiated, and many lives were saved as a result of good rescue work, but it became very clear, unfortunately, that much was not working as it was supposed to. Minister of Justice and Defence Grete Faremo said in his statement in Stortinget on 28 August. that too much failure, we were not well prepared, and that the overall preparedness needs to be strengthened. It is not difficult to agree with her in this. Unfortunately, the police failed in many areas on 22 July 2011. As one of the reasons for this, the July 22 Commission points out that there was only a theoretical understanding of terrorism in the police force, and that there was no real recognition of the threat of terrorism. Despite the fact that the PST already in 2007 warned that it was more than 50 pst. the likelihood that Norway would experience attempts at terrorist attacks within three to five years was very low both in the police and in the Police Directorate. In the control hearing of the Storting, both former police director Ingelin Killengreen and former police chief of Oslo Anstein Grangedal stated that none of them were measured in terms of social security and preparedness, but that they were detailed by the Ministry of Justice in many other areas. The same Gengedal also claimed in the hearing that the police were not dimensioned to the challenges it was facing this fateful day. Obviously, preparedness has been requested only to a small extent by the Ministry of Justice. In this respect, I point out that the letters of allocation for the years 2009 to 2011 did not set specific targets or measures aimed at police preparedness for terrorism or the handling of attacks. This is not acceptable. Another and very serious issue is the lack of clear and unclear role of the police force. The Police Directorate shall be responsible for supporting the police districts that have operational responsibilities in major crisis situations and, if more police districts are involved, shall also be responsible for coordination. It turns out that according to the police's own evaluation report, it was the police chief in Oslo who, in this situation, had the coordinating responsibility, not the police director. As if this were not enough, the police officer claimed during the interrogation that he was not aware that he had been given this responsibility. There was also a lack of clarity about who actually had the role of police director on the day of the terrorist attack. This resulted in police director Øystein Mæland taking the lead in POD, while assistant police director Vidar Refvik represented the directorate of the government crisis council. However, it turned out that Malta did not have knowledge of the plans to be implemented in the event of major crises. So Refvik, who had this knowledge, was in the government crisis council. Such ambiguities in roles and responsibilities that we have seen here are completely unacceptable. I therefore assume that this is now corrected in the new instructions of the Directorate of Police, precisely to ensure and clarify responsibilities and roles between the Department and the Directorate. What happened on 22 July 2011 must also make us look at the general situation of the police. Both the undersigned and others in this house have, over a number of years, focused on the difficult situation of resources and staffing in the police, including police. through questions to various Ministers of Justice. In the responses, the review tone has been that the police have had enough resources to ensure the safety of the population in a satisfactory way. We must always remember that it is the ordinary police who will always be the most important and fundamental part of police preparedness, and that the police response will never be better than the police response in the area of action when the incident occurs. Strengthening the overall police resource situation will therefore obviously be positive for both security and preparedness. It has also been pointed out from several teams that the ordinary police, usually the first at the scene, need to have more hours of relevant training in order to be more prepared for such extreme situations. Another thing that failed on July 22 was the readiness, or rather the lack of preparedness, of the police helicopter. This was due to the fact that the holiday settlement was without a pilot. Also, due to misunderstandings, a police pilot who was at home and made himself available was not assigned to mann the helicopter. Unfortunately, valuable time and necessary information were also lost due to a lack of communications equipment in the Northern Buskerud police district. The emergency network built in the Oslo police district worked well during the terrorist action, but this was not available in Nordre Buskerud. Nor were there any communication procedures established between the police districts using emergency networks and the police districts using analogue communications. This is unacceptable. In addition, the national warning system did not function satisfactorily on 22 July 2011. Improper routines, inadequate messages, and a less reliable warning system mean that more police districts did not receive the alerts, among others. the districts concerned. Necessary measures were therefore not taken. This is completely unacceptable. The July 22 report of the Commission shows that police and police preparedness failed in many areas when the terrorist attack hit Norway. Attitudes, culture and lack of focus on preparedness in both police, police and ministry must take much of the responsibility for this. Defective and deficient procedures as well as lack of accountability and role clarifications are also involved and contribute to such a failure this day. Lack of police resources, including low crewing, as well as the failure and inadequacy of equipment also unfortunately contributed to the failure as it went. These include: Against this background, three parties today believe that it is highly critical that, prior to and during the terrorist acts on 22 July 2011, the government had not sufficiently implemented measures enabling society and the State to protect its citizens. I am therefore looking forward to the consideration of the announcement of the announcement of enlargement, so that we can take the necessary steps to ensure the security of our citizens. In the end, I will pay tribute to all the policemen who, despite all the shortcomings I have pointed out, made a tremendous effort to protect and save lives both in the government quarter and on Utøya this fateful day.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1430	It is an unimaginable tragedy that is the starting point of this debate. In part, there was a warning tragedy: Scenario and risk assessments that were done were for the government quarter their share alarmingly like that of July 22, 2011. The pit hole was not switched on in time, despite the known risk of free motor travel. Of course, it is important to have rules for political processes and for the work of government. In a democracy, things take time, because many are going to be involved most of the time. But I'm going to say that we've come to a point where too much is done late and too bad, because it seems more important to point out analyses, strategies and plans than being right to act. There is something that says that well done is better than well said. It does not help how many fine formulations there are about goals and actions in different plans, if not the ability to act and act is there when needed, and if the systems do not work. And here, in this specific case, everything from the need to close the pitholes to the fact that the police should have stopped the perpetrator before. Things take time. But things should take no longer than necessary. It's about understanding the reality, seeing what needs to be done, and how to prioritize what is urgent, and then actually do it. It applies at the top of the political spectrum, at all levels to government agencies and directorates, but it also applies to individuals. As has been pointed out several times, there was no major problem of lack of resources, bad law or weak organization. The problem was culture, preparedness and lack of interaction. It may not be so strange either, because we've lived in a safe and quiet society, where many of us have perceived threats more or less as theoretical than real. When the unmistakable happened in 2011, it was obvious to us that we had taken mistakes. Lack of understanding of effectiveness meant that much that should have been done has not been done. It applies at all levels. The representative of Kolberg pointed out that the Committee has questioned whether police action is capable of learning from errors. I share Kolberg's belief in a good development in the police in the future, but it led everyone in the department to see that they have a responsibility. To put it this way: the energy that has been used in a uniform wage struggle must not go beyond the strength of professional pride and the sense of responsibility towards the inhabitants. There are many responsible and especially competent policemen in the department. No one should claim anything else. I still think it's good to remember this all the time the July 22 Commission also points to cultures as part of the problem. The representative, Lundtegegen, stressed the need to change the leadership culture at all levels of the administration, and the objective is performance-oriented lease. I am fully behind this, but I add that it is in the dynamics between the lead and they added that the success factor can lie. It is thus a matter of mutual responsibility both in the day-to-day work and when it clicks. Although preparedness is an important part of what the police control, it is important to remember that it is far from the only thing they control. The police are doing a great and good job of preventing, detecting and clarifying the law – there is also a lot of good preparedness for this. Then we should not forget that potential terrorists grow up with us, that a young person who develops to be a mass murderer, does not develop to become independent of the society he and we live in. Being aware of this is not exempting a perpetrator from what he's done. On the other hand, it is a matter of recognising that creating a better society where we take the best possible care of people can prevent some developers from going in the wrong direction. Several delayed infants need to be caught before and get better follow-up. Finally, I would like to join the criticism that a joint control committee is targeting the preparedness work of the government before July 22. As a representative of one of the government parties, I am also aware of this responsibility. In the mention of the police case, I pointed to the responsibility of the individual at all stages. It is to make the best effort based on the resources you have. That's the way we politicians are, to a great extent. And it applies in small and large terms. When it comes to the responsibility for safe and good preparedness to save lives, it's not about small, but about big, even though it's about "just" closing a gate. I hope and believe that our preparedness has already been strengthened, and that in the years to come, too, a total increase will follow when it comes to laying the framework and the basis for people to feel safe here to land.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1458	July 22, 2011 has given us a lot of lessons to learn from. As a nation, we have suffered great losses as a result of the acts of terrorism. Our responsibility now is to do what we can to ensure that something like this does not happen again. It is important that the detailed report of the 22nd July Commission has been followed up by a comprehensive and good discussion here in the Grand Duchy, through consultations, questions and referrals by the Committee. The question of responsibility has been central to the Commission's report, to the Committee's proceedings and to the Committee's deliberations. Let me therefore stress that it is the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church that is responsible for the prevention of object security work for common building mass, common areas and outdoor areas in the government quarter and for department buildings outside the quarter. The exception is the Ministry of Defence and, after the terrorist act, also the temporary offices of the Prime Minister's office. In carrying out this responsibility, the Departments' Service Centre, DSS, and Statsbygg perform important tasks. This has also been my responsibility since I joined the State Council in October 2009. The security project was launched by the Bondevik government. In the autumn of 2004, my department was responsible for implementing the parts of the safety project relating to physical and technical security measures in the government quarter and for departmental buildings outside the government quarter, with the exception of the Ministry of Defence. This work was called the hedged project, and the closure of Grubbegata was one of the measures. It's a central question if the pit hole could have been closed in the past. I agree with the committee when the comments say that the closure of the Grubbegata should be speeded up. In my explanation for the Commission, in the verification hearing and in written answers, I have explained in detail what happened in the process of shutting down the Grubbegata, including the possibilities for temporary closure. I have also sent the correspondence between Statsbyggen and the Municipality of Oslo, along with a timeline that shows the procedure. The correspondence also includes the contact that Stadskåbs subcontractors had with the Municipality of Oslo. I hope that this has helped to illuminate and explain, so that we can learn from what has happened. Looking back, there is no doubt that the closure of Grubbegata took too long. The Prime Minister complained in his statement that Grubbegata was not closed on 22 July 2011. I'm sorry, too. The Committee also comments on the issue of state regulation. The use of State regulatory plan will give the country more control over time use. The Government has therefore decided that any need for changes to plans should be implemented as a state regulatory plan for the construction of a new government quarter. This is done for safety and progress. This means that the State assumes responsibility for the implementation of the plan, but all relevant bodies should of course be consulted in accordance with the requirements of the Planning and Building Act. The government also assesses whether other planning processes can be found in security matters relating to State objects. Following the Commission’s report, there has been an important debate on both leadership and weaknesses identified in the way the administration works. This has also been addressed by the Committee in its comments. These include: about the ability to recognise risks, how leaders work, and the culture we have to say from behind. The Commission has highlighted the need to strengthen interaction, performance orientation and administrative capacity. We need to strengthen the efficiency of administration, and we need to do something about attitudes and cultures. There are no simple measures we can decide to take. Attitudes and culture are not adopted and work over time is required to make changes. The treatment of the Storting here today helps to give us good signals about the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1484	The Prime Minister of Stortinget said that during his appointment, which was discussed by the Committee, we can look at the Commission's report as our joint report on 22 July. I am pleased that Parliament's own story, namely this setting that we've been working on, and present today, despite its inconsistency, is consensual when it comes to what history is all about; those who met the cruel actions, those who didn't come home, those who were waiting, those who were waiting in vain, those who are left, those who have no choice, and those who can never close the history book. Not least this is about the perpetrator. His actions were – although they are real and politically sound – so unreal and outside of politics as we know it, that the committee chose to quote the law. I will also do that for the Size: ‘As the court understood, it was intended that he would have to carry out the actions to ‘save Norway and Western Europe from, inter alia, cultural Marxism and Muslim takeover’. In the previous police statement and in the court he has given a form of motif that can be summarized as follows: The aim of the attacks was to ‘give a strong signal to the people’. Sick people want to apply to the Workers' Party the ‘maximum loss’ so that in the future this would ‘shut new recruitment’. He explained that the Workers' Party had weakened the land, and the people, and the price of treason, were paid for yesterday." The sentence reads, as the committee also quotes in its introduction to the option: ‘After several years of planning, the defendant has carried out a bomb attack against the central government and thus also against the democratic institutions of the country. He has killed 77 people, most of these youths who were mercilessly shot face to face. The defendants exposed a large number of people to an acute risk of life. Many of those affected have suffered significant physical and/or mental damage. Survivors and relatives sit back with a bottomless sorrow. The material destruction is enormous. The atrocities of the defendant's actions are lacking in Norwegian history." It's real -- the same where she's trapped. In view of this, the Committee says that there was one man with political motives such as bombing, skating and killing. In the committee is a few about reality; who was attacked, who the attack was directed against, and who would it hurt. It is very important that we in Parliament perceive history in the same way, because we are responsible for not repeating it. We can all theoretically perceive the consequences of the political attack on 22 July 2011. We can see that, right there and read about it. We in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs can keep that in mind, and we can go to the point of view. But only those who ask for the images, the smells and the sounds really know what it was like. To know how to get away from a mass murderer is knowledge I should wish nobody needed to mobilize. We owe the AUFs a great deal of thanks for their efforts to save themselves and others that day. We have to be able to enjoy every single life that got scared, while at the same time we care about those who were robbed of us. We as a nation looked after together, and the AUFs showed us how it was going to be done with dignity. Thank you so much for that! But at the same time, only those who are left with the issue know how the close grief is. Only those who know how heavy there are to the tombstone of someone who should still be here. To the right Alexandra Bech Gjørv said during the presentation of the Commission's report that the perpetrator could be stopped earlier was both politically and personally painful. Taking into account that politics and culture could have defined the consequences of the attack was a political recognition that was as bad as it was necessary. Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg repeated the same words in his statement for Stortinget, followed by a cause. It doesn't help them who are left, but it was the only right thing to do. What came out has been met with criticism, humble willingness to change and cause – never excuses. But what is it really that helps to be the victim of such a tragedy? What helps after you have survived something your buddies didn't do? What is it that helps after being told that your child is shot and killed and gone forever? Of course, the answer is nothing. But one needs help on the day that unmistakable happens, the day after and in the years that come. There's an expression that says a question doesn't get thirsty if it wants water – it gives it. It shall also be assisted. No need to ask for help from such an event. During the hearings held by the committee, it was found that this had been the case for someone, that they had to ask. There was nothing but shaking to right them, telling them that they had not received the help they needed. The Commission correctly states that the work on health and rescue took care of the damage and the victims in a good way during the emergency phase. Large resources were quickly mobilised, and they suffered good, necessary and highly specialised treatment. Most of them have received good help and follow-up in retrospect, and they involved in that work have a great deal of gratitude for the job they have done, and still do. It is not only health professionals, but also teachers, trainers, local team leaders and other trustees in the lives of those who have offered assistance as far as they are concerned, and it should be appreciated. But it still does not help those who have not received the follow-up they should have. On the same day as this occurred in the hearing, the Committee wrote a letter to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs and to the Minister for Health and Health on the follow-up to assistance given and the distribution of funds in municipalities and counties. The ministers shared our concerns, and I think that's a follow-up. It is a joint committee which assumes that the Ministry of Health and Welfare is following this closely, taking into account its debt on advice, and ensuring that as long as it is needed, everyone who needs follow-up is given it. One should not ask for help, one should be offered to it — even if the seeming one goes in a way, even if one said no before one knew it was necessary. The will to change after 22 July 2011 is great – something else is unmistakable. The Commission notes — as the Prime Minister has also pointed out — that the most important thing to change is the most difficult to turn around, namely, attitudes and culture. The awareness of how leadership and culture play on the implementation of decisions and plans is decisive for an administration, a board and a police force to do what they are set to do: to give citizens the security and freedom of life. Yet, cruel acts do not occur in the face of an open street that should be connected. They do not arise in the absence of power, boats, helicopters or decisions. They don't arise because a society has equality as ideal or is multicultural. Cruel acts occur in the head of the one who justifies them. The hatred against the community, against immigration, equality and democracy became so great that the perpetrator would kill. He has himself said that doing the attacks and executions in itself did not tempt, but the thoughts and hatred made it necessary. The public Norway discussed for a long time whether there was disease. The court ruled that it was not like that. There was healthy hatred, and what makes a hatred grow so big in our society? What does it say about society itself? I'll allow myself to say that whoever hates the community doesn't know it. It is the community's responsibility to take away those who want it. Skulars, neighbors, health services, trainers, police, politicians and the press — and all that lies between them — every day have the task of ensuring that the boundary between being disunity and hating is drawn up. It's dangerous for the individual and it's dangerous for all of us if it doesn't happen. The political attack was directed at the Labour Party and the AUF – which hit several, wounded many and left behind an entire country in grief – was executed by a man who simultaneously blew up the political scale. It was radicalized, extreme nationalism inspired by counter-jihadism and other conspiracy theories that met us that day. Words were put into action. Extremism exists with all political and religious signs. Although this man acted alone, he is not alone in his thoughts. As Øyvind Stroemn and others with him have said: «The lonely wolf comes from a flock.» Usocial thoughts grow in social forums – in a real or virtual reality – together with others who share them. When thoughts lead to terror, we must dare to discuss those thoughts. That is the key to the absence of recurrence. Terrorism, hatred and extremism can be concealed behind and relieved by so many. Religion and politics, criticism of both, and conspiracy theories, are such shields. Freedom of expression can be abused, but I will never participate in a policy where it is not possible. But it requires it. It requires a greater awareness of what images we draw of each other, of what values are connected to each other. Background and religion are never the recipe for crime or hatred. Where to come from, or where to believe, or access the Internet for that part does not make people dangerous. Radicalisation, on the other hand, as we saw on 22 July, can be. We need to consider how group thinking works today, too, before the media image. World and Norway do not consist of groups, it consists of us, of people – human. All hateful formulations are not important contributions to a debate. Sometimes the formulations aren't arguments, sometimes it's just hate manure, and we have to dare say that we don't want to welcome. Extremeism and hatred do not benefit any society, and everyone with political consciousness must use every opportunity they have to work against this. And when I think about it, that's exactly what they were doing on the island on July 22, 2011, before it started to count.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1544	I'm going to start by being a little personal. July 22nd will be forever burned into my memory. It was when the terror showed its ugly being in Norway, and it became much closer and more personal than the terror we daily see through the TV screen. Of the well-known and colleagues in the drama policy and in local media, there were four who had their children on Utøya. Two of the children didn't come back. I am a father myself and can barely understand what these parents have been through. Two young Drammenspolitik colleagues were also on Utøya. One of them was the cohabiter of a very close friend of mine. Fortunately, both survived. Another friend of mine, who is also a party colleague, was among the volunteers who took survivors from Ut Island, and who got a well-deserved medal for this. On the evening of July 22, I had a longer phone call with him, and it was probably only at this conversation that I understood some of the scope and seriousness of the terrorist action. It has been said before in this debate, but these people – cabin dwellers, camping tourists, AUFs and residents at Utøya, and passersby and employees in the government quarter, such as Bisto in the rescue and relief work – made an amazing effort of which there is an incredible respect. When my brother-in-law, who is a policeman, came home from Utøya on Saturday evening that weekend, I also understood what efforts were being made by the health professionals and the police on the spot. In retrospect, it has been the municipal auxiliaries that were to follow up survivors and relatives. I have seen that many have been pleased with the follow-up, while some have been less satisfied. It is in the nature of the matter that the tragedy is so great that nothing can be enough, because something inalienable has been lost. We hope that the healthcare system and the municipalities will learn both from their faults and from what was done well. When we addressed the matter in the control committee, we – as mentioned in the debate – had a visit to Utøya and in the government quarter. It gave us a good picture of what had happened, but personally I have to say that it was a very strong experience. The hearings we had were also important – and correct. Together with the Commission's report, however, they gave us an insight that revealed errors, shortcomings and omissions. The picture in my head that describes the conditions is the small, crowded rubber boat that stops and almost sinks. An image says more than a thousand words, it's said, and the images of this boathead are such a picture. July 22nd was the day of two terrible acts of terror, but it was also the day when major defects and defects were revealed. Some of the defects and defects that appeared could have been avoided. Let me take a few examples: the challenges of the network were known. This had been debated in the United Kingdom for over ten years. Among other things, I can Please mention that it is more than ten years ago that I addressed the situation around Emergency Network in a question to the Minister of Justice at the time, and it has been addressed by a number of other representatives after that. The helicopter standby deficiencies have been identified several times — among others. as early as 2002 – by the Progress Party. We have also pointed out the need for resources and equipment in the police. I think it was the representative of Solberg who said earlier in the debate that all the failures that occurred after 22 July are things that are pointed out in debates and proposals here on the Stortinget. The act of terror is a cruel way of learning, but hopefully we've learned. The representative, Siv Jensen, requested concrete action in his post, not just assessments, language and words, but concrete measures, and I agree with that. We now need action in terms of budgets, in terms of clearing up who is responsible, in terms of management, in terms of interaction between defence and police, we need better equipment, such as helicopters, weapons and an assessment of ammunition, we need to get the technology in place, etc. It's more than enough to get hold of. We can't make Norway 100 percent safe from terror, but we have to do much more to limit the threat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1559	Terrorism events on 22 July 2011 were the most extensive acts of violence in Norway in peacetime. It was a terrible act that shook the whole nation. One of the main reasons why the state failed its citizens that day was a lack of culture in the risk assessment, enforcement and interaction services. There was evidence of weak preparedness at the forefront of the attack and a failure to deal with it when the disaster was a fact. The cultural critique is primarily a strong clay critique. The Construction Commission concluded that the ability and willingness of the lease to clarify responsibilities, establish goals and take action to achieve results have been inadequate. The July 22 report is truthfully descriptive and shows gross failure of preparedness, but it also shows that significant conditions worked. The lead that was exercised in several places and that worked in the first line was determined by the Yurv Commission so that the terrorist attack did not get even worse results. The health service passed the test on July 22nd. Several thousand people were involved in the important work of saving lives and health. The July 22 Commission describes what happened, as follows: ‘Health personnel, firefighters, police, non-governmental organisations, civil defence and a host of volunteers mobilised large and outsourced professionalism, humanity and heroes against this day. The terrorist attacks triggered the largest rescue operation in Norway in recent times and the prehospital rescue effort was impressive. Hospitals delivered world-class trauma treatment, and a good distribution between health care levels ensured that no bottlenecks occurred.» The July 22 Commission further writes that the health care system was motivated by a good culture of learning, where services are watered down to focus on the practice and learning of exercises. The health system chose to maximize crisis at an early stage. There was a great deal of implementation in an unbridled situation. The report also highlights the health service’s ability to interact with the local generalist competence and the central specialised competence. We need to learn from what went well in the health services on July 22nd. It has transfer value to other service areas. The culture, competence and interaction that health records exhibited on July 22nd, I believe is the result of a culture that is built up over many, many years. Without a good lease culture and understanding of the need for a decentralised preparedness and the need to practice it, this culture can easily be demolished. Although the health care service passed the test this time, my point is that we are not guaranteed that the health care system has such a solid system and so robust lead that it will be equipped with a possible new crisis situation in the future. Preparedness costs, and preparedness for terrorism costs even more. We have to work all the time for the decentralised response solutions that worked on July 22nd. The alternative is central solutions, which could weaken preparedness across the country. All disasters occur in one municipality. Preparedness must work locally. It cannot be stressed enough that without the efforts of volunteers at Utøla and local efforts in Hole municipality, including the local authorities. the creation of the touching centre, the health and rescue operations were not of the same quality. Life was frightened by volunteers, we must not forget it. The lesson must be that efforts by volunteers and local communities are a necessary resource that must be mobilised even in later crisis situations. Fire, rescue and health are areas that need to be dimensioned in order to cope with crisis situations that require leadership under extreme stress – situations where fear, chaos and insecurity are dominant, and where action paralysis for many without training will be the natural thing. The Government Party emphasizes in the setting that all emergency agencies therefore need a decentralised lease and refer to the Defence’s new lease philosophy. All employees need to be able to take the initiative and act independently in new, unincorporated and unbridled situations. Focusing on frontline guidance is, in my experience, essential both in the medical services, the ambulance service, the fire and rescue services and in the individual police districts. Decentralised rentals must also apply to local hospitals. It has been popular for some years with so-called clinic organization in the specialist services, where the rental is centralised, and where relatively large hospitals do not have rentals in place. Fortunately, this is changing in some places. It's necessary. Among other things, Ringerijk Hospital has again introduced local rental. I expect that after July 22, the experience will continue with the development of a decentralised lease structure in our hospitals. Ringerich hospital was otherwise the hospital other than Oslo that received the most damage. The hospital quickly and comprehensively mobilised and, in the Commission's view, made a very good medical effort on 22 July. Hardly injured patients were stabilized, and thus relieving the hospital Ullevål hospital. The Commission writes that this illustrates how important it is that even smaller hospitals have the competence to receive and provide stabilising treatment for patients with serious injuries. This fact that the Gjørv Commission here addresses the role of local hospitals in an emergency situation is important and needs to be followed up in the government emergency response. The first minutes, the first half hour, can be decisive for the outcome and the magnitude of an event or accident. On July 22nd, we failed at a significant point in our preparedness. It's known, and it's regretful. Now we have to follow up on the system criticism that the Gjørv Commission came with. We have to pass on what is good, and we have to take geography and distances seriously. Basic decentralised structures must be in place to enable preparedness to function. But readiness cannot be decided. We can adopt contingency plans, and we can practice crisis maximising, as the health care system did quite correctly. However, preparedness needs to be rehearsed and become part of the culture itself – often called the spinal reflexes – at all service levels. Making sure it's a management responsibility, and nothing but a management responsibility. Finally, I will give tribute to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, which has done a thorough and comprehensive job in this serious matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1588	77 people killed and many injured in a political attack were the result of one man's actions. However, systematic risk-mitigation could have prevented and prevented much. That's the recognition in the moment of truth. That is why we in Stortinget today are discussing responsibility, preparedness and what has failed – but also what worked well – the blackest day in the post-war history of Norway: July 22, 2011 – one day we hope we will never experience again, but we are planning to be able to hit again. Most people here in this room know that I am personally affected, as my daughter was injured on Utøya. I am therefore a close relative and a great representative. This, of course, also implies a closeness to these issues raised by this debate today. It is an experience I have never asked for, but as I have, like many others in Norway. The attitude we are discussing today is based on the Prime Minister's and Minister of Justice's statement on the follow-up to the Gjørv Commission. In other words, it is a politically wild and absolutely necessary critical review of what ministries, agencies, systems, politicians and leaders at all levels have done — and have not done — to prevent a possible terrorist attack in Norway, and to minimise the damage caused by terrorist attacks. The painful realization is that it took a bomb to shut down the Grubbegata, despite years of knowledge of the need for closure. It cannot be characterised in any other way than in the system of both the State and the municipality. It's a heavy confession. That the perpetrator could also, at the top of it all, have been stopped on his way to the Utøla, is hard to accept. The fact that the Gjørv Commission also demonstrates that the police could have been faster on Utjay – many minutes earlier – is a fact that theoretically could save up to 27 lives and that families around Norway still had a son or daughter to eat dinner with. The fact is, I know that many parents give the country around an understandable rage – in addition to the great, heavy grief it is to have lost a child in a terrorist attack. The court gave the perpetrator its punishment, but the loss of 77 lives still requires more. It requires action. It is therefore very important that the government has done so far, and that the government's notified emergency response, which we are about to receive, follows up the Yurv Commission in an offensive way, and that agencies show real willingness to change structures and cultures and take the governance and management challenges seriously. But now that we're discussing what went wrong, I want to spend time on a couple of perspectives. Let me start with what I want to call the brain of readiness: the operating centers. I would particularly like to link some comments to Nordre Buskerud and Oslo operating centres. The Gjørv Commission shows that Asker, Bærum, Oslo and Søndre Buskerud were all connected to the emergency network and could communicate between themselves. However, the problem arose between the three and Nordre Buskerud, which was not yet connected to a new common emergency network. On 22 July 2011, the operation centre in Oslo and Hönefoss must have been working in an awake nightmare. Now that we have the whole picture, in the Commission's report and a thorough attitude from the Committee on Control and Constitution here on the Stortinget, it's very important to remember that this was not the case on 22 July. Then it was chaos. In Nordre Buskerud, there was one person manning the operating center. In Oslo, she was set to lead the operating centre, completely fresh in that role. She had simply not been an operation manager before. It illustrates a cultural problem and a management problem. You can also ask yourself, ‘What were the conditions for these employees to succeed in their job at the Operation Centres in Nordre Buskerud and Oslo?’ Did they have the tools they needed? The answer to that is, no. Operation centres and AMK centres are critical when a major event occurs. They couldn't communicate between themselves. They were called down by witnesses, victims, desperate relatives and other emergency seats. At the same time, they were to manage and coordinate the work and operation, which gradually included many police districts, with a lack of ICT system, poor staffing at the centres – spiced by the Gjørv Commission’s call lack of a culture of communication. At the same time, crews were to be called in. The people who worked at the operating centre that afternoon have my great respect. Yes, they came to short, and yes, it is unforgivable that not Breivik's witness-observed refugee car was requested and could thus be stopped on the way to Utøya. And yes, it is unsustainable that it was not called before Kripos himself contacted Oslo, 1 hour and 18 minutes after the explosion in Oslo. But it's most of all symptoms of system failure. The people at the Operation Centres in Oslo and Nordre Buskerud did not have the prerequisites to succeed in their job. It is a political responsibility, but it is also a responsibility of the police. It may be a symptom of a lack of understanding of what is required for good preparedness. I therefore want to give the employees of the Operation Centres in general, and not least the employee and subsequently the employees who were at the Operation Centre in Nordre Buskerud in particular, a verbal uprising from the Spokesman of Storting. Yes, they made their mistakes, but they didn't have the prerequisites for them to function in such a big action. It must be taken seriously, not least by the police themselves. Afterwards, I visited the joint AMK headquarters in Søndre Buskerud. As you know, all the emergency situations are collected under one roof. It gives a completely different structure, and much easier interaction during a crisis, where several emergency situations go out to a place of injury. So to the theme no. two, the emergency medical response. Eight people lost their lives. At least 200 people were physically injured in the government quarter. On the island, the perpetrator killed 69 people. He shot and injured 33 others. Even more of those on Utøya suffered physical damage, such as fractures and cut injuries in their attempts to save themselves and others. In addition, the psychological stresses they'd all been subjected to. Several thousand people were involved in the important work of saving lives. There were health professionals, firefighters, police, non-governmental organisations, volunteers and civil defence. A lot of people were mobilizing big. They showed professionalism. They were deporting humanity. They were heroes this day. The terrorist attack triggered the largest rescue operation in Norway in recent times. Everyone who contributed to that rescue work should have our collective thanks. Of the 31 partially severely injured patients who were sent to Ullevål, 30 survived. In the grief of the losses, we must rejoice that life was saved. They were rescued by people outside, in Oslo and on Utøya, but they were also rescued by a health service that supplied world-class emergency medicine. The Western Week in general and Ullevål and Ringerreich hospitals in particular showed an impressive crisis preparedness and also deserves commendable mention for the effort. The long-term follow-up is, as many have been involved, a more nuanced picture. There is a great deal of variation in the kind of follow-up that has been done, left behind and loved ones. It is important to make sure that all the facts are on the table, and that you do what you can to ensure that families get the help they need, and that you now prevent mental damage, disability and suicide among those who are affected. When I talk to the trauma doctors at Ullevål or to the employees and the management at Ringerijk Hospital, they say to me, we just did our job, and what we're trained to do. Many people also say it was very good to be able to contribute. A health worker has a expertise that was needed that day. They experienced getting to work as very meaningful, despite extreme stress. The same is true of many volunteers and the police – it was nice to be able to help, instead of sitting at home. But for all of us who got our home, it wasn't just a small contribution. It was a life that was saved – relatives, colleagues, friends and people we are happy with, who were saved. It is the greatest contribution you can make – life again in gift. Upon the grief of all who have been killed, it is also allowed to rejoice over this. I'm going to end: the most important thing we can do is prevent new extremists from emerging. The best-performing attitude of the businessman. This cannot therefore be just a debate and a question of preparedness and systems. We also need to be able to conduct a continuous debate on value in our country, on the basis that our society is characterized by a high degree of tolerance, a high level of cohesion and trust between people in our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1626	When I opened Facebook two days ago, the first thing I read was that that day Margrethe was 18 years old. She didn't experience it, because she was one of the young people who lost her life on Utja Island on July 22, 2011. I thought it was important in this debate to talk about the victims, the relatives and the survivors. Chapter 3.4 of this section discusses this topic. The Committee concludes that all those in need of assistance should receive it. Unfortunately, according to the feedback I have received and as stated in the setting and attachment, the offer has varied from municipality to municipality. Many people feel that they have received very little – actually bad – follow-up. It can't be like that. I think that all the municipalities involved should take up a status with the Health Directorate, so that they can get the help they need. There are still a lot of people who still have tough roofs, and who need professional help in time too. That's the responsibility of the municipalities. Some municipalities have done a very good job, while others do not reach the whole thing. Everyone needs the help they need, so they have to go by themselves to see if things can change. I also have contact with local support groups. The feedback here is the same, that the help supply varies from municipality to municipality. Another feedback I have received is that there is little coordination within the county – where one might have expected the county council to do such a job. I have also been told that the municipalities are now a little proactive – they were just after July 22, but now you have to take the initiative yourself. This may prevent some from asking for the help they should have received. That said, it is also important to say that some people feel well taken care of. The support groups do an incredibly important job. In addition to the national group, there are also separate groups in the counties. In Akershus, there is an active group that helps each other, which provides information about actions, and they arrange joint collections. Their challenges are economic means of operation. Not all fit under the same umbrella. Hence, some of the relatives who have left the support groups and started their own foundation, Utøla 2207. They have now received NOK 250000 in funds and are to have a start-up meeting on 18 April this year. Their goal is to get conversational groups and therapy groups for those who need it. I know that Modum Bad has also started a youth group. I think it is so unlikely that there are different offers, because people react differently in such situations. For the victims, relatives and survivors, life will never be the same. It's youth that's still alive for loud sounds. It's our job to make sure that everyone gets the help they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1649	I would like to mention the importance of municipal risk awareness and preparedness, which is hardly mentioned in the summaries since July 22, 2011, despite the obvious link to some of the main conclusions of the Gjørv Commission: the ability of the authorities to protect the people of the Utja River failed, a faster police action was really possible, and the perpetrator could have stopped before July 22. With close friendship with some of the lefty, severely injured, physically undamaged youths and their relatives, I know that the most serious thing to live with is the painful question: Could anything be different? This sore point has been commented on in depth — in the Commission’s own report, in the Prime Minister’s statement to the Stortinget, in the hearing, in the position of the Control and Constitutional Committee, and in the media — but no one says anything about the importance of municipal risk awareness and preparedness related to the question: Could anything have been different? I believe that is a great weakness, which will also be a hole in our future preparedness if no one takes it seriously. A faster police action was really possible. Our Prime Minister said in August that we need to concentrate on the core mission: ‘Citizen security. The security of society. And we have to start at the top.» ‘Interaction’ is an important keyword. I agree. We must start at the top, yes, but also at the bottom – at the same time. We never get the best preparedness without a close interaction between central and local risk awareness and preparedness, not only with local police but also with municipal authorities. As the Prime Minister has acknowledged the top responsibility at the central level, so must the country's rapporteurs recognise the top responsibility locally, and they must cooperate. The Yard Commission has only one half-page on crisis management at local level, but it is stated in plain text as follows: «Every domestic incident takes place in one or more municipalities. The municipality is responsible for important local response resources and has a fundamental responsibility for ensuring the safety and security of the population.» The Commission points out that, as a result of its extensive responsibility in the course of a legal crisis, the municipality is required to identify and assess the likelihood of adverse events and to compile them in a comprehensive risk and vulnerability analysis and contingency plan, with which the State is responsible for supervision. But in a way, the Commission does not complete its own reasoning. It is such that all municipalities are required by the law in force to carry out comprehensive risk and vulnerability analyses as a basis for social security and preparedness and to cover the entire risk profile of the municipality’s geographical area, not only its own responsibilities. The island is located in Hole municipality, which has such an analysis. As in the ROS analysis for Buskerud County, the risk of terrorist attacks was considered unlikely. I don't think anyone can blame for that, either municipality, county council, county council or police. But about the lack of access to boats, which delayed police arrival in the island, and which may have cost lives, the Gjørv Commission writes: ‘Even though the summer camp gathered hundreds of young people each year, the Northern Buskerud Police District was not prepared for an unwanted incident to occur on the Utöja.’ I have spoken to the rapporteur in Hole several times, this morning at the latest. He informs that the municipality is prepared, inter alia. has a list of associations capable of assisting in a crisis situation. The rapporteur is now taking the initiative through his own emergency services, where the police are also sitting, to get the boat associations on that list. The rapporteur also says that an important experience of what happened on 22 July 2011 is the ability to improvise in crisis situations, which requires good local knowledge. In this context, they have also discussed in the municipality the possibilities for closer cooperation with the Staten Kartverk to ensure that the necessary local knowledge is available at all times. It's just that places are called the same thing: in Finnmark, for example, it is. Almost 50 places called Skaidi. More likely events than terror may also be thought of, such as forest fires, fires in tents and buildings or a major accident, which may also in the future require rapid access and evacuation of the island or islands elsewhere. The AUF shall, inter alia: together with the municipality, at the time appropriate for them, decide on the future use of the Utøya. Then the certainty of a quick local readiness will mean a lot. Good local preparedness will probably also be better with a plan for quick requisition of boats than in the Tyrif soil, for example. through a standing agreement with local boat associations, which Mr Holes rapporteur has now proposed. Included in such an agreement is also the implementation of exercises, where the volunteers and civilians who are to assist in a crisis are also involved in the exercises. It doesn't just have to be about boats. In other places, there may be cars or snowmobiles that are needed, which we have enough of in this country, but which we need to coordinate when we need them in a crisis situation. We must have trained that in advance, and we must have an overview of that in advance. I believe that Hole's experience will be important when we look forward and improve our preparedness for the future. What bothers me a little is that neither the Yurv Commission nor the subsequent treatment have examined how better coordinated preparedness locally could also contribute to resources finding each other and enabling a faster police action that had stopped the perpetrator before, so that life could be saved. If we do not recognise that some of the things that need to be learned also include local risk awareness, prevention and preparedness, and interaction between central and local levels and between local authorities and police, I believe that we are losing an important dimension in improving ourselves for the future. When an overall committee in the vote expects the government in the forthcoming Single European Act to discuss a comprehensive review of the responsibility for emergency work, the responsibilities and contributions of municipalities and the coordinating role of county councillors must also be given the necessary attention. It's not about after-time, it's about the necessary learning for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1686	A large part of today's debate has naturally been about preparedness, crisis management and action in justice and preparedness policy, both on what went wrong and on what can be done to improve preparedness. That debate, of course, is absolutely necessary. Nevertheless, the fight against terrorism is about more than preparedness and crisis management. It is about working against extremism and widespread violence, creating an inclusive society for everyone, and implementing security measures — of course — in the police and justice sectors. But it's also about prevention work, maintaining the tolerance and openness we saw after July 22nd, and ensuring that democracy and human rights are key values in Norwegian society. I'll take three areas in that way in this post. The first concerns religious dialogue. The world needs religious dialogue. Too many confused religious people use their misunderstood religious views as an argument for violence and killing other people on the globe. Also in this case, the terrorist used the imagined struggle between religions as part of his justification for committing cruel acts. We see the same thing in the far too many acts of terrorism that the world has been – and unfortunately still is – hit by the last few years. Religious leaders have a great responsibility in this way to prevent and defy religion as a reason for terrorism. Everybody's got to be on the track here. The Norwegian Church is active in this field, and that's good. In addition, there is an important work under the direction of the World Council of Churches, which is currently led by the Norwegian priest Olav Fykse Tveit. Last week the Church, Education and Research Committee was briefed in Geneva on the work they are doing. There is no doubt that the world needs someone to do such a job, because it is not rare that religious leaders from countries characterized by terror and great conflicts are afraid to stand up with a clear voice in their own country, we were told. The second thing I want to do is take up the role of the school. Of course, it has a special responsibility to teach future generations in human rights and democratic understanding. The school shall promote gender equality and solidarity across groups and borders. Students shall develop cultural competence for participation in a multicultural society. The formulations that I have quoted here from the general curriculum, there is a broad consensus about, and it is important that the school takes this seriously, even though it also has many other important tasks. But this cannot be left alone in the schools. How we adults communicate with each other – how we say things, and what we say and write about and to each other – is part of the formation of children and young people. There are many comment fields in the newspapers that are worse than the bullying in Norwegian schools. Many adults are upset about bullying stories, but they should also be involved in what is happening on social media, for example, because the tone and words shape the cultural change of words in a democratic country. This is not just something I think, because it has recently been demonstrated by two American researchers who have published an article on a study where they have looked at the effect of the comment field under articles online. They can demonstrate that those who read a neutral professional article with unsubstantiated views in the comment area got a clearly more negative impression of the subject than those who read the exact same article with factual comments below. It is not particularly encouraging in view of the comment fields in Norwegian media that are full of gender discrimination and xenophobic attitudes and where hates vulmer between lines. In addition, once upon a time – what we've been used to – it was editors who edited and stood responsible in the media, now we're all our own editors. That means that everything gets out, with the consequences it has. That is why it is an important message to AUF leader Eskil Pedersen when he calls for a settlement with extremism, and that is a message we should listen to. But, however, the fight against prejudice, racism and discrimination is a continuous struggle; it is not something to take a final settlement with. Many hoped and thought enough that in 1945 one was at a zero point: Europe lay in ruins, the Holocaust emerged in all its horror, we had just seen two nuclear bombs being blasted and killing many people in Japan, and hundreds of millions of people were dead around the globe. But antisemitism, racism, Muslim hatred and prejudice survived World War II, the post-war survival, and it grows as a social phenomenon now. Especially when there are economic downturns, these attitudes are very good. The value debate that several people are calling for, including previous speakers here, is absolutely necessary, and each of us should take the responsibility that lies in it – in our own community, in the media and in the general debate on society. Finally, the starting point for this debate is the presentation to Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg on 28 August. It ends with the following words: ‘Each and every one of us can stand up for the ideals of democracy. Everyone can guard against signs of violent extremism. Each of us can alert about the failure of preparedness. Together, we are our strongest protection against violence". I think these words are responsible to all of us so that nothing near what happened on July 22nd will happen again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1715	Through the statements made by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice and Security, the attitude of the Committee of Control and Constitution and the decision that we will gather about not so long, we recognise that we were not sufficiently prepared when the terrorist attack hit us and our country. It is an experience we share with the United States, when they were hit on 11 September 2001, and with Spain and the United Kingdom, when the train and underground bombs hit there. It is natural that the attention and debate are about what went wrong this black Friday. The consequences were so extensive and so dramatic. It's essentially what doesn't work like it should, we have to learn from. I will not repeat what the vote says about this, and that many have been affected in this debate. But we can also learn from it and from those who lived up to what we expect and can expect. In particular, the health system has been brought forward. The same is true of many individuals — volunteers who made an extraordinary effort, with a risk to their own lives. It is important that so many have made this visible and famed in this debate, as has been done in the Görv Commission and in the position of the Control and Constitutional Committee. The defense also responded as we could expect, although fortunately, we can say, was not put to the ultimate test. They were early told by the Minister of Defense to be pre-conquered and prepare for their resources to be called on. They got a clear signal to say yes to all the police had to ask for assistance. They started the preparations and were ready. When the request came, the clearances went smoothly. For this reason, the Committee may also, in its position, say that: ‘to the extent that the defence assistance was requested, the tasks were largely well solved and within the framework conditions and the time limits in which they were applied’. There is reason to believe that this would be the conclusion even if the police's requests for assistance had arrived earlier, and that is reassuring. We will later consider further actions around our overall preparedness when the government submits the notification of this. Without anticipating the events, let me point out one experience from July 22. The special forces of the defense contacted the police emergency squad a few minutes after the explosion in the government quarter: do you need assistance? The Special Forces of Defense and Delta didn't just know each other, they knew each other because they often practice together. It cuts the thresholds to make contact when it's serious. There is an important experience also for other units in the Defence and Police Departments that should be available to the police whenever the defence capabilities can and should assist. Training together increases contact and knowledge of each other's needs and opportunities, and there is a short way to get in touch when it's serious. The absence of the police helicopter service when terror struck is among the criticisms, both in the Commission report and in the attitude. It has been decided to build a police emergency room on Alnabru. It will strengthen police preparedness, the helicopter service and the Delta team. I think we should also consider whether it will not be important to bring about the helicopter environment of the police and the military helicopter environment at Rygge in the context – not instead of the emergency centre at Alnabru, but in addition. There are also areas and infrastructure for common exercises for all emergency budgets. Let me point to a reflection around the police versus the defense. What does the defense do for a day-to-day basis? Yeah, they're training on the big disaster. What does the police do for a day-to-day basis? They do a lot of different tasks – from patrolling the streets to law enforcement to investigation. Then they sometimes train on the huge disaster. There is an important difference in assessing how to strengthen preparedness and the ability to move from daily operations to extremes, which the police had to do on 22 July. The attack on the government quarter and the killings on Utøya was a political attack on the Workers' Party and our youth, and on the democratic institutions of the country. He claimed that he had to save Norway from Marxism and Muslim conquest, as described in the judgment and in the suspension. The businessman was likely, but his view of our society and our social development is extreme. He was driven by a self-imposed illusion, a right-wing extremism that led to actions almost beyond our grasp. We recognise and place today the responsibility for not having sufficiently implemented measures that could provide a greater capacity and a better opportunity to protect the country's citizens before the terror struck. It is important that this continues to be followed up with concrete action in many institutions and at many levels to draw lessons from what went wrong and from what worked well. I will dwell a little bit on the extremism that lies behind these terrible acts. The Yard Commission drew up management and culture as central reasons for its failure. Management and culture need to be improved in agencies, departments and governments. But it is also about leadership and culture in a broader perspective – from a societal perspective. I would say a little bit in the extension of the perspectives Marianne Aasen drew up in his post before me. It's also about leadership and culture, and it's a responsibility we all have to take on – in political environments, in religious environments. Of course, we politicians have a special responsibility. Do we conduct the social debate with words and expressions that give a real and true picture of the problems and developments, or do we color? Do we get the dramaturgy too much space? The media also has a responsibility, of course. A special challenge here is – as Marianne Aasen pointed out – the new media channels, the social media, where there are no responsible editors who can contribute to holding opinions within the limits of propriety that should shape the social debate, even when there are conditions and events that can rightly call for rage and anger, or perhaps especially then. But, of course, it's not just about the forms of debate and the climate of debate, it's about maybe inclusion and good growing-up environments, as the representative Lightbakken pointed out. It is when individual humans feel left out, that distorted ideas get grounded and can be cultivated, that enemy images are created. Therefore, an important aspect of our overall readiness to contribute to everyone's experience of this society as their own, as a society they will belong to, participate in, and participate in. This is also how we will build on what we saw after July 22nd, when all the people were talking about our common values, about democracy, and about multicultural and egalitarian society. That's how we turned back on the terrorist's ideas. That is also how we can strengthen our overall preparedness — and perhaps prevent new terrorist attacks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1752	I would like to thank the Stortinget for a worthy and good debate on a matter that has a background so cruel and so serious that it is really difficult to take it over. I believe that in this debate we have touched on the main issues highlighted by the Gjørv Commission and on which the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs has focused. Of course, in such a debate there is a lot of focus on everything that went wrong. That's what went wrong. But fortunately, we also have the ability to bring forward all those who represented the good on July 22, 2011. We have from this pulpit addressed a great deal of thanks to all the volunteers who, at the risk of their own lives, saved many lives. We have thanked volunteers and random passersby who were involved in saving life in the government quarter. We have raised heroic AUFs who made a formidable effort, despite being threatened themselves. All this good is something we should take with us as a lesson from July 22 – and, of course, that which has failed. There has been talk of culture and leadership – or perhaps a lack of culture and leadership. I think it's an important theme to bring on. I record that this is something the government also focuses a lot on. The Minister of Justice and Emergency Service has also said that this is a focus – one has started working from the top of the Departments. That's wise. The Commission report concludes that there were not only resources lacking in the failed preparedness, but also full lack of culture, attitudes and leadership. This is about the ability to see what needs to be done, and then act. We have also discussed this with responsibility – what it means to have responsibility, and what it means to take responsibility. The Prime Minister has been very clear on this. He has also been clear about what he regrets about things that failed. Today we also heard that the Council of State Rigmor Aasrud was clear on where the responsibility for the security measure was – in FAD. The Council of State has the highest political responsibility for this. I also record that the Council of State Rigmor Aasrud today regrets that the closure of Grubbegata did not happen before. I think that was a wise and proper way of acting. I'm very pleased with that regret, it was right. For this with trust/minus. We in the opposition parties have explained why we have landed there in terms of conclusion. When it comes to this with confidence – I hope no one gets offended when I say that – I have to say that the litmus test is linked to the magnificence message that the government will shortly be presenting, where they will point out how Norway should be better equipped to meet events equal to the July 22 event. I look forward to dealing with this message in Stortinget, and I hope it contains the necessary proposals for action. Otherwise, like the other three opposition parties, I have to say that when I recommend the Christian People's Party Group to vote in a subsidiary way on the criticisms of the government parties, it is clear that in the term "authority" we also understand of course that authority points to government, as more representatives of the red-green parties have been clear – just so it is clear that there are no misunderstandings about what we mean by authority. But as I said, thank you for a worthy and good debate. With this debate, the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs can also set a worthy sentence for the work we have been doing since September last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1771	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1785	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1799	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1813	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1819	Then the Storting is ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1827	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left motion No. 2, by Martin Kolberg on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 3, from Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the population believes it is serious and critical that, prior to and during the acts of terrorism on 22 July 2011, the government did not take sufficient action to ensure that society and the state were able to protect its citizens.’ The voting boards showed that there were 111 votes against and 5 votes in favour of the proposal from the Christian People's Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 15.39.56]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1852	President! I voted wrong. It's going to be 112 against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1857	More expressed the same thing. There is a new vote on proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party, so that we get it right in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1869	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size of the population believes it is highly critical that, prior to and during the acts of terrorism on 22 July 2011, the government did not take sufficient action to ensure that society and the state were able to protect their citizens.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1884	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The situation is critical that prior to and during the acts of terrorism on 22 July 2011 the authorities did not sufficiently implement additional security and preparedness measures that could prevent the acts of terrorism and protect people in the government quarter and on Utøya. The Prime Minister has regretted this in Stortinget. The complaint was correct and historically necessary. The majority acknowledges the Prime Minister’s regret and the government’s efforts to make Norway safer, based on the lessons learned from the acts of terrorism on 22 July 2011.’ The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they want to support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e1918	In the case of cases No. 2–4, the second time legal proceedings. There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-05.ana.ud2267e2003	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
