ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e36	The representative, Kari Henriksen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e53	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: 25 minutes, 15 minutes, 10 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes, 5 minutes of the Central Party, 5 minutes of the Christian People's Party, 5 minutes of the Christian People's Party and 5 minutes of the Left. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e62	Nordics practice more than ever — yes, more than ever. It trains more often, harder and more. In fact, the physical activity of the Nordics in the form of training and exercise activities is very much above the average in Europe. At the same time, the overall daily physical everyday activity is significantly reduced. Still jobs, increased car use and media and communication use have given us completely different assumptions for physical activity than the generations before us. These changes are so striking that although the training activity is at a historically high level, the total physical activity has nevertheless been reduced. A 15-year-old spends more time on silent activities than a 70-year-old, according to the report. It gives important associations to the rapporteur, who has a son who turned 15 last week, and a 70-year-old to father, who two weeks ago took part in the World Championship on skates. I would like to say that there is reason to rejoice over the broad political consensus that the vote shows on the main lines of sports policy and the objectives in this area. There is disagreement at individual points, which emerges from part of the proposals in the setting, but overall there is a happy consensus on the long lines of sports policy. The reasons for state sports policy have varied throughout history. Originally, the defence capacity of the country was based on a prominent justification. Later, the health significance became stronger. Since the 1970s, sport has been defined as a natural part of cultural policy, and there is a turn from the instrumental dimension of sport, such as defence and health gains, to the social and meaningful function of sport. In the future, on the basis of a more physically inactive population and strong growth in lifestyle diseases, we will see a turn towards the return of sport becoming more important to public health, but at the same time the social and meaningful role of sport is fully emphasised. The treatment of the notification shows broad agreement to strengthen the effort for sport. There is a broad consensus about changing the key, and there is no doubt that the change that will now take place will give a formidable growth for Norwegian sport. The Communication refers to sport as training and competition in the organised sport. At the same time, the Committee considers that sport is more than that of organised sport. A lot of competitive preparation training takes the form of self-organised activity, either in forest and land, in commercial training centres or in sports facilities. Competitions may also vary in levels of play, organisation and formality. It is a good thing for Norwegian sport to have Norway’s sports federation as a collective player and representative of a wide range of sports. However, there should not be any similarity between sport and Norway’s sports federations. As developments in which self-organised physical activity has become increasingly important, it is important that authorities can create broad alliances with all actors who contribute and have an interest in contributing to physical activity, whether in training centres, the insurance industry, public health organisations, other voluntary actors and others. The Government proposes in the Communication that the grant to ordinary community facilities be combined with the grant to ordinary sports facilities in the municipalities. Here the opposition disagrees and believes that the scheme is important and should be maintained. Here we have received very clear feedback from a lot of hearings. The Committee further points out that sport is the country's largest voluntary movement. Norway’s sports federation is the country’s largest voluntary children’s and youth organisation, and sport is carried out to a large extent by just voluntary efforts. The Committee also emphasises that sport and local sport cannot be expected or required by the State to assume responsibility in addition to its primary tasks, but that sport policy must support and stimulate growth and development in sport on its own premises. There has been a lot of bad news in the last year that challenges the credibility of sport, mainly in the international arena, but also here at home. That's why I want to finish the article by stressing that sport is based on the idea of equality, fair play and honesty. It is therefore important for the Committee to state that the fight against doping in sport must be strengthened. The Committee also stresses that it is positive that the Norwegian authorities, together with sport, will have an increased focus on fighting fixation in the future, not only as a contributor to this work at European level, but also in a national perspective. I take up the suggestions that the Christian People's Party is behind in the vote, and I expect the opposition to take up its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e92	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e95	A little quiz as a start to my post: what is behind the three numbers 8–5–6, and what do they have to do with today's sports message? Some people definitely connect them – and to the others, I would say that behind the numbers it hides a very important part of Norwegian sport. From this pulpit I would like to greet – and congratulate – everyone who participated and contributed to this year's Ski World Cup giving us eight gold, five silver and six bronzes. Then we must not forget similar good performances in both ski shooters and alpine world championships. That's how we can keep listing good sports performances of Norwegian practitioners in incredibly many different sports. There is good reason to be proud of our top athletes for the effort they make to achieve the best possible results in their sport. They are an inspiration to all of us – it creates pride and coherence when we hear the national anthem being played in honor of the one at the top of the pole. But it also contributes to something else that is not least as important: through the top sport, we recruit new people into the sport. Curling, ticking and not least freestyle are examples of good practice that have helped get many young people out of the high school and away from computer games. Even in the 1960s, I had ambitions to become a new Wirkola. The only thing I achieved was to jump after him – and many might think that it was an achievement in itself. In the sports message that we are dealing with today, both the top and the top sport has its own self-evident and important place. The government will facilitate both of these to obtain the best possible framework conditions in today’s way of financing sport. The decision to change the key so that 64 pst. of the profits of Norwegian Tipping used for sport is such a measure. The decision means a raise of more than half a billion dollars to Norwegian sport, if today's Norwegian Tipping forecast is kept by layer. Then the government has adopted both the VAT compensation scheme, the grassroots scheme and local means of activity, which means that three-digit million amounts are channelled to Voluntary Norway — where sport has its central place. We are quite sure that that money will not be put on the book – most of it will be used to maintain and not least create new arenas to create new activity in the whole country. The lag on the plant side is large, we have a lot to take back – we just have to admit – and it will take years before we are where we should be. I don't think I'm wrong that there will be enough discussions about the introduction of more funds for sport in the years that come after this. And just for the rest of the way by to have mentioned it: when any OL in Oslo will cost 35 billion. kr, and when it is expected that sport and the state will make a significant contribution, I suggest carefully that we will have some interesting debates about what the sport is going to spend on. But the time, the sorrow. I must admit that the large ski championships that have been sent on TV have contributed to my daily dose of at least 30 minutes of activity being minimal. I've probably become what we define as "inactive." The theme 'inactive' has been given a great deal of space in the communication — and then seen from a public health perspective, as the rapporteur pointed out. So I'm not going to say so much more about it, except that inactivity leads to a societal task, a job that we all have to take seriously. There we all have a considerable responsibility, and we will not get away with that. When we read that six-year-olds sit six and a half hours still per day, it tells us that we have challenges in these problem areas. A lot of people have to go around doing something about this. There is no doubt that we are dependent on sport, and here the sport has so far really set up. From my own hometown, Alta, it's an exciting project going on. Alta IF has created a sports SFO. And during a visit to the Groruddalen we got to participate in many exciting projects where sports not only contributed to the activity of the kids, but where the sports arena was an important arena to confirm to the participants and suggested that we all play on the same team, regardless of ethnicity and skin color. There is a lot you could focus on through such a debate, for example. the importance of major sporting events and for the places and regions where they are organised. One example is the Finnmark race, which has evolved from 20 participants to 130 international participants, and which has literally become a Finnland event where both industry, sport and culture meet – which in turn creates good spin-off effects for the community and the regional level. I will end by thanking very much all the thousands of volunteers who in their everyday lives contribute to Norwegian sport being the diversity in which we are all so happy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e123	The last speaker started by hailing our athletes. So do I, but first of all, I want to pay tribute to all the volunteers who spend thousands of unpaid hours to make arrangements for new and upcoming athletes. The job done around the country in the different arenas, I think, is absolutely invaluable. That's where the coming ski stars and the sports stars are created. Many thanks to them – and at the same time thanks to the rapporteur for doing a good job of obtaining this option. What has remained largely during the treatment of this sports communication is the economic challenges facing sport, especially on the construction side in terms of funds for initial investment, and also in terms of rehabilitation. It's a fact that under this government has been dragging on the tippers increased considerably, and it doesn't seem that one is about to make any special grips to get it down. We had a great expectation that when the Workers' Party and other parties at their national meetings decided to change the key, it would become a reality, and that it would be phased in quickly. Unfortunately, that has not happened. It goes very slowly forward, and if you kept that pace within the sport, it would have been guaranteed the last place in every exercise. The Progress Party has made a number of proposals to change the key to 64 pst. Every time we've been voted down, and it's not the Progress Party that's the loser here: it's Norwegian youth, it's Norwegian sports movement, which is the big loser. We think that's sad. Providing a good economy is one of the most important steps we can take. The Progress Party has proposed that non-resident gambling companies be allowed to establish themselves in Norway through a licensing scheme and that part of the turnover be attributed to Norwegian sport, as is the case with the distribution of the key. That would mean about 7 billion. kr would be returned to Norway. It would be a formidable boost for Norwegian sport. So that is not the political will in this Chamber. No other party supports it, and once again it's the big loser sport in that way. We think that's sad. We're recording that this is the case, but we're not going to give up for that reason. We expect, hope and believe that the other political parties in this room will see the light in that way sometime. The second theme that has gone on again is that of physical activity — especially for children. Yesterday, it was found that one in five children has weight problems, and one in three children drop out of high school. There are serious signals, and then you have to do something about the failure of children you see in sports. There are a lot of people who are active in early childhood, and then you fall off pretty fast. The progress party probably doesn't have a total solution to this, but one of the suggestions we've made in this room applies to one hour of physical activity every day in primary school. That was the vote of the other parties in the Stortinget last autumn. International surveys conducted show that it is highly recommended. It is also recommended by the Marit Breivik Committee, the Legemide Association and the Health Directorate and others. There have been some pilot schemes. They've turned off very positively. Not at any of the places where experimental schemes have been launched has it been reversed – in other words, one has seen an effect, both in terms of well-being at school and in terms of reducing bullying, as the youth bigotry, which ended here on Tuesday, was very concerned. So there's really only good arguments to do something like that, but unfortunately: it's the political majority here in this room voted down earlier. Finally, I would like to address the proposals in the vote on the Progress Party alone, and those that we are with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e142	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e145	All mothers and fathers, all grandparents and all volunteers who participate in the grassroots movement of sport are the driving force of Norwegian sport and Norwegian volunteering. It is also the essential force that is involved in organizing the local, good communities around the municipality of Norway. Right will take care of the democratic power of sport and volunteering. Then we have to maintain the integrity and independence of sport, and we need more neutral instruments that strengthen sport and volunteer, and then we have to maintain the principle of spreading power that ensures that sport is built from below and up. For the Right, the communities between people who are free and willing to make an effort for each other are the most important. They're at the heart of volunteering. We want a strong civil society that balances the power of the state. Sport must retain the freedom to exist under its conditions and not be reduced to an instrument known as State sports policy. As politicians, we must provide good framework conditions, and sport itself must be able to find the right solutions. Now it is also the turn of sport, the Minister of Culture promised in 2011. Last year, the government promised to increase the surplus of the drugs to 64 pst. to sport for more than three years. Right takes the promises of sport seriously. Let's do what we say for sport. So we increased the key fraction by 6.2 pst. already this year. Unfortunately, the government said no to that. We still hear that the sport notes the disappointment – at the latest at the hearing here in the house – that the government has not followed up its promises. Better framework conditions for the voluntary sector should be a basic principle as red-greens presented the voluntary service in 2007. Six years ago, the government promised to simplify reporting requirements and assess project support in state sport policy. They considered strengthening the Free Fund scheme and adapting grants to new organisational structures. After almost six years, the government is only as far off as the mapping is concerned. Volunteering has repeatedly wondered where it was of the red-green implementation force, when you look at everything they promised to volunteer. At the hearing of the Right, volunteering and sport highlighted the importance of giving room for confidence and the excruciatingness of the demands for administration and form fields. We had hoped that there would be changes for volunteering and sport in this message, but unfortunately it was missing. The right will make use of the opportunities for cooperation between private, voluntary and ideal forces. We value commitment and commitment, no matter who will contribute. We must combine the good community of values of sport with the creation of values in the private and voluntary sectors. We have to get the potential to encourage all good forces to get to it. In the 2013 state budget, the right and the citizens took joint concrete action for sport: We want the sport to keep more of the gifts they get by increasing the tax credit. We take concrete steps that reduce administration and form fields. We want to take a power cap for sports facilities by increasing the VAT compensation by 100 million. kr. The sport itself wants an overall site plan — a national transport plan for sports facilities. On the right, it is smart that sport and government together find solutions to coordinate national and regional plans for the construction of facilities, because we need better coordination. Today, non-current assets are allocated to 19 different counties without full coordination. Norway can no longer organise international handball championships, because we do not have a national handball facility approved for international championships. But great championships provide important inspiration that strengthens the breadth of sport, because top and top sports live in mutual interaction. Therefore, the Right believes that Norway should regularly be a host nation for major international championships. Right wants to support sport in keeping the earmarked grants for community facilities that the government will remove. Sports and outdoor activities provide training and recreation. Tour traditions are important in Norwegian cultural heritage and provide great natural experiences. We need low-threshold services for inactive adults. It should also be easier for the local sports team to operate sports facilities. Sorry, governments say no. Before the rules became more stringent, the municipality of Bærum could finance the construction of the Gjønneshallen and allow sports to run halls with profits. Such solutions that exist there will have more of them on the right. We see that sport in Norway needs several different solutions for organisation and operation. With simpler and more flexible rules, we can have lower costs for municipalities, new income opportunities for sport and volunteering and better use of hall capacity. The Sports Association has worked for good cooperation models for sport and public health. Active in Daytime provides organized physical activity for all adults receiving social benefits. Participants say that training and association with positive people provide social cohesion that builds up and improves physical and mental health. These are examples of giving people in a difficult situation good quality in everyday life. We also need close cooperation and good dialogue between sport and school. We have to give a seamless offer to the children who need it most. More positive focus on physical activity in school has very many good effects. Then sports facilities and the school must also cooperate to capture those who often fall outside. Then we have to get the good sports arrangements for lending equipment and selling used goods in several places, so that the children can be involved independently of what Mom and Dad serve. The right believes that sport must have the freedom to make good and inclusive offers on its own premises. Volunteers in sport add value to diversity work that the country can never achieve. Unfortunately, the Sports Communication has few concrete measures to stop the dropout. The longer children and young people continue in sport, the more they continue in student sports, enterprise sports and as active parents and grandparents. It's important for public health. It may be one of the most important things for good health and for a good quality of life. Sport offers many different social and cultural communities that evolve and include us all when we participate. It is our most important role to facilitate that sport should continue to have the opportunity and predictability to do just that. We need all parents who set up. There has been a recent debate on parents in the coaching role. We must remember that the parenting stuff in the field of training is absolutely crucial to the existence of sport. At the same time, we need increased training skills when our children are getting better. Voluntary trainers need to be given skills enhancement and follow-up so that they are safe on the job and can make the best possible effort to train. Here the sport itself has developed Trennerlöpa – a programme that provides both sport, pedagogical and organisational empowerment. We need to ensure that the sport itself is given the freedom and the ability to facilitate precisely the community of good communities. At that time, we need to give the sport confidence and opportunity to influence and to find the best local responses and initiatives. Then it is our role as politicians to facilitate that sport itself will have the opportunity to develop further – to the best of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e195	Sport covers almost everyone. We have children's sports, youth sports, sports, individual sports – the possibility of the race or the ski tour on organized runs, or on scaled paths for that matter – top sports, sofa sports, yes, those who enthusiastically follow top athletes on the screen and the more general: physical activity. The term ‘physical activity’ is a broad term. This includes, for example: Work, exercise, outdoor life, play, exercise and trim – and of course the different sports I have already talked about, yes, maybe except for sofa sports, then. Before going further, I would also like to support the homage of volunteering, fires, outdoor organisations and the Sports Association. For SV, it is important to highlight the parallel sport and prevention of health that sport or physical activity can provide, inter alia. through well-organised outdoor activities and measures that can reach the inactive. That's why I'm celebrating the post for just this. The message responds well and the main intention is that everyone should be able to participate in sport and physical activity. We are unlikely to be lucky in Norway. We have a fantastic nature, and most of us have unique opportunities to be active in beautiful surroundings in the community. In addition, we have the opportunity and political will to spend a lot of money on organising organised and self-organised sports. The back of the medal is that everyday activity has decreased, and more and more people are becoming inactive. These include: that we have more stationary work and easy access to the car. Purchases and movements at even small distances are often made by car. And how many people don't drive a car one mile to train at the gym? According to Sintef, 95 000 Nordics could be defined as completely inactive in 2010. When we know that inactivity is a major health challenge, it is important to take this seriously. Then it is important and right that the government emphasises that the work for increased activity in the population is an important part of the overall public health work. Research shows that early established behaviour is important for its choices. If you have an increase in a lot of activity, you're less likely to become an inactive adult. Here we can help to facilitate a good culture of activity and movement. My granddaughter is today a year old. I envy her the energy and the activity she has. I hope she meets a kindergarten that contributes to the maintenance of and increased desire for activity, and that she gets the opportunity to go to school, and that she meets a day-to-day school where physical activity is a natural part of good cooperation between the SFO and sport, and that well-organised neighbourhoods for self-organised activity, trips in green areas, for example. grandmother or organized activity arouses her curiosity and interest. If she is to experience this, we must continue the offensive interest we have in sports and outdoors today. This requires, inter alia: support for sport, for outdoor life and a commitment to help maintain outdoor areas near where people live. We then provide a good basis to prevent today's active children from becoming tomorrow's inactive adults. Activity is good prevention in both physical and mental health. But physical activity is also good repairing work. I have a mentally ill partner. Part of the treatment for him is movement, both through exercises to strengthen balance and body control, but also through, simple and straightforward, walking tours. When he gets healthier than he is today, maybe Active in the daytime can be a good offer – an organized offer of physical activity in the daytime for those who receive some form of social welfare or social welfare. These are usually cooperation solutions between public and sports, and good benefits can be reported for participants, and they come in a better form and are satisfied with themselves. This is in many ways a both repairing and prevention concept, which can help to get out of the group inactive. There's a lot to enjoy in the sports message. I will present my enthusiasm for bet on inactive. Lowthreshold services in nature and the community are most likely to appeal to this group. Outdoors are becoming even more important over the years to come, and this part of sport policy should receive increased attention and frames in the future, as it emerges from the message. I am pleased that the focus is on varied and targeted use of instruments to reach more inactive ones, and that the focus on outdoor activities is strengthened, and that the Ministry of Culture will give priority to self-organised activities. One might say that physical activity is a personal matter, but fortunately we live in a society where there is a broad consensus that we should facilitate everyone’s participation – it is the competitive person, the one-year-old who stands in the start-up pit or the cohabiter who needs help to get back to being an active user of the outdoors.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e218	The sport is a people's island in Norway. Almost everyone has a relationship with the organized sport. We practice more than ever, and we experience that large sections of the population are joint owners when we have big events. The Norwegian sport model is about participation, volunteering and inclusion. We're going to rehabilitate and strengthen that model in the Center Party. The sports message is involved. We are proud to be part of the presentation of a sports message that we experience that sports Norway is well pleased with, even though we just heard from this pulpit that the Right is not satisfied. We believe that it is primarily the local sports laws that will be strengthened in the forthcoming sports campaign. Several sports facilities are to be built throughout the country and local resources for activity are to be increased. We also need to ensure good geographical distribution through the criteria for the distribution of funds. Large population density, but also long travel distances, are both emphasised in this context. There is a great need to build more sports facilities in this country to allow more people to engage in sports and to improve teams’ capacity for their activities. But there is a huge gap between the need for sports facilities and the available games. Therefore, there is a need to strengthen the sports area by changing the key, and it has been taken up by the government. We in the Center Party are impatient in this way, and will work to increase the sport's share of the tipping money sharply over the next two years, so that one comes up to 64 pst. in 2015, as we promised. This increase must trigger clear requirements. We want more transparency about how public money is spent by reporting on site development, top-notch sports and activities for children and young people — and not least the distribution between these areas. We will focus on simplification and red tape. As much as possible shall be addressed to the administration both centrally and locally. Norwegian society is facing many challenges despite our oil wealth. One of the biggest is, as many have mentioned here, that people move too little – this despite the fact that many practice often and much. The daily activity of people has fallen considerably, and a large proportion of the population is inactive. It's a threat to public health. Sport and physical activity are important contributions to the same public health. Both cultural policy and health policy instruments need to be used to maximise their activity. When everyday activity declines, organised sports activity becomes even more important in preventive health work. The most important thing that public can contribute is the development of sports facilities and the safeguarding of areas where activity can take place. This is important for the active ones, and also for inactive ones, the development of installations will be important, precisely to have them activated. I know that many people believe that public health has nothing to do with sports policy. I think that is completely wrong. I am sure that the sport itself sees the potential of getting a maximum share of the Norwegian people in activity. We know that lifestyle is largely transferred to the next generation. That is why it is a great potential for sports around. The more active young people are, the more likely they are to become active when they grow up, and there is a greater chance that they and their young people will become active in sports around them. This is a win-win situation for sport, for public health and for society. One of the results of the notified key change will be the strengthening of outdoor activities through self-organised activities. These facilities have a high potential for use and will contribute to achieving target groups that do not find an offer in organised sport. We are also pleased that the Mountain Outdoor Facilities Scheme and the Youth Outdoor Action Scheme continue, and not least that the Communication calls for the extension of the Outdoor Action Grant Scheme to include inactive adults, but nevertheless for young people to continue to have first priority. We in the Center Party are concerned with the spirit of hard work and that the voluntary effort that is being put into sports throughout the country should have good framework conditions. Therefore, it has been important for us to put in place good support schemes for the construction of sports facilities for both sport and sport. Sport Norway can feel confident that we in the Center Party will continue to work to improve their framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e244	Sports policy embraces a lot – top sport and child and youth sports, sport and the self-organized physical activity of many, and not least, I think, the great joy of many of us being spectators at sports events. There's something more and more Northmen think it's funny to do. It's also part of our sport. Today, I want to raise two perspectives that I think are important: the public health perspective and the voluntary perspective. It is important to look at sport and voluntary activity not only as a means of solving societal challenges but also as a driving force. We must never reduce this activity to an instrument for the authorities to achieve anything else. We're going to be concerned with the joy of volunteering, and the joy of the drive to do something, just because it's fun. Sport should primarily be rooted in the desire of each person to contribute, to have physical activity and to have fun with the activities chosen. I am therefore pleased with the remark in the position that the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have, where they address just this. We need more simplification and better organisation for voluntary activity in the future through reporting requirements, simplifications and issues related to volunteer registers listed here a number of times. I also think it is important to stress what more people have said before, that we have many volunteers who are now trainers, and that it is an important part of the identity of Norwegian sports that this is not only professionalised, but is also a voluntary activity. I think it helps to develop the sport positively and keep the width. At the same time, when we talk about quality time between parents and children, there are a lot of parents and children who have the quality time together in voluntary activities, and that it actually has a self-esteem that mothers and dads, uncles and aunts are involved and contribute to the leisure activities that kids have. That means we also get more interaction between ourselves. So I want to comment on the economy within this field. I believe we should have had a system that had stimulated much better that private people could contribute to volunteering in this field as well. We should have systems that stimulate gifts, a stronger increase in tax deductions, and we should raise the limit of pay and duties and employers' duty to make this easier. It would both be anti-bureaucratic and give them opportunities for other sources of income. I believe that the proposal to grant a manless inheritance would have been a good contribution here to give something back to communities that could experience such an inheritance. So to the games, we probably have a slightly different perspective on the games than the government games. This is largely about the view of Norwegian Typing. We believe that more people should have been released on the game market, for example. through a licensing system that would have provided more money for voluntary activity. We want more people to be able to contribute more income to culture, to sport and to the voluntary sector. I would also like to repeat, on behalf of us, the criticism of the other opposition parties about the grass root fraction. There was a project that we were very sceptical about, also in this room. Now we see – if it is not misused – that at least it does not lead to anything near what was said in the banquet halls from this hall that it was to be achieved. With regard to the plant situation, we want a much more flexible regulatory framework specifically related to VAT compensation for sports facilities. I think it's great that sports teams and the like. can operate a hall or facility owned in principle by a municipality. It must not stop legislation, it must encourage it. There is a lot of good news in the message about aesthetics and durability related to installations, but in the case of doll and bubble systems – e.g. in the case of tennis, I think today’s legislation is being too strictly enforced. I strongly urge the Council of State to stress this problem and to ensure that we get tennis bubbles that can also be entitled to both tipping agents and VAT compensation. Then we would have had a big boost in the field of outdoors, because that's exactly what will mobilize those parts of the people who wouldn't otherwise have had the opportunity to use the sports facilities we have today. Can I say a little about voting – very short?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e266	The number is out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e269	It would have facilitated your job, but then I can do it in writing.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e274	During the World Cup in Nordic branches, which ended this weekend, Norway took 19 medals. While Anders Bardal and Marit Bjørgen took gold in Italy, Tora Berger won yet another race in Holmenkollen. Aksel Lund Svindal took World Cups on White Mountain, and Norwegian practitioners won both classes in Wasalopet. Many of these highlight in an interview, when they have passed the finish line, what team work they have done to get there – from the trainers to the butterers, the professional apparatus around them, but also the volunteers who helped lay the foundation for their success in their youth. Our sport model is unique. He is based on thousands of volunteers and anchoring in local teams and clubs. He's inclusive. Anyone who wants to join us should be involved. Almost all children are in the sport. There are two million memberships in Norwegian sports teams. It's our greatest movement. He bets on the width and on the top, and that's how he's closed with both. When Norway, with only five million inhabitants, wins over the big world nations in the open and in the ground, it's because our model works. We've called him the Norwegian sports model. The sports message, which Stortinget is dealing with today, is about managing and strengthening this model. In the message, the government has laid the foundation for a forward-looking sport policy that allows peoples to participate in sport and physical activity at all levels. In the work on the message, we have put a lot of emphasis on getting input from and to the right of all the parties involved. It applies to municipalities and municipalities, organised sport and other organisations operating or engaged in sports or physical activity. It has gathered a better message. Our overarching goal of sports policy is sport and physical activity for everyone. That means that anyone who wants should have the ability to engage in sports or physical activity in the form of exercise. Even with such an overarching objective, some priority target groups are where it is particularly important to target drug use in order to achieve it. It is children, young people, people with disabilities and inactive. In order to achieve these goals of state sports policy and to ensure good conditions for sport, the government is going in to change the destinations of the gambling law that regulates the distribution of surplus from Norwegian Typing, the so-called key. The goal is 64 pst. the excess must be used for sport purposes. In the state budget, we made it quite clear that this promise is to be reached by 2015. It is unusual that there is such a clear money promise in a big message. Even more unusually, before a message is processed, a set of things is being done to fulfill them. But the phase-in of the change is already going on, and in 2013 it's going to be 47.9 pst. hosts distributed for sport purposes. Once the whole phase-in process is completed, it will mean an important boost for sport and the construction situation in the municipalities in the country. In addition to sports facilities in the municipalities, the government is responsible for its sport policy. In most cases, sports and physical activity depend on facilities or facilities. That's our division of labour with sport. We contribute to installations, he fills them with activity. The changes in the key are primarily due to the need for increased investment in sports facilities. Increased resource availability means the ability to cut back on demand, adjust government spending and further develop the civil engineering programme so that it hits. When it comes to community facilities, I would like to stress that the changes we are making are being implemented to simplify the scheme and to give more freedom and responsibility for priorities to county councils and municipalities. Environmental installations will still have the right to take advantage of their priorities. at an increased rate of return. We aim to strengthen the framework for organised sport. It will provide a better basis for pursuing and further developing the activity in layers. It is in the local sports teams that almost all activity in Norwegian sport is created. It is also through the creation of its primary activities that sport is best advised to solve other tasks in society, such as: for preventive health work and inclusion. There is little that includes more than kids who play on the same layer or parent that sits together on the sidebar and cheers. The message will also provide an indication of how much effort is made to top-level sport. Great sport is entertainment, but there is also something deeper that creates the identity of the audience. When there are Norwegian practitioners on the pole, it helps to create a community beyond the eye of the National Sun, and it helps to create dreams for the next generation that once it can be the ones that pass the target line first.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e297	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e300	As I said in my post, and as the Council of State was involved, the funding of sport is one of the most important steps that has been requested in the handling of this message. We have called for, as the Council of State knows, a system in which we also allow foreign gambling companies to establish themselves in Norway through a licensing system in which parts of the turnover are attributable to sport, in the same way that funds are allocated over the key from Norsk Typing. In addition, there is also the possibility to register those who play and to offer help to those who develop gambling addiction. I know that the Council of State is fighting hard and does not want to. Then my question is: does the Council of State believe that Norsk Tipping has such poor products that they do not tolerate competition from foreign gaming companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e307	Norwegian Typing has a good product, and they are developing new products to meet the challenges of foreign gaming companies in a good way. I would like to stress that the model laid down in Norway – the one-rights model – is primarily about countering gambling dependence. Then he has the amazing additional effect that he gives a lot of money to both sports and voluntary organizations otherwise. I feel that there is a very strong connection to the model, even in sport – that they recognise the importance of having a model that is so clear that one is actively working against gambling dependence, and that one has a clear look at it. Nor is it that there is any automatic in that the model that the representative from the Progress Party sketches will necessarily lead to more money for sport. There's one in there. magazines in Denmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e312	I understand that the government parties think it is nice to take credit for all the gold and silver we took in the World Cup and frame it up in number. I wish they went a little bit into new target groups, that everyone should go, no one should be outside. There's a challenge. Disabled persons fall outside the age limit of 26 years in order to receive support for transport, accompanying arrangements and equipment. Why won't the government parties, and why won't the Council of State, at least share in investigating this – what can we do to help this group? I would like the government parties and the state council to have turned around today and to be able to support the proposal in the vote, which is due to be discussed today. There's a group that's outside, that needs this help. It's an age limit of 26 that's artificial, that we should do something about, and we can do that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e317	I share the commitment of the representative Thomsen to ensure that disabled people have good opportunities to participate in sporting activities. That's why there's one of the bet areas in this message, where we're designing different tools to get it done in a better way. The 26-year-old report has been given to us in the past, which we take with us. Universal design is an important premise for the facilities being built. The representative Thomsen, in his reply, was also concerned that the government took the credit for the medals that were won. To that, I just want to stress that we don't, of course, that the honor has those who have won the medals. I'm proud of the achievements of Norwegian athletes, so I'm proud of Norwegian culture. That must be to the delight of the Progress Party its representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e324	We fill the empty pools, we promise the Workers' Party when it's election campaign. The National Audit Office's response to the promise of the Workers' Party was: particularly poor achievement. For municipalities, children cannot provide the swim training they are going to do according to the curriculum. In 2009, only half of our 5th class could swim 200 meters without the aid, only two out of ten said they had learned swimming at school, and students with a foreign cultural background get very poor out there. The Swiss Confederation's verdict on the Workers' Party election vow came in VG this weekend: A little has happened after eight years with a red-green government. It is sad that the communication on sport has so few concrete measures to improve the situation. Outdoor bathing areas are excluded from the rules on recreational facilities, and with so many empty basins and tragic drowning accidents, it must be allowed to ask: What will the government do to change the rules so as to facilitate the refurbishment of more bathing areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e331	We've done several things to make it possible to build or rehabilitate a swimming pool. Let me take it first, and I'll take the outdoor bathing areas afterwards. One thing is that we have increased the free resources, making it easier for the municipalities to prioritize this. In addition, the addition of games to a swimming pool has been significantly increased over the last few years, and the additional bets for a 25 meter pool have increased from 4 million. DKK in 2001 to SEK 10 million. kr in 2011. We also consider a further increase in the rates of surcharges for symmetry systems with effect from 2014. In addition to the ordinary additions, 57 million is allocated. kr in funds from plant policy programmes for swimming facilities. We also have an interest compensation scheme for symmetries associated with school buildings. In order to stimulate the construction of cost-effective symmetries, we, in cooperation with the Norwegian Symje Federation, have made it possible to award exceptional grants for the construction of three cost-effective symmetries. Very short for outdoor bathing areas: Outdoor bathing areas are important, but with that...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e342	We may get back to the outdoor bathing areas, because now the next line is from Øyvind Hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e346	The Council of State indicates that there is a significant so-called backlog for the development of facilities, not least demographic changes in population growth – urbanisation creates a huge need for large-scale civil engineering investment in and around the major cities. Then the government in the communication has proposed to remove the special grant scheme for community facilities, and then very many of the actors we had consulted – at least no one said the opposite – say that no, it is very important to keep that scheme, because the pressure is so great against the big, high-performance projects that can quickly suck up all the funds. The question is: does the Council see the point that all these organisations have addressed that question, and is she concerned about supporting the community?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e353	At the end of the seventh, I believe that the change we have made in the message related to local environment facilities is about one who has confidence that the county councils and municipalities are able to give priority to the needs that exist. It gives more freedom, but also more responsibility to the municipalities and municipalities. From our point of view, it is a priority in the sense that they also have higher rates of support, because there is no doubt that the community facilities have too much potential for use in many groups. If the representative of Håbrek allows it, I can tell the representative of Hofstad Helleland that they are important outdoor bathing areas. But I don't imagine that they're going to be part of the game method because the pressure on the plant situation is so great.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e360	I don't dare to gamble on that I get two lines, so I'll try two questions in the same line. Sometimes it seems like there's a moral thing about which sports facilities you're willing to bet on, and which you're not willing to bet on. I don't know what that's going to be. My first question is why the tennis and tennis halls don't get the opportunity to get the same grant schemes as everyone else. The same is true of our open-air life. Our outdoor life mobilizes those who otherwise do not wear the training suit and it seems that the gym is the logical place to have fun. That is why it is important to have grant schemes also in the field of outdoors that enable us to mobilise precisely from a public health perspective, all of us who do not exercise. Why is there a little moral undertone that some sports facilities are very valuable, and some are not worth anything, as they mobilize different people and from a public health perspective are good?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e369	I would like to stress that it is not intended to do a moral ranking of the different facilities or hall types, but we take on the difficult job of saying something about what needs to be prioritized, what needs to be resolved first. There should be no doubt that the overall construction situation is rather precarious, that the pressure on this is quite high, and that it is therefore necessary and appropriate to give priority to installations with high potential for use. There is also some reason why we have chosen to give priority to what we have done. When it comes to outdoors, I agree with the representative, Skei Grande. Facilitating outdoor life is important. This is also why we have strengthened some of the arrangements that relate to outdoor life in this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e376	So the line chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e379	In this debate, many have already honoured the great sporting achievements of the Nordics in recent times – many of them trophies. Norway has probably only come so far to the fences again after the Alpine World Cup, the World Cup in ski shooting and the Ski World Cup. We celebrate them, but at the same time we remember how dependent they are on the volunteers, on support equipment and on teamwork. We all need fellowship. The sport has given us many national expressions: ‘Where were you then?’ and ‘To jump after Wirkola’ – and everyone remembers where they were when ‘Norway slo Brasil’. We remember it because we were there – we were there together. We rarely stand closer to each other than just when we experience sports. We jumped together and gave the Blue Wand, we hung in the chandeliers after Norway hit Brazil, and we are all worn out after being with and stacked up the rise, when we see our ski heroes win gold. The sport is about something larger than just the individual performances. It's about community around the TV, around the track, in the communities. It's about life between us as human beings, and we know that people who are in meaningful activity have a much better self-experienced health than others. We have also seen examples from the Grorud Valley, where good communities are being built together in sports to create a stronger life between people, to build the good community and to equip the children to meet a common future. But not everyone gets the opportunity to participate in this. Too many people are completely out of the question. Too many fall from youth. In some parts of the sport there are too high prices for both equipment and participation, and too many experience physical barriers that prevent participation. Many people today are inactive. It has consequences, above all for individuals, but also for the community, for the image of the disease and for lifestyles in society. It's a concern that even though we know that some people practice more than ever, it doesn't weigh up because we're so inactive the rest of the day. Therefore, removing these barriers and helping more people to participate must be a central political task. We have done that – through the key, through VAT compensation, through grassroots percentage. This gives money to installations, to organisations and to local work. And we're going to keep doing that. That's what this big message is about; how to build stone on the good foundation that we have. When we hear the opposition, I almost get down there. They are characterized by ideological dogmatism. They claim that the sport is almost chewed by the state, used as an instrument, and they are against the grass root. I don't think the opposition uses the opportunity to see the potential that lies in sport, in the community we can experience together, and I think it's reassuring that they will also take away 20,000 local enthusiasts by removing the grass root. That's not the way to go. We build further through the work that lies in this big message, and this will make it possible for us in the future to have new, big national events that we all gather around and build a good future for our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e394	Stortingsmeld The Norwegian sports model can be a very important document for Norwegian sport. It recognises the importance of the sport movement as an important factor in Norwegian society. However, I note that the sport is disappointed that for three-quarters of a year now work has been targeted towards Stortinget, meeting at hearings, making proposals to put in place important principles – but there has not been any results in this setting. We pointed out that it was important to look across departments, that there are challenges. We should also be able to discuss this possibility. These are challenges in building some installations, such as: swimming pools. Today, the government has power and great control over how this is to be solved, which may seem very, very incomprehensible. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has a responsibility for adult health and adult education. The Ministry of the Environment is responsible for outdoor life. The Ministry of Knowledge is responsible for schools. The Ministry of Agriculture is responsible for horse racing. The Ministry of Industry is responsible for industry — yes, sport has become an industry. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence is responsible for shooting. It's clear that this is difficult and bureaucratic, and it can be very unwieldy. Here we have some challenges that we should address. I brought up the 26-year-old state council for disabled people. A limit of 26 years has been set – I do not understand why it has ended in 26 years – just to be able to get equipment, transport support and accompaniment arrangements. You say everyone's going. The focus is that no one should stand outside. We have made proposals on this today, for which the government parties have the opportunity to vote. That proposal states – and it is absolutely undramatic – that a better system is to be explored than it is today. Instead, state councils say we're taking new rounds in the department. It's not taking everyone seriously. This could improve the ability of disabled people to combine education and sports careers or simply strengthen their ability to participate more and more in sport. New target groups and new objectives shall be included in the State sport policy, referred to in the Communication, and new actions and objectives shall be financed by means of instruments. But who and how? For the Progress Party, this appears to be very unclear. It may involve major changes to the system of the game and, as sport itself says, ‘less resources for organised sport and the objectives which sport itself prioritises’. The sport itself is concerned when you are not more clear than what you are in this message. The majority say nothing about the typing key challenges, either through games held by foreign companies or through the possible introduction of new games through the distribution key. Nor does it respond to the direct challenge of sport: the proportion of construction costs that the State sees fit to cover. The Communication wants to merge the arrangement for ordinary games and the community scheme, which the sport itself says is very unfortunate. The attitude leaves a strong impression that Norwegian sport is good, and that all efforts made are important both for the community and for the community. I fully agree with that. The recognition of the intrinsic value of the sport movement is clearly described, and that is very good, but there is no impact on the choice of the device. As sport says, the opposition appears through its comments as the strong champion of sport. Most of the sports recording has been included in minority comments, and it is understandable that sport is very, very pleased with it. But it leaves the impression that it's very regrettable that we can't cross-politically agree on what goals we have for sport, that at least we listen to sports when we ask for advice. That's the least we can do. I hope that the government will consider supporting the proposal for a 26-year-old age limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e424	The Committee notes a brilliant example from my county, Telemark, and the work of the Telemark Sports Circle to train and recruit young leaders. This is a concept called Active School 365, and they've had this as a high priority for the sports community over the last nine years. They have been working systematically on training and leadership for the elephants between 10 and 19 years of age. The sports team has implemented competence enhancement measures for teachers and added to the SFO, and they have implemented sports schools in the SFO. I think this work has great value both for the target group, for the sport movement and also for society, and I think there's good reason to notice this. In 2012, there were 270 young leaders and 26 schools in this concept, and this year there are already 70 new young leaders and 7 new schools with them. This leads to nearly 400 new young leaders and around 10,000 children and young people who each week are involved in this project in Telemark. This is important to meet the challenges of inactivity, which many have mentioned in the debate today, and it creates great sporting joy. This example is not only important because it is good for the recruitment of sports themselves or leads to increased and better activity in the school age, but it is also very good inclusion work. When the Minister of Culture and I were visiting the Telemark Sports Circle in January, they told us that they taught Bjørndal's method of how young learners should work with activity in an inclusive perspective. This story is about teacher Bjørndal who had a class where a girl in particular was exposed to gross bullying. One day this teacher took four elephants out of the classroom to talk to them. These weren't the students who bullied this girl, these were some others. To them the teacher said, 'No, it's none of you who bothered 'Else', it's not the ones who rattle with her when she has to read loudly an hour or push her or comment on what she looks like. It's Rune and Egil. But your responsibility is that they don't do anything to stop it. They have it in common that they are the most respected of the classes: best in gym, best in English, good in football, or just popular among all. No one has greater power than you in this class. But they use this power to sunbathe in, not to prevent Else from getting bullied, and not to make sure she gets involved, be with. It's pathetic, and I'm extremely disappointed in you," said the teacher to these students. He also said that he expected that they would take special responsibility for stopping it. The young leaders who are part of this concept have a great potential not only to contribute to more and better activity for those who do not feel like part of the community but to all participate. Students and youth themselves are often the best people to do just that – better than adults. One has also, through this project, motivated and inspired elephants and young people who have never before dared or could expect to rent anything. They build self-confidence, create inclusive joint activities in schools, and they recruit widely for the children's and youth sport in Telemark. These students become a resource for the school, for their middle class and for the sport team. I also want to praise sports throughout the country that are active in so many arenas with an active inclusion work. The inclusion perspective is central to the Workers' Party's sport policy for children and young people. I found the concept of Telemark to be a very good response to several of the important challenges we face when it comes to public health and inactivity issues — the importance of recruiting more and wider, recruiting more young leaders, and not least working to get everyone involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e443	I want to take from some of my own experiences of the reality we experience in sports. I have been involved in starting a common club forum for nine sports teams in the Groruddalen, where we help each other with some common problems – or what we politicians call challenges. In particular, problems have been encountered in developing the provision of sport to young people aged 13 to 19 years. For example, in football, which is our biggest sport, we have unfortunately seen that many teams have been laid down in recent years. The reasons have been ranging from disciplinary problems — to some serious ones — to the cost of being involved. We have had to set the activity fee up to NOK 3 500 per player. When there are more members of the family who are included, plus the quota, it can be too expensive. A third moment is a lack of leaders and trainers. Because the layers have small resources in terms of coaches and game developers, it has happened in several layers that the best players of very early age are picked up at top clubs like Vålerenga. The motivation and stimulation fall easily among those who remain. What we have focused on in this club forum and in the sports teams in Groruddalen is how we can develop more leaders, trainers and responsible people around the teams that can help prevent the problems we have seen, and develop a more positive trend. We see that in some places in Oslo – that is probably the case elsewhere in the country as well – the differences are great. In areas where we have a more ‘resourceful population’, parents and others are often in line to develop as, and become, leaders and trainers, and there is also good access to sponsorship. Elsewhere, as in the areas I know, we have a lot of problems recruiting managers, trainers and other responsible people, and we also have a lot of problems getting any of the sponsors. As a result, large differences in supply are likely to occur. To illustrate concretely, we are going to have the board meeting in Grorud Sports Act tonight. We have NOK 300,000 in activity and administration support, and for 1000 members we have to run A teams, wide-ranging, physical activity for children up to 3 years, and especially bet on them from 13 to 19 years – for NOK 300,000. This requires, of course, that we develop more voluntary resources, and that we have competence, for example. to resolve cultural conflicts, disciplinary problems, and to drive player development, etc. to attract young people between the ages of 13 and 19. Then I think we have to realize that these resources are very difficult to find in the areas where they are most needed, where the prevention of sport may be the most likely to lead to positive development – in areas that I mention, the cities of the Oslo East. In order to reduce the differences in supply and to develop sport in all areas and in all parts of the country, I strongly urge that, in the years ahead, what is called mainstreaming or big-town drugs be increased far beyond what is today’s level. I call for these funds to be targeted, above all, at providing and developing leaders, trainers and responsible persons in the sports teams, helping to build up the glue and decisive factor that they are – more than anything else – and providing these grants for integration, and big cities, as far as possible directly to the sports teams and avoiding their disappearance in project teams and bureaucratic planning. In the years ahead, of course, investment in installations, but also on the human factor, is still important to develop that part. To put it simply that it gets the layers fixed themselves by betting on the volunteers, and don't see that there are very big, different challenges in terms of that factor, I think is dangerous. I believe that that part of the effort on sport – leaders, responsible persons, trainers – and putting it in a different focus from what we have done now, will be crucial for our success on a broad front, something the sport has done here in the country until today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e456	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e459	I have to divide my post into two posts because I only have 3 minutes, so I will come back later. Today, we are dealing with the first sports message of almost 12 years, focusing on how the state should best facilitate how to participate in sport and physical activity at all levels of our society. It is about providing a good framework for all the teams in the country, and it is about the independence of sport and not least the peculiarity of sport. I am pleased that the Councils of State, both Anniken Huitfeldt and Hadia Tajik, have shown a great deal of commitment in the preparation of this communication to this day, not least in the field of sport – at hearings and in consultation – in this process. The Norwegian sports model describes both the foundation of sport and the local democracy we have in Norwegian sport. Norwegian sport is the greatest movement of people we have today, with over 2.1 million members, and with 12,500 sports teams, which exist in all the municipalities of the country, where thousands of volunteers each day do important work in our communities – for the benefit of children and young people. We see it, among other things. with all the fires that are nominated for the sports gallery, where the people are with and vote for the good ladies and gentlemen who every day do such a valuable work. In order to support the great voluntary work, it is important that we have good framework conditions. When I hear Right in this debate, it sounds as if nothing has happened in these years. However, since 2005, we have received a VAT compensation for goods and services that the government has stepped up to 950 million. kr in 2013, which shall be up to SEK 1,2 billion. kr in 2014. It's a system that benefits local teams and associations when they're going to do their business. Then we also have VAT compensation for the construction of sports facilities, which for this year is about 64 million. kr, where local sports teams can apply for compensation for the VAT costs they have. Most have received 100 pst. follow-up every year since the scheme was introduced in 2010, 2011 and 2012. The red-green government has also decided to change the key from 45 pst. to 64 pst. This means that approx. 600 million. kr more will go to Norwegian sport, either through local activities or for the construction of sports facilities, and to sport, top sport and public health measures, when the scheme is fully implemented in 2015. These aren't just promises, we do this every year and every day. We are introducing new measures that benefit Norwegian sport. This has also been done through other charging schemes, whether it is an employer’s fee or the pay limit for various volunteering tasks. You could think it's the state that's contributing all the money in a way, but I have to remind you that the municipalities are also contributing 5.1 billion. kr. I will come back to the rest of my next post.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e483	The health report presented yesterday points to challenges for the health of the North. Other countries pass us in our lifetime. Children wear mentally and overweight. Each year, child and adolescent obesity increases by 1 pst. Many youths sit 45 hours a week in front of a screen. It is from the age of six to seven that children become more passive. We have to moderate the impression that we are world champions in health, said the director of the Health Directorate, Bjørn Guldvog, yesterday. He urged us to keep a closer eye on the health of children and young people in Norway. Sport is an important actor in this very image and suggests that people are physically active. The government’s overarching goal of sports policy is summarised in the vision: sport and physical activity for all. Any person wishing to do so should have the possibility to participate in sports or to pursue self-organised physical activity. That's a good vision. The challenge is that the desire to engage in physical activity is unevenly distributed among the population. The degree of physical activity is related to socio-economic conditions, such as education and income. That's why we also get social health differences in Norway. There is always a danger that the sports policy may unintentionally lead to active ones becoming even more active, while the inactive ones remain inactive. The government announces in the Sports Communication that both inactive and young people and young people will still be the main target group for State sport policy. From a public health point of view, this is a wise and necessary priority. Outdoor activities and self-organised activities are examples of low-threshold services that need to be provided even in the future. We know that the level of activity falls into juvenile wounds. It's a public health challenge. It is positive that there is a particular focus on developing youth provision in the sports bulletin. I would like to add that the sport itself also has a responsibility to prevent the drop-out in youth by focusing on the transition between childhood and youth sports in the various sports circles and in different sports teams. I have great faith in giving children the opportunity to try out several different sports subjects, for example. in the form of sports balls. Letting children know and develop sports pleasures, often in several sports disciplines, is perhaps the most important preventive approach we can take to prevent juvenile ulcer withdrawals. For example, young people seem to be football is no longer fun, then they stop. It's a fact that the plural numbers end, but that the commercial training centers capture many of these. I actually found it positive that the commercial training companies contributed to it, because the option is that the young people like to use even more hours in front of the screen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e494	Many have mentioned the challenge of inactivity, so now I thought it was time to give those who are a little too inactive a voice in today's debate. A lot of nice things have been said about sports. It's in its place. I agree with all the roses and all the pretty things that have been said, except what Jan Bøhler said that Vålerenga is a top layer. There is an incredible amount of good in Norwegian sports both in width and on top. The plant situation is completely different if we compare ourselves with our own growth – for the better. Let's admit it, and let's end up with the black paint. It has, for example, struck me that today's youth hardly know what it means to play football on the gravel track. It was our everyday growing up. We kicked football – the kids are playing football today. We kicked football in the summer and went skiing in the winter. Today, youth plays and trains football throughout the year, even in winter. And they practice skiing all year round – on snow in winter and on roller skis in summer. I live in a region of the country with strong population growth. With more kids, more young people and more adults, we need to build even more sports facilities for the future. The vacuum system is formidable. Recently, I was in contact with Akershu Sports Circle. It was a useful and constructive meeting. They dealt with issues of economics, finance and the construction situation, but they also addressed the role and function of municipal sports councils. The impression from the meeting was that there is something different about how it works from municipality to municipality. They asked for firmer organisation and firmer forms of the work of municipal sports councils. I think it's something to remember. Then the huge lack of proper swimming facilities around, especially in Lower Rome, was raised to take my own district – an area of 150 000 inhabitants. It is very expensive to build a modern, decent swimming facility with today's requirements and standard. This is a type of installation which is neither a community, municipal or national installation. One single municipality does not have the ability and ability to build a modern swimming facility – and now I am talking about municipalities with both 50,000 and 30,000 inhabitants. So here it has to work together, both locally, regionally and nationally. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e511	Now the representative must come to an end – speaking time is up!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e514	It's a pleasure to see the broad and big commitment to sports policy that's in the hall across the board. That's said very wisely, but at the end of the debate I'll still mention a few things and clear up a few terms. It could be useful. It is important to see the relationship between public health policy and sport policy. At the same time, it is important to recognise that they have different objectives and tasks. Public health policy has several instruments, and an active sport policy is one of them. At the same time, sport policy must be based on a premise of the self-esteem of sport and recognise the independence of organisations as voluntary organisations. Sport policy, for its part, has more positive effects and side effects, and improved public health is one of them. It is said very well about Norwegian sport and the movement, and it is well deserved. One can almost get the impression that the whole country is running around in a exercise suit seven days a week, but there is also a significant challenge of non-response, especially among young people, in the message. More than half of young people between the ages of 13 and 19 are not members of a sports team. Here we have a significant challenge. I would also like to mention that it is a major challenge to facilitate much better sports for people with disabilities than what we can do today. The majority of these interventions have highlighted the importance of giving disabled people the opportunity, for example: to train with a so-called sport contact. Norway has at least been a leading country in some areas, but we have major challenges left. Finally, I would like to point out that seeing older young people and inactive adults as a challenge to people’s health, it is important to facilitate low-threshold services, to provide facilities and infrastructure that make it easy to be active in everyday life. In this area, outdoor life has a unique potential, and I am pleased that there is a broad consensus that outdoor life and its efforts should be strengthened. But I think there is reason to stress that outdoor life should be given special attention to the escalation that is now to take place in the future, and get even more support than what we have so far signaled, because here is perhaps the greatest potential for reaching those groups – as many have mentioned – that are extremely difficult to reach.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e532	Also when the Norwegian sports message is to be discussed, we record that representatives from the opposition are bringing out the black paint cost. When the representative of Hofstad Helleland is standing here on the pulpit and claims that the government is holding a damp hand over Norwegian sport through its sports policy, I respond. The Communication points out several places that the government respects the autonomy of sport, and something else should be lacking. The government contributes through the State grant to the organised sport and facilitates the activity. From here on out, they take over the sport, and they do a real and good job in that area. The representative of Hofstad Helleland is also wrong when she from this pulpit claims that sports facilities cannot be operated by sports teams because the government denies them. It's done in many places. All sports facilities in Alta are run by sport itself, and they are given the means to play. The great banner of the Left and Advance Party is the lifting of the monopoly of games and the release of all free market players on this arena. The representative of Korsberg says it's going to be played for 7 billion. NOK other than Norwegian Typing, and he may be right about that, and he claims that a large proportion of this money will be Norwegian sports. I think it's just a wishful dream that that's going to happen. We have examples from Denmark, as the Council of State stated in its answer, that we are actually talking only about small amounts of money – in many cases only those tax dollars that are taken in for Danish sport by the employees. I have no faith that Norway is able to negotiate contracts other than the Danish sport was able to obtain. I do not understand that the Progress Party and the Left want to help reduce the important contribution Norsk Tipping has towards Norwegian sport – that they dare, I would almost say. Many of us who have stood on the platform have talked a lot about sport and its significance. There is no doubt that it contributes a lot, and it also carries the sporting message off. But I don't think we should forget that other actors are important to create activity either: the Free Air Association and the Free Air Councils are doing an incredibly important job of creating activity in a little different venues than where we take time and measure length and height. So a great deal of thanks to them and the efforts they make, because it is important that they are also mentioned when Norwegian sports are discussed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e543	In my article instead, I was talking about public health, but I didn't mention mental health. In our modern society, too many people are struggling with mental problems. Physical activity is important in that way, but I want to point to the social aspect of sport, because there are many ways to participate in sports. It means a lot to many people to participate as volunteers or simply as spectators, where you enjoy following the performances of our top athletes or local actors. Sport is about participation in a community and is for many their most important social arenas and main identities — yes, for some it may be the very purpose of life. The Committee agrees very much with this report on sport, but there are also dividing lines here. The Right Party and the Progressive Party propose in their comments to vanquish the Norwegian sport model. They clearly believe that money should be spent on self-organised sportsmen without any organisational requirements. They only propose to allocate funds in relation to the estimated number of persons involved in an activity. Who in the world is to manage these funds, and how is it to be managed? It seems that the organisation of sports is just looting and embezzlement. In my view, teams and organisations are the very foundation of the Norwegian sport model and are the basis for why a small minority such as Norway can claim internationally, as we do. I also want to point to another area where there are differences between the political parties, and that concerns the relationship with Norwegian Typing. The Progress Party wants to grant licences to foreign gaming companies to play games in Norway. That's worrying, because the model we have with so-called nice games has actually led to a decrease in the number of game addicts. It shows both the number of requests to the Guide and research in this area. Experience from other countries shows that there are only pro-mills of turnover that will be transferred to sport, including the representative Simensen. These nearly eight years of red-green government have done a lot for sports – teams and associations. Yes, it is almost such that the sport itself has received a premium here, because the grass root fraction in 2012 was 340 million. kr, and the VAT compensation scheme is close to 950 million. kr and shall be increased to SEK 1,2 billion. kr, as has been said earlier. It is the largest investment in the voluntary sector over the state budget ever. Last, but absolutely not least, we have the changes in the key. It means a strong stepping up of grants for sport. The red-green government has delivered to Sport-Norway, and I really hope and believe that we will continue that work even for the autumn, for the benefit of sport and the many active and volunteers in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e556	Back to the Council of State and not least Øyvind Korsberg's posts related to Norwegian Typing and gambling monopoly: our experience from this hall is that Norwegian sport wants to ring the ring around Norwegian Typing and the gambling monopoly we have, which ensures local sports teams throughout the country a stable funding. We see that the results in Norwegian Typing, from having had a negative trend, are now moving in a positive direction, which means that Norwegian sport gets a greater share also through the key and the surplus of gambling. There was also criticism of this with the herbal remedies. In 2012, 340 million were paid. kr through herbicides for local teams and associations, and the pot, that proportion, is increasing for each year, thus increasing the contribution of more teams, more members and more clubs through that proportion. So for events: this sports message is not written in stone. Now we have seen a number of international events in foreign arenas, but Norway has great experience in international events in Norway, for example. World Skiing Championship in Oslo in 2011, World Skiing Championship in Trondheim in 1997, Olympics in the Lillehammer region in 1994 and Youth Olympics, which will come in 2016. Now we also see that a new process related to OL 2022, which is very exciting, where it is about the reuse of facilities in this region. At the same time, we have the VM in freestyle at Voss, we see that Bergen is working on getting the World Cup in bikes, and we have the Arctic Race of Norway, which one in a way has also been funded, the bike ride in North Norway. There's a lot of positive happening on the sports front through international events that create enthusiasm and increased activity around the country. Therefore, it is important that we look along the way at the opportunities to participate and support this important work that sports teams and special associations do every day. The equipment system is also important, as some people pointed out, that a Norwegian sport includes and prioritises funds for applications from clubs to equipment for local teams and associations, for good activity, and for children and young people to lose large proportions. Otherwise: Public health measures are absolutely necessary – increased physical activity. I just want to remind you that Stortinget has its own sport. We've put an activity card in all the shelves – a speaker Storting, so I hope that big business representatives will also take advantage of the good measures and contribute to better public health for everyone – both employees and inmates here in the house.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e569	It was today's challenge to this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e572	So far, this debate has really been a Norwegian championship to celebrate sport. I think I'm going to be careful with making a ranking, but Asphjell did go well in his last post the longest in that way, where he boasted of the amazing bike ride Arctic Race of Norway, where, therefore, the government has not contributed a single crown, but he is rude enough – forgive me for the statement – to take credit for it. I think it says "respect." It's been said a lot, and the red-greens have defended the grassroots pretty well. I find that a little strange, because there is a system that, to those degrees, is abused by individuals and also organisations, actually so much misused that the government has finally taken an initiative to change the legislation. I'm glad. There's money going to support clubs for Hell's Angels, to promote beer, to use those who have gambling addictions to get them to support their organizations, so there's a black middle. The grass root fraction is not a system that creates more funds, it just redistributes the same funds in a completely different way. Then there is probably a lot of consensus, and the representative Kjersti Toppe showed in this regard the importance of sport to public health. Then it is just so bad that the same representative cannot support the proposals of the Progress Party in one hour more physical activity in primary school and our proposal on money for youth, similar to the State guarantee for the Youth Olympics. It's quite strange to me. Then it is a well-known case that the Progress Party has a fine way of getting more money for sport by allowing foreign gaming companies to establish themselves in Norway through a licensing system where the State can participate in and determine the framework conditions. We say that part of that turnover – not the profit, but the turnover – is due to sport. The turnover is not a number you can trick away. Today it's played for 7 billion. kr abroad. Anyone can use their own calculator and put in the percentage and see how much money would have fallen into Norwegian sport if those funds had come to Norway. It's an interesting exercise, and I recommend more. The most important thing for me is not to fight Norwegian Typing, but to provide more money for Norwegian sport. It deserves Norwegian sport. I think it was quite interesting the answer that the Council of State gave me in the line exchange, where she said that there was broad support for the scheme, including among sports. I am aware that many sports circles are looking at this and want foreign gaming companies to be allowed to establish themselves in Norway. So I look forward to the next sport, where you might see the sense of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e585	At the bottom of the debate, I have just a few comments. Firstly, it concerns proposal 9. The right will vote in favour of proposal 9, and we should have really been involved in that proposal all the time. There's been an incursion here. So a few comments to Stokkan-Grande, so he can keep the night sleep. No, the right is not going to want to wind up the grass root fraction, but we think there is every reason to look at the scheme, given the irregularities described by the representative Korsberg, and I understand that the government is also aware. It is a very important point that we do not refer to grassroots proportions as means that we politicians or states – what we should say – should sunbathe in, as I experienced that, for example. The representative Grøtting did. So this is money that's common tips in and out, but that's redistributed to another key, and that gives a biased distribution, which should also worry. But now the scheme is once so that those who get the money notice it, and those who lose it don't notice it, and therefore no one feels cheated. In the same way, there is a redistribution of resources from poor parts of the organization to the resource forces, which can get many trailers into the system, and so it's not money that neither the Center Party nor anyone else can really sung in. This also applies to other tipping agents. I noticed that the Council of State was out and distributed 10 million. kr to swimming facilities the other day, which is also a residual pot of tipping agents. It is also a freeway to attention, but I admire her in and on it, but reminds me that there is no money allocated over any government budget. Then, in this context, my concern was also to comment on the legislation on construction. The reality is that, if combined, the legislation on VAT as well as drugs is currently in the way of flexible concepts both in terms of plant development and for more complex financial instruments, but it also stands in the way of full coverage of the creative forces and contact networks for which sport itself is responsible, in terms of mobilising for the construction of sports facilities. I also think there is reason to look at the low threshold system, and refer to the points that Skei Grande had about bowling halls.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e597	The representative, Jorod Asphjell, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e600	To the representative of Øyvind Korsberg: If he listened carefully, I said that this message was not written in stone, but that one must look at the possibilities of how the public can contribute much more in terms of international events. As far as Arctic Race of Norway is concerned, they have, among other things, fully financed it. through support from counties and municipalities and not least through A.S.O., which is the tour de France tour organiser. At the same time, local sponsors have contributed greatly. It is also the way sport finances different events on a daily basis. I also want to deal with this with the rules for toys. It can't be like we've seen, that when sports halls are built, the sports halls are used for concerts, fairs and various things that have nothing to do with sports, but at the same time they get funding through the gambling pot, which is supposed to contribute in a way to sports facilities. Therefore, it is important that we have a limit on how to use the games after the games have been paid out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e607	I would like to thank you for a good, exciting and engaging debate on the sports message. I'm excited that there's such a big, general, cross-political consensus about many of the measurements, even if there's disagreement between us. I just want to say two quick things to the representative, Olemic Thommess. That's $15 million. kr, not 10 mil. kr that has been set aside for the swimming facilities to which this is referenced. It is cost-effective swimming facilities. The invitation came from Norway's Smömmebund. They saw the need to build reference facilities that could make it easier for other municipalities to build cost-effective facilities. Such facilities are not only cheaper to build, but it could also have the consequence that they are cheaper to operate. It is one of the challenges one sees that many municipalities are struggling with, that installations are cost-intensive to operate. For us, it is an important goal that more swimming pools are built and that the swimming skills of Norwegian children, young people and others are improved. Finally, a cheerful remark to the same representative: there is no reason to be dissatisfied with the remark he himself receives. On the other hand, he was able to get attention in the VG because during the last five months he only asked me three questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e616	In Denmark, it is said ironically that ‘what the leaves say is true’. VG’s reference, to which the Council of State referred, must also be written – if we are to be willing with VG – in the incurrency account. It was not the representative Thommes VG had spoken to, but it was the representative Thomsen they had spoken to. I've never talked to VG about this. I think the representative Thomsen can confirm that it actually writes from a conversation he's had with the VG, where he's been annoyed that the Council of State is little to see in different contexts. I'm sure I'll join you on my own, but we'll be careful to focus on everything. A little comment also to the representative Asphjell, who thought it was so stupid that you could use sports halls for several things. Let me use a very specific example. The dice arena at Elverum I think is a great project. It's realized through a collaboration between the University of Hedmark, the Defense, I also believe Elverum municipality to some extent, and some private interests – not all the world, but some are. A fantastic sports facility has been realized, which during the Festival Games in Elverum – and probably sometimes also during the year – can be converted with simple grip into a concert hall with up to 2000 seats. That's an example that's probably worth looking at, and it's probably worth working on that kind of concept. If I'm going to end this debate with something positive, it had to be encouraging the Council of State to launch some pilots for that kind of experiment. Because it's something we're sure about, it's that the money for construction is not too many, they're rather too few. And whoever in this room is going to be the nicest to pull up the checkbook and grant in the east and west, it's not going to be enough. We have to work on finding new grips that realize projects that we can all agree on. I think the dice are a very good example of that. I don't think anyone would think it's a great project, and I think it's the potential for more people around the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e623	The President assumes that the representative meant pilot projects. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy. 2 and 3 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e652	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to six lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e663	The legitimacy and ability of the UN to fulfil its core functions as a normative political and operational actor depends on the organisation’s experience as relevant and effective. This means that the organisation must be able to adapt to developments in the international system, including with regard to representation and participation in the central decision-making bodies. Real strengthening of the UN requires reform and modernisation of nearly all levels of the organisation. The UN must also be able to respond to new and more complex types of challenges and crises. This is the core of what we are going to discuss today, and that is what an overall committee has been behind in the comments. Before I go further, I would like to take the opportunity to thank both the Committee for good work and those who have made recordings on the road and at the hearing. Some of them are here today, and I have to say I think it is particularly nice that Norway's UN ambassador has also taken the road to the Stortinget. The role of the UN as a norm maker and a norm developer is of particular importance, perhaps especially for a country such as Norway. Without the law of the sea, Norway would have been a completely different place than we are today. But changing power conditions in the world, as the big message also writes a lot about, represent, of course, a whole series of challenges for the United Nations as a system. Competition from other actors, like informal forums, is emerging. There is a strong competition from individual countries – in this context, China can be mentioned as a clear example – and there is competition from other actors, such as the United Kingdom. in the private arena. In particular, all these good challengers to the United Nations system, but that means that the way you've thought and worked for many years, is also being challenged. There is also a distinction between the role of the United Nations as a norm maker and a norm developer, where competition is not particularly strong, and the role of the United Nations as a development actor, where competition is particularly strong. This is something Norway, of course, is also aware of in its UN work. The UN has been the driving force behind the international legal order that prevails today. Much of international law originates from the United Nations system, and we, as a small nation, should be happy about that. A small country needs central driving rules that do not always produce the strongest. Some claim that the UN's lack of action in some areas today is merely a matter of the will of the major powers to use the organisation and the UN principles. That is so true. But the UN's ability to engage the multilateral system is not just a matter of political will to cooperate with the Member States. Reforms of the UN are also needed to reflect changes in world power. The distribution of power in the UN was designed in a way that takes into account the challenges facing the world after World War II. Reforms have been on the stairs for decades, but without so many results. Many new countries and new actors now require their place in the system. The discussion is not just a question of the composition of the UN Security Council. It is so much a discussion and a question of power, with the distribution between, on the one hand, the Secretary-General, on the other, the General Assembly and, on the third, the Security Council. These are often 20–30 year-old discussions that do not take into account new power relationships and that continue in the same tracks they have done before. It can be said in many ways that what is now happening to the role of the United Nations in Syria is also an example of the UN's limitations, which cannot be agreed on, for example. sanctions, which would have been a good step forward. The promotion and maintenance of human rights is one of the most important tasks of the United Nations. That's one of the three columns of the UN work. It is therefore problematic that human rights work lacks resources, both in the field of human rights centrally and not least on the ground in each Member State. An overall committee believes that Norway, as an active participant and contributor, needs to put even greater pressure on the UN to find a more balanced distribution of resources so that a greater proportion is channelled into the work on human rights. Today only 3 pst. of the UN resources for one of the three pillars, namely the work on human rights. It is in the United Nations that there are many other places: political attention is very much where the money is. It is particularly important to make improvements to the system of special rapporteurs and to strengthen and clarify the mandate there. It is positive that Norway will be able to carry out independent reviews of projects, but the Storting also expects the results of these reviews to be published. Central to the work on human rights is the work of the UN Human Rights Council. Much can be said about the composition of the Council and the procedures for the composition of the Council, and it is clear that it is a challenge for legitimacy that many countries that systematically violate human rights can also become members of the Human Rights Council. The right has written in its comments that we want an external evaluation of Norway's efforts in the Human Rights Council when we had membership. One thing is to participate in the council, another thing is the way we participate. Some of the feedback that has come is that we did not particularly use membership to propose individual countries. We attended where other countries went ahead and took leadership. We have not had proposals for decisions, but we have had contributions at the theme level, and many have pointed out that we should be more likely to stand up as a clear force even as a nation. It is also a key point to recognise the country's own responsibility for following up the work on human rights. It is not just the UN or other organisations that can take care of it; it is the countries that have to take responsibility for it on their own. And there is no doubt that fundamental civil and political rights are under strong pressure in many countries. It's a big challenge. There is also a need for a systematic follow-up of evaluations of the efforts of UN organisations, with clear re-priorities and budgetary implications. It also mentioned Development Minister Heikki Eidsvoll Holmås during a debate with me on Dagsnytt Eighten yesterday: that when Norway has started to do so, there are also results in the form of noticing that we are making repriorities. But it is also important to stress that we cannot do that work alone. There is very little impact if Norway alone sets criteria, or Norway alone draws funds to organisations, without doing so in cooperation with other countries. Here I might particularly stress the importance of working together at Nordic level, and also with other European countries or other countries where we have a natural community of interests. It is a challenge for any UN organisation to risk meeting a set of 193 countries that each promote 10–15 criteria on how to manage the organisation. It's not feasible. In January I was in Vienna and had a meeting with the head of UNODC, Sandeep Chawla. He told me that the organisation was meeting the challenges very much right now, because most donors were slowing down their allocations while performance requirements were increasing, but breaking down in all directions. Thus, it was then impossible to comply with these criteria. The right is dependent on Norway maintaining strong core contributions to the UN organisations, of course, subject to delivery in line with the assumptions we make. But the important thing about maintaining core contributions at a time when many donors are withdrawing core support and choosing to use project support is that it is not going to be good projects without a strong core support, a strong organisation, which is actually able to carry out the projects that individual donors provide money for. That's why it's very important. A Joint Committee has also identified some challenges with the UN peacekeeping operations and their implementation. It is linked to mandates, to command and control and to uneven burden-sharing between financial actors — i.e. those countries that provide the most money for operations — and the countries that contribute the most with troops. There are many challenges for the UN that are now being used in many contexts — or at least requested — to intervene more and more places, when some of these systems are difficult to implement, but of course also difficult to get an order that allows all countries to stand behind them. Finally, I would like to say that we are now for a week when the United Nations has met on women. Tomorrow we'll be celebrating women's day. I just want to stress that what Norway is going to do in the United Nations, both in terms of women and violence, is extremely important, especially because we are seeing more and more of what I would call unholy alliances of countries that are trying to put women's rights at the back of the queue and that are breaking down the work that is built up. In this context, I can mention that Iran, the Vatican and Russia together are a very bad alliance in that field. The second is that Norway has to play an active role in the discussion on the post-2015 agenda of the Millennium Goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e707	We live in a changing world. The major challenges facing the world's society are breaking national borders. Climate crisis, economic crisis, increasing inequality, social unrest and human rights violations can only be resolved jointly. At the same time, we see that new powers are coming forward, and that we have a change in the balance of power in the world. Therefore, discussing the role of the United Nations in this development is very interesting, because the world looks different today than it did when the United Nations was established. We need to ask questions about whether the organisation is able to meet the challenges we are facing. Norway has always been a strong supporter of the UN, and still wants to be. The UN has a number of functions and roles. The UN has a normative function and is responsible for ensuring the international legal order. It's important. But we see that there is a gap between the development of standards and the actual implementation capacity. The UN has a role as the organisation that can legitimize the use of power, but we know that when the Security Council does not agree, as in Syria, legitimacy can be challenged. The UN should also be the great protector of human rights while at the same time playing a central role in development and global common good. The organisation therefore has a number of tasks that it must be able to perform. Many things work well in the United Nations today, but it is quite clear that there is a need for reforms to make it more effective and to achieve results. But it assumes that the Member States give the organisation strength to do that job. Reforms are needed at all levels. The Communication addresses the need for reform of the Security Council and it is clear that the Security Council needs to be reformed. The power conditions in the world have changed, but it's not reflected in the composition we have today. And there's a lot of disagreement about how it should be. And then we have the discussion about the veto right. There's also a lot of disagreement. For example, the five permanent members would like to see not to waive it, nor to allow new members, possibly new permanent members, to obtain it. So reform of the Security Council is not easy. But I think it is important that Norway continues to keep that tab high. As the Committee's chairman also said, it is the International Women's Day tomorrow. Then it feels natural to say a little about the importance of the UN for women's rights and for equality. For Norway, it is essential to promote women's rights in international forums, and in particular in the UN, because the UN is important for women. Through the Women's Commission and the Women's Convention, women have been put on the agenda, and most countries have actually committed themselves to abolishing discrimination against women. We have a number of resolutions. We have established UN Women. Over the thousand-year-olds, we've also had a powerful women's campaign, such as the fight against maternal mortality, to mention something. So it's doing a lot of important and good that means a lot too many. But now, as the chairman of the committee also said, we feel that established rights have been put under pressure. We see that we have an alliance of conservative states, non-governmental organisations and religious communities that systematically work to weaken the work that has been done and that Norway has gone into the break for. In particular, the sexual and reproductive rights of women apply. These days, the UN Women's Convention has brought together ministers, NGOs and gender equality actors in New York for its annual meeting, where this year's theme is the abolition and prevention of violence against girls and women. Last year you didn't have the ability to come up with a final document, precisely because there was a campaign of those I mentioned, and the same thing happens this year. It's the most incredible alliances, with the Vatican at its head, allying with, among other things. Iran, which has brought with it many other countries, both Catholic and Muslim, and conservative forces in the United States – now I thought the Vatican had other things to worry about a day. This situation is very serious. I must say that I am proud that we have an equality minister who spoke against all these when she made her contribution to New York. It was brave, but also necessary. Then we're going to have to hope that we get a final document this time, but Norway must never agree to a document that weakens the policy underlying it today. Norway is still going ahead for equality, and we have to work long-term and hard if we are to succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e730	I would first like to thank the chairperson of the Committee for the good work done on the matter and for contributing to a very focused position that has a general view, but nevertheless focuses on some of the main challenges. I'll be allowed to start with that also the two previous speakers were inside, the women's perspective. I was present at the UN General Assembly when the first government was to be elected in the UN Women. Then I was very satisfied with Norway's work. It's not always in such contexts – you're largely satisfied, but here I was very pleased when Norway used its influence to prevent Iran from getting a seat on the board of UN Women. It was an important mark – creating alliances and being clear on who does not deserve a place in such an organisation. I could wish for more of that clarity in other contexts and in similar cases when it comes to women, it's about universal human rights, freedom of expression, etc. – not just that we are clear, but we could work to prevent countries like Iran and its counterparts from getting a seat on the starboard. In Norway, we are extremely religious in the United Nations, and asking challenging questions about the United Nations in this country is probably one of the most politically incorrect things to do. The current perception is that the UN represents international order, peace and human rights. No other international organisations can compare with the UN in confidence and popular support. As you can see, the UN is in a special class. I will by no means try to rock this fundamental image of the United Nations, because the United Nations is important and irreplaceable, and the United Nations serves Norwegian interests. If the UN did not exist, the establishment of such an organisation should be at the top of our political agenda. The law of the sea and international law have been mentioned. I'm not going to go further into it. When we and others come up with criticism of the UN, it's not about tearing down the organization, but rather about making it more effective, better able to solve its tasks and not least be even clearer in relation to its mandate. It is said that the UN does not get better than the Member States allow. That is quite right, but the UN is based on some values that all countries have committed themselves to. The goal must be that the UN helps all countries to reach these values – one must measure towards something. Letting members who are obviously authoritarian to define the priorities challenge the foundation of the United Nations, and it challenges us as democratic states. Although we believe the UN is important and absolutely necessary as an international actor in many areas, we should not be naive. We see that several of the areas in which the UN would naturally play a role are in the process of being taken over by others, in whole or in part. This applies, for example: in health, but also at a more general level in relation to the G20 and the challenges there. It is not necessarily an expression of deliberately undermining the UN, but it is a clear signal that the UN lacks efficiency and often implementation. That is why there is an alarming need for reform. Without the necessary reform, we are at risk of the UN being played out and less relevant. Being clear in the demand for reform is not a reflection of negative attitudes, rather the opposite. The problem does not seem to agree on the need for reform, although the kind of reform you want is not always as easy to see. The main problem is to implement it. Norwegian administration may seem very conservative, but in relation to the United Nations, even the Ministry of Finance appears to be a dynamic and changeable entity. Although the fronts of the reform debates are certainly moving and the alliances differ from what is being discussed, it is often so that countries like Norway and other major contributors are stronger in the desire for reform than countries that do not fund the organisation in the same way. We have to ask ourselves how long we will continue to finance such a large part of the organisation unless those who are most dependent on our contributions are not willing to implement the necessary efficiency improvements. Duplicating activity is a core problem, the need for tighter mandates as well. This, of course, applies throughout the UN family. Something's happened. Some parts of the UN have come a long way, others a lot shorter. It may not be that any global problem needs a new UN organisation or at least a large conference or series of conferences. It is a paradox that it is more cost-effective to operate the United Nations agency GRID-Arendal, which is an office under the United Nations Environment Programme, UNEP, here in Norway than to operate an ordinary United Nations office in Nairobi, because GRID has a looser link and can free itself from the United Nations' rigid organisational requirements. Moreover, I would like to commend the GRID-Arendal for the job they do not least to assist countries in clearing their base off their own coast. This is practical work that is involved in and supports the Treaty of the Law of the Sea. When they are as effective as they are, I am not afraid that Norway – and if not Arendal – will have more UN activities, but that should be done under the same conditions as for GRID, so that reform is actually implemented by depriving itself of something from the UN bureaucracy, but nevertheless maintains a professional and political link. Security Council reform is absolutely an important objective, but we are of the opinion that this is not a topic where a lot of political and diplomatic energy should be used. There are good reasons to discuss changes, but it is also very unlikely that such changes — at least major fundamental changes — will take place. We think energy should be focused elsewhere. Why in the world would one of the five permanent members of the Security Council, who also have veto, renounce this? It's very unrealistic. All countries are the same, but some are obviously less similar than others. The hate object in the UN is Israel. No other country gets so many country-specific resolutions targeting itself. In 2011, there was more than twice as much condemnation of human rights violations in Israel as in Sudan. Sudan was number two on the list and Syria number three. Even during the worst acts in Syria, various UN institutions have spent more time and energy on Israel than on Syria – much more time. Now, of course, it's not that Israel should not get criticism or not deserve criticism, but the bias is obvious. In the General Assembly there are several of the countries behind the strongest criticism, which still do not recognise the 1947 UN divisional plan, which established the State of Israel. In the UN Human Rights Council, we have experienced special rapporteurs who have both denied the scope of the Holocaust and promoted anti-Semitic attitudes. In parallel with this open fight against the State of Israel, for example, there is a choice. Syria as an important entry in a decolonisation committee. This happens as late as this year. Of course, Israel would have been completely excluded from such elections, but Syria is obviously still in a constitution where they are welcomed in the good company of parts of the United Nations. Unfortunately, this merges into the range of choices in which countries with obvious shortcomings in human rights and democracy are set to lead such work. It's important to get everyone involved, but when countries like Pakistan and Cuba use their powers to prevent criticism of their own challenges and derail what should have been important, we have to respond. This gives the entire United Nations system a bad reputation, and it also derails the efforts to set up a peace process and reinforces the lines of conflict. We cannot continue to allow the UN to be abused in this way. Finally, I have a few words to say to the peacekeeping forces: there are significant challenges in this area, and the Committee addresses some of them. I would like to say that some of the mandates that have been in existence for many years – I would like to highlight, for example. Cyprus, as I have done in the past in this Chamber – one should basically look at it. How long will the UN be a participant in Cyprus, without any movement? There have been attempts at movement in recent years, but no movement has happened. It makes little sense what happens, for example. in Cyprus. I could also use other examples. It is necessary to have a continuous renewal of the mandate, which also makes clear demands on the parties to move forward in such locked conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e762	For the Christian People's Party, it is important that there be a solid uprising about the UN and that international law be at the heart of Norwegian foreign policy. But, as has been said, we have long seen that the UN as an organisation needs much reform. We need a more powerful, results-oriented and effective UN. To achieve this, we need systematic evaluation, control and transparency. Improvement is important in itself, and, of course, because the tasks of the United Nations are so important. This applies not least to the task of the United Nations as a legislator and guarantor of the international legal order. And for such a small country as Norway, after all, the UN is all the more important, and the international legal order is particularly important. Sometimes debates about the UN can give the impression that we give a lot to the UN, but get very little left. For me, it's a little short-sighted. We then overlook the developments that the United Nations has had, for example. in the case of international law, which has actually had a significant impact on the prosperity we have in this country today. The main example of the marine environment is precisely that of the marine environment. Norway has, inter alia: Through UN work, we have extended our fishing limits, and we have been given the right to have huge oil and gas resources on the continental shelf outside our long-range country, thanks also to the UN and the United Nations system. In fact, Norway would not be the same without the rights we've been granted through international law. The UN does not just have a role as a normist. We've got a United Nations that has a significant role as an operational actor and a service provider. The UN organisations provide a wide range of services in almost all fields, e.g.: humanitarian work, coordination of crisis response, long-term development, advisory and monitoring work, mediation work, peacekeeping tasks and much more. As a service provider, UN organisations must also withstand being assessed against alternative channels. Many UN organisations are in need of improvement. We're a big contributor, and so we also have reason to have influence. We have to use it in the boardrooms, and I refer to a debate we've had on it in the past, among other things. as a result of a report by the Riksrevisionen. We can also recruit more Nordics to UN positions, and we can influence by giving more support to those organisations that work well, and holding back from others. It's been about reform, and there's good reason to say that we're talking about more than a reform that requires the United Nations Fifth Committee to have a changed drinking pattern, as I see from today's newspapers. What has been high on the reform agenda is the reform of the Security Council. Everyone sees that the conditions of power have changed significantly since the adoption of the UN Charter, and it is no longer reflected in the composition of the Council. As a result, the representativeness is also weakened. At the same time, it is a challenge that some of the new major powers do not fully share the visions and values for which the UN is going to fight. One example of this is human rights, where the UN should be a driver and watchman. But in practice, the UN has become a battleground between liberal legal states that want to strengthen human rights, and counter-powers that support sovereignty and non-interference in the internal affairs of states. Reform work is also under way because none of the veto acts will give their own privileges, of course. The government clarifies in the notification – as far as we can see – not what is a Norwegian strategy for reforming the Security Council. What kind of composition will Norway work for? We present that challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs in today's debate. You can say a lot of good and negative about the United Nations, but I guess we'll take it that the United Nations never becomes more than what the Member States actually do. This presents a major challenge, including for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e781	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a very good and collective attitude. It is an area of Norwegian foreign policy that is both given great weight and where there is also broad consensus, and I think that is very important. It is important to take care of it, and it is important, with reference to the point of representative Höglund, that a country that believes in the UN and which believes that the UN should be strengthened, also dares to take the critical debate. There will be a misunderstood way of supporting the UN, if only to applaud what is going well, without drawing out what is going bad. Then I want to say that I very much appreciate that in the Committee's position, as in the Communication, it is so clearly reflected that Norway has a clear self-interest of the UN, of international law, of the law of the sea, as the most immediate example. But it is only one of the very many areas where Norway lives well on that we have an orderly international legal status, and that we are strengthening and investing in the international legal state. It was said that Norway was a small country. We are, I guess, still in the population context. But we're the world's 24th largest economy, so if you had G25 instead of G20, you would have been a clear member. This is probably also the case – as an energy storm power, a global committed player, a large investor and a country that provides multilateral solutions. So we have both direct and indirect interests – interests that are ours, and interests that we share with others. In that light, we should understand the UN. The UN, as the committee chairman said, is unsurpassed in the normative arena. The fact that 193 countries, i.e. practically all the countries of the world, are members of the United Nations, gives the United Nations a weight that no one else can be said to have. As a norm maker, the UN is therefore of particular importance. It is also the case that over the years the UN has evolved into a large operator and a large provider of services. Here too, I agree that there is a difference in the effectiveness of the United Nations in these two arenas. I think it is very important to note that what the current Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, has put particular emphasis on – especially now in his second period – is the development of partnerships, where, instead of creating ever more organisations, funds, programmes and special organisations, rather than providing broad alliances between different UN organisations on the one hand and other organisations and private initiatives on the other, for example. in the field of health. Much of the reason that we've come a long way in delivering important parts of the Millennium Goals is that ability to build broad alliances. Maybe there's something here pointing forward for the United Nations? It's an important debate to take. So I would like to say a few words about the issue of reforming one of the two most important agencies in the United Nations, the UN Security Council. After all, the Security Council has been given by the world community special powers that no one else has, simply a supranational authority to decide on issues such as war and peace. Offensive use of power may, as is well known, be used in self-defence, and if it is not used for self-defence, it must be done by decision of the UN Security Council. That is why the legitimacy and effectiveness of the Council is incredibly important. It's a broken picture. We saw in 2011 that the Security Council was able to gather on important decisions, both in Côte d'Ivoire and Libya. We see these days that the UN Security Council has managed to gather in increasingly clear messages against North Korea. It is very important for world peace that the United States, China, Russia and the other permanent members now have the same approach to what is happening around North Korea's nuclear programme. There we see in many ways that the UN Security Council is doing what is expected of them. At the same time, we have – as many people have been involved – Syria, where we cannot gather together. As I was in my foreign policy statement a short time ago, it is the responsibility of the five permanent members of the Security Council to take more seriously hold on that situation. That's not the same thing as saying that we, or someone else, have the final formula. But the fact that they're split is a problem in itself. We have solid experience showing that regional, local, national and international conflicts are getting worse when the Security Council is fragmented than when the Security Council has an overall position, whether direct interference or not. In this respect, I must also be allowed to say that we have expressed our disgust and condemnation of the fact that there are now several UN officials who have been kidnapped by parts of the opposition in Syria. It is an unacceptable behaviour, and the officials must be released immediately. There must be special respect for those who stand up on behalf of the world society in such situations. For this reason, it is important that we have a debate on the composition of the UN Security Council and the functioning of the Security Council. It is quite right, as has been said, that a fundamental reform of the UN Security Council is not near at hand. It's been discussing along pretty much the same lines for decades. The reason why it does not change is – as has already been said earlier in the debate – that the veto acts also veto changes in their own status, and they do not go ahead to share that power with others, to put it that way. This applies to vetomafts in both east and west. At the same time, we need a fundamental discussion before we go in and pick the individual countries that might get our support to become members. The current system is a system that existed in 1945, before the smoke after World War II had subsided. Then those who became the great victors wanted to make a kind of big act concert: every country is the same, but some countries are the same as others. Some countries would then have both permanent seats and veto rights, while others would be less likely to participate according to a rotational principle. Norway voted in favour of this. Norway's negotiator was Trygve Lie, then Minister for Foreign Affairs. He argued for, and backed up about, that solution. I think it was right, given the power of the day. That was the best thing to do then. Fresh experiences from the failed League of Nations in the 1920s and 1930s were also brought with them. The question is, in the 21st century, whether to repeat that model only by adding a few new countries, or whether to go more fundamentally to work. When we talk about a fundamental reform, it's simply an invitation to a slightly broader discussion about it. Should e.g. Does the Security Council capture the fact that after 1945 strong regional associations have developed which barely existed, and were barely intended, in 1945? The EU is one example, the African Union another, and also eventually what emerged as ASEAN. There are several other examples. Should there be a direct connection between them and the Security Council? We don't have a final answer to that. How are new Member States to be seen as representative of more than themselves? That must be the argument for a changed composition. Just because we think we have some time in that debate, and because no proposals have been accepted so far, we believe that Norway is a country that can well go ahead to take such a discussion. Then I want to underline the emphasis we put on the UN's work on human rights. I talked a lot about it in my presentation. I would also like to stress that the UN and the UN Human Rights Council and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights are, of course, central to this work. In line with the Committee's wishes, we have for a longer time worked with other like-minded countries to increase the allocation of funds to, for example, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and Human Rights in general. We have been committed to putting important thematic issues on the agenda of the Human Rights Council while we were there, not least the defence of human rights defenders, i.e. the protection of those who stand for human rights. We've also been involved in country-specific situations a number of times. In the broad field, I too would like to emphasise what is happening right now: the work of the Women's Commission – at all – on gender equality and women's rights – but also on minorities, not least the rights of sexual minorities. Here, the world through the UN has made significant progress, but we are now in a situation where we see threats from old and new teams. Norway simply wants to be at the forefront of meeting the negative developments and keeping us on a positive track. That's why this is a topic that will be very central to the broad work on rights that we want to be at the forefront of.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e807	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e810	As regards Security Council reform and the composition of the Security Council, the Foreign Minister gives a good description. It is not difficult to agree with the reasons why such a fundamental debate is correct and necessary, including in time. But is it the correct use of political energy to get into it? The Minister of Foreign Affairs has been hosting Oslo recently for a conference to end nuclear weapons, and honor him for it. Should not the power be invested in such thematic areas rather than in something more suitable at a student seminar?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e817	The question is good. I would say so that there would be completely wrong use of time if this was what we spent all the energy on. On the contrary, there are a number of more acute and immediate challenges, including the UN work methodology and ability to deliver as a whole and coordinate efforts, which are at least as important here and now. My point was that precisely because we now have a certain amount of time because it is not a debate that seems to arrive at an objective in the near future, that debate should be held. I note that very many of the emerging powers are asking for that debate. We can live with the composition that is now, but there are a number of countries that are now becoming increasingly important in the global arena, which requires that debate to be taken. We must do this because we also expect those countries to take joint responsibility for the international system, economic and political. Then we cannot just reject that debate, we must have a real position in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e824	I would like to look into what both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Chairman of the Committee spoke about, namely this with these unholy, or new, alliances that we are constantly seeing. It's women's day tomorrow – I'm going to celebrate it in Paris. We have also noticed this in the Council of Europe. There were two votes from the Council of Europe condemning women's right to self-determined abortion. I wonder what the Foreign Minister thinks about what opportunities we have to break these alliances and be on guard, so we don't get any dramatic decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e830	I thank you for an important question. First, I want to say that the first thing we have to do is make sure to keep order in our own house, so that no questions are asked about the abortion law we have here in Norway. I believe that is an important domestic policy issue with foreign policy dimensions. Because if that were going to happen, I think it would just please the unholy alliances we talked about, so here I encourage everyone to think well about. As for the alliances out there, I'd say two things about it. What's alarming and serious is that they're clear, they're organized, and they're moving in the wrong direction. What's positive is that they're trying to use the institutions we've created to talk about just this kind of question. It is better that they take the questions to either the Council of Europe or the United Nations than that they only do it on their own, because then we also get an arena. It shows the importance of the UN and the multilateral system and corresponding regional organisations for the international normative discussion, and it is good to see that there is that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e839	I had the pleasure of being a delegate to the UN General Assembly in the autumn of 2009. It was a very instructive and good stay. Of the issues raised several times in the meetings we had there, not only was the competition UN meets from other countries and other organisations, but also the internal competition between UN organisations. There was particularly one theme that went back often, and it was that the UNDP has gradually become so big that it eats up the characteristics of other organisations. It is therefore also difficult to coordinate the efforts well enough. I would like the Foreign Minister to say a little about what Norway thinks about competition between the different organisations. One problem is that many countries are suddenly experiencing very many UN actors on the ground in a given country, and that it is difficult to coordinate their efforts between them. But if, in addition, some UN actors eat up in the areas of the others, thereby duplicating capacity in many places, then operating such an important organisation is an inefficient way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e846	Once again, this is a very important issue. Now I am also going to be very careful to eat in the field of the Minister for Development, since the Minister for Development is present in the Chamber and certainly believes a lot about this. But I would like to say in general that for many years Norway has been very central to the work of a UN ‘delivery as one’ — integrated operations in peacekeeping work — and in a number of other areas focused on how the UN organisations must work better together. It is a matter of prioritizing and setting clear goals, and not of starting to think about what the different organisations can and want to do, but what one needs to do in a particular country or region, and then assigning the tasks after that. It is not easy, and the Secretary-General has limited powers to solve that problem, precisely because so much of the resources are directly directed to organisations. Different countries have different favorite organisations, which then – let's say – get a hedgehog outside that supports that they should do just that. I believe that one of the most important reform agendas that makes sense here and now is to continue working with one UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e853	However, I will continue a little in the same track, but in a slightly different context: one of the bodies that was at the hearing in the Committee, the Human Rights House Foundation, raised relatively sharp criticism of the UNDP because the organisation is too closely linked to the authorities of the countries in which they operate. That means they're leaving out to deal with human rights in particular. They mentioned the Caucasus in particular, where UNDP has been too close to authoritative regimes in many countries, leaving behind one of the pillars on which UN work is based, namely human rights. What leads and discussions do Norway focus on in the dialogue with UNDP and others to prevent that kind of thing from happening?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e860	It's a well-known phenomenon that when a United Nations organization, whether it's UNDP or the United Nations, works closely with a country's government, it can lead to real progress. Cooperation on human rights issues and rights issues in general and one feels in a way that one has ownership of the relative progress. It means refraining from criticizing the obvious weaknesses that are there. This has been discussed and discussed a number of times — how can you make sure that you are both a partner on the inside and a critic a little from the outside, in the same situation. You can do that, for example. by dividing the roles and by a higher level of awareness. I want to confirm that this is a problem we are concerned about, and that is real. Norway’s view is that it is not necessary to leave the road to tell us about critical issues related to human rights. We want, as we will soon hear, to twist more of the aid to follow up concrete human rights progress and punish the opposite. It's an ongoing work to find this balance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e867	With regard to UN reform and the Security Council, I conclude that the Foreign Minister wants better representativeness, but is open to how it might happen – so I will leave that to myself. But the Foreign Minister was concerned about the very regrettable situation we now have in Syria, linked to those who are making humanitarian efforts. I guess we see that there is a greater and greater danger that those who are unwilling to respect humanitarian law will have greater leeway or greater leeway. It is incredibly negative for the civilian population in the various areas. My challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is simply: how does he view the developments we are now witnessing?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e874	I'm looking at that development with the deepest seriousness. That's just the way it is: we now see a further deterioration in the behaviour of the Assad regime, of course, but also from large parts of the rebel movement. Direct attacks on health workers and other humanitarian personnel, targeted shooting at hospitals and ambulances, for example, are a very serious situation. In close cooperation with the International Red Cross Committee, we focus on this in particular and work with countries that are even closer to the different parties than we might be doing, in order to recall the obligations and possible sanctions that may in the future result from non-compliance with humanitarian law. In our dialogue with the Syrian opposition, we recall that they must lead by example. They shall build legitimacy in their work of getting a new government in Syria. Then they also have to be concerned about these things themselves. It's very serious. We're very engaged.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e881	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e884	I had the pleasure of joining the Great Britain delegation to the UN General Assembly in 2005. I think most people who have been involved have experienced what I experienced. When we were around the different offices and organs of the United Nations, the red runner was rolled out, because here came representatives of one of the biggest contributors. As you can see, we are an important supporter of the United Nations. But it must not mislead us into believing or thinking that we are more important to the United Nations than the United Nations is to Norway. The United Nations is the main political arena of international society, a central institution for international legal development, state building, the protection of human rights, development and humanitarian policy and crisis management, and a very central – as many have stressed – normist, as an overall committee expresses it in its comments. The UN is the cornerstone of a world in which joint institutions and conventions regulate relations between countries. It is more important for smaller countries than too large countries. The law of the sea is an important key, such as: The representative Hans Olav Syversen put great emphasis on this. This perspective must be above our policies in and towards the UN. I do not think some of the particular comments from the opposition parties fully take this basic perspective into account. Because the UN is important, it is important that UN bodies and organisations function in the best possible way. Therefore, Norway has been very active in reforming and improving the UN. Two Norwegian prime ministers, Gro Harlem Brundtland and Jens Stoltenberg, have both been on committees that have worked on this. We haven't just been the great supporter of the United Nations. We have also been – and should still be – a demanding support player. However, it is – as has been pointed out both in the setting and in the debate – important that the requirements and evaluations of the various bodies, in particular those providing services on the ground, are as coordinated as possible, so that they do not have too many to deal with. I would like to comment on some of the particulars. The party of progress is most critical to the UN, although, fortunately, the mindful opinion of the party's leader on the UN as a threat to world peace has not been reflected in the vote. The party believes that Norway should be able to make greater demands on priorities and make demands on what the money is spent on. Norway is one of 193 member countries. What kind of efficiency will we have if all donor countries set their priorities and what money is spent on? These are among the reasons for the lack of coordination, which was just affected by the exchange of replies here, between different UN units — sponsors who make too many special demands. This must be done through the overall leadership adopted by the countries of the United Nations system, and not by individual countries. If not, it will be quick not only crossing leaders but also conflicting leaders. What can become a major challenge to the role and legitimacy of the United Nations in the future is the strong change that is now taking place in global power relations. The United Nations system is based on post-war and early 1950s conditions of power. In the case of one of the most important tasks of the United Nations, the Peacekeeper, the United Nations is effectively governed by five veto acts. One of the five can block, and they've often done that. We see that in Syria now. Libya stands as an exception. Therefore, reform of the Security Council is important. We can't give up, even if it looks heavy. The party of progress says in their comments that they disagree with this. They set up a strange contrast between legitimacy and representativeness. They note that ‘historically, the legitimacy of the members of the Security Council has proved far more important than the degree to which they have been perceived as representative’. Of course, what countries stand for is important, but representativeness is also part of the basis of legitimacy. I think the most eye-catching, however, is that the party writes in its comments that ‘Norwegian interests have not been acknowledged to be best served by reform of the Security Council’, because the ‘proposed models also have in common an attempt to increase representation to countries with which Norway has little in common, economically, culturally and politically’. This is a recipe for the paralysis of an organization. If everyone's going to sit and watch what's best for themselves, and not what's best for the organization, it's going to be very demanding to change. With regard to the debate on the UN Human Rights Council and about who is going into the so-called good company, I think it's more important to have – let's call them – the worst countries within and about, so that they can be spoken to, and so that we can point a finger at them, than to have them outside. I don't think they even want to read the resolutions, if they're set in motion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e914	First to Innst. 32 S for 2012–2013 on ‘Norway participation in the 66th ordinary UN General Assembly’. An overall committee is behind all the comments. I just want to point out a few things. The Committee considers that participation in the ordinary general meeting is important. This is an arena where very many Heads of State and Government meet, and where bilateral meetings are almost as important as plenary meetings. In addition, the Committee has noted that a resolution condemning the human rights violations committed by Syrian regimes against their own people has been discussed in plenary. We also believe it is regrettable that the Security Council has not been able to gather on stronger measures against Syria, to end the civil war in the country if possible. Otherwise, I refer to the comments in the setting. Then I go over to the rest of my post. The world needs the UN, and the UN needs the world. But does the world need what the UN we see today? It may well be argued that the UN is not very effective, despite the fact that the Secretary-General has repeatedly stressed the importance of having an effective organisation. Reforms have been proposed, but unfortunately they have not been possible. The UN is a huge organization. I guess things take a long time. Nevertheless, results should soon be seen, there should be some confidence in the UN reform. The UN should also be relevant. Personally, I am very uncertain about the trust in parts of the organisation, when countries that repeatedly violate universal human rights – and here I do not agree with the representative Svein Roald Hansen – sit in the Human Rights Council. It is clear that new types of alliances are problematic, which also show muscles in terms of choices in the councils. Nevertheless, it should be absolutely necessary for countries to comply with the UN Convention on Human Rights before they are released and given the opportunity to penalise other countries for violations of the same rights. I have said that before, and I am still of the opinion that when crises occur in the world, the UN must have overall coordination responsibility – this is actually one of my heart issues – for the help provided by civil society. Too many – and thousands of NGOs – flock to and compete for the victims. This should and must be the responsibility of the United Nations for governance. Crisis caravans moving around looking for crises and media are not a desired situation. That is why it is important that we have an overall coordination institution. So a little bit about Norway's role in a future UN. We in the Progress Party do not believe that there is consistency between the large financial contribution made by Norway and the demands made by Norway to the UN organisation. Nor do I agree with the representative Svein Roald Hansen. There should have been much more debated priorities and efficiency requirements today when billions of dollars are sent into the United Nations system. Some would probably say that yes, there are 83 points on achievement, but seriously: little or nothing is said about the cost of those 83 points, and there is no requirement for what happens if the goal is not achieved. 83 points are very many. If Norway had been courageous enough to pick out and prioritize ten of these and followed them up, it would have been much easier to assess the consequences of lack of achievement. I fully agree with the committee leader when she talks about common Nordic and European demands. Of course we have to go in one direction. It's always nice to come to New York to hear how grateful they are that Norway is one of the biggest contributors. It's fine. If it were just so that they said at the same time that Norway's requirements for achieving goals were tough, I would have been a little more confident that the money we mean to spend on good purposes actually goes for good purpose and does not disappear in the large, heavy UN bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e939	For the government, the goal is a UN-led world order, because we believe that all other alternatives are worse. I would like to say that from our point of view it means that investing in social and economic areas is extremely important, because you can't create development without creating peace, and you can't make peace if you don't create development in an area at the same time. We have seen so many examples in history – also in recent history – that areas where there is a lag behind in development are the same areas where the people may at one time rise in reasonable resistance, and at least that gives ground for conflict. The UN is the place we can find common solutions to global challenges such as climate, environment and health; it is an arena to reach an agreement on how the development of the poorer part of the world should be financed and to define the responsibility of each country for its own development. It is a responsibility of each country, but we regard it as our task to contribute to ‘backing’ countries in a positive development effort. The UN is an area in which international standards and standards are agreed that should be used as a basis for the development and follow-up of national policies. Because of the legitimacy of the United Nations, because it has a universal mandate and a better presence in all Member States, the United Nations has a unique task as a tool to assist the Member States in implementing and complying with international standards and standards. It is done through influence work, contributions to policy development, and what is called capacity development in good news: ensuring an administration that works, a functioning state. All these tasks are important for both contributing to state-building and safeguarding the rights of individuals. I believe this must be the main task of the United Nations, doing the job of contributing to development in the world. I would like to stress one thing: the Committee says that only 3 pst. of the money going through the UN system goes to human rights work. That's right if you're talking about the political and individual rights, but I want to say that, fortunately, human rights are much wider than that. It is a much wider mandate, and it is therefore extremely important that the third pillar of the UN's work, which is about development in countries, be present. Accessing food, accessing healthcare and accessing education are also fundamental human rights that should not be deprived of people. That's why we're working for human rights to be based on all the work the UN is doing, and we're doing it in our own development policy as well. I fully agree with what the Minister for Foreign Affairs had in place, namely that reforms in the United Nations system are important. It's important in the development system because there's a lot of money there. It is about organisations not only individually but also together being able to deliver better results. In the four-year plan for the United Nations development activities, which was finalised last December, we have just worked to increase the pressure on the clear expectations that the United Nations will continue its reform for more efficiency. It's about the continuation of the idea that the Foreign Minister was in the middle of it, like, for example. Jens Stoltenberg has contributed to the foundation, namely the idea of a United Nations as a permanent arrangement: to ensure that when the authorities of a country deal with the United Nations, they will not deal with all the various UN organisations, but can deal with a coordinated UN. It is important to ensure effective development policies, and it is important to ensure that UN organisations do not deliver much on the same things, but do each other good instead. Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide was in one of his lines about the importance of what happens if the UN organisations just stagger out and grow bigger and bigger. It's extremely important, and our governance in the UN organisations is about saying to the UN organisations: you need to have a tough, strategic focus on what you're good at, and you better cooperate with other organisations. Together with other countries, we have done a job to ensure more transparency about reports and internal evaluation reports and work for coordination with one UN in several countries. It's a successful system. It started with eight countries to join, now several countries have joined: 32 countries are now part of the ‘One UN’ scheme. The fact that we have done so, and that at the same time we have said that administrative costs should be linked to individual projects and not just to the core contribution we and some other countries have been able to make, has contributed to the reduction in the administrative costs of the UN organisations over the last two years. I believe this is an important example of the fact that working for a more effective UN contributes to a more effective UN and that Norway has a role to play there. We're also doing a job in the field of human rights. As I said, we are at the root of all the work of the United Nations – the Minister for Foreign Affairs was also involved. We have worked to put in place a system as strong and efficient as possible by consistently supporting the independence of special rapporteurs. We often contribute financial support to the special rapporteurs, and one of the things I think works, and I think it is important to have a proper discussion about, are these universal, periodic land hearings, the UPRs, which were introduced in 2007. They are based on the fact that if we all make sure to challenge others, be clear to others, in a way force others, but as countries themselves subject themselves to the critical gaze of other countries, this could lead to a positive development. We think it is important to focus on participation in the UPR. We are going to ensure that we support the kind of follow-up to the commitments made by our cooperating countries through these UPRs, because we believe that it is a tool to improve the human rights situation in countries. Getting it on the table, getting people to respond, is at least a good start. In fact, we believe that this type of mechanism is something we should consider in several areas, and I will come back to it a little later in the article. One of the issues addressed in the Committee's position, which was also addressed by Ms Soreide in her speech, is the question of how to ensure that all countries do not impose completely different quality requirements. I mean, we do. When we take our reviews – we are going to do more systematically – of all, both the UN organisations and the other multilateral organisations in which we are inside and strong contributors, such as the World Bank and others, it is important that we base common criteria on quality. We're going to use the MOPAN criteria, which is the organisation that has just a special responsibility, and we're going to be involved in spitting in both money and competence to get an evaluation of the different organisations. We're using those criteria. At the same time, there is one criterion I think it is important that we do not get under the chair, and that is that different countries have different political priorities. Let's say we have human rights as a political priority. If that's the case that the UN Human Rights Organisation is not working well, we're not improving human rights by cutting the UN Human Rights Organisation and instead spending the money in the World Health Organisation. That is why I say: political priorities for a country will also be an important tool and an important assessment criterion when we look at what we want to achieve. There are some UN organisations, some international organisations, which are the only ones who do a job in an area, and therefore it is often right in those cases to do a job in the board of directors of those organisations instead. If you look at where Norway is represented in the United Nations, it is precisely in many of the organisations that have political priorities that are important to us. I'll end by saying two things. The Committee has been concerned with a fair distribution at one point: it indicates that in the Norwegian social debate there is a high focus on management salaries, and the Committee believes that Norway should take an initiative in discussing the high level of individual executive salaries in the UN. We're taking that with us, because I think this is a good input from the committee. There's one thing I think is important: we see that to recruit people to the UN, wages are one side of the case, but there are other things. I have e.g. Worked hard for people who have children in kindergarten to have access to kindergarten, because this is actually one of the things that makes some people say no. I will end by saying that the discussion about the new Millennium Goals is extremely important. We believe that the new Millennium Goals – just as the Committee says – must be simple, and they must be measurable, but we also need to have a perspective that has been too small in the existing ones, and that is to focus on injustice and structural bias in the world. This has to be included.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e960	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e963	Internal efficiency in all organisations is of course important, and we are pleased that the Council of State has a focus on this. So there's a lot of organizations, even in the areas of state councils. UNDP, the United Nations Development Programme, is one of the largest, with a very broad mandate. Some would believe that their mandate would be transferred to the mandate of other organisations or that other organisations would be subject to their mandate. Is the Council of State satisfied with the United Nations Development Programme as it is? The reason why I address this organisation specifically is that it is so large that it could almost deserve its own debate and a separate announcement in Stortinget. What thoughts have government councils attached to the future of UNDP?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e970	I agree that the UNDP can improve, and that is why we, among other things, in this year's budget cut some – I think it was 70 million. kr – in UNDP and re-prioritised to other UN organisations to send a clear signal that we expect a greater focus from UNDP. This is also about saying to other countries that when we adopt the plan for UNDP – a new strategic plan for how UNDP will work during the autumn – it is extremely important that it is more focused on what is at the heart of UNDP, rather than pushing beyond. But that's democracy, and that means that then other countries come and say, we want UNDP to work on this too, because we have good experience with UNDP, we want them to work on this. But we're saying that you need to have a stronger and clearer focus on the results and be able to report back to us on the results that are being achieved. But that kind of re-priority is going to be systematically in the government budgets ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e975	Through cooperation and alliance building, through governance, through evaluation reports and through money contributions, we are all involved in influencing. This impact is illustrated by examples — sometimes quite good examples — but if we have traditionally been quite poor in Norway, then it is using our money to push through what we want. Let me add that Norway has no obligations towards UN organisations beyond the membership quota. This means that everything we pay in addition happens because we believe that the organisation is the best way to achieve our development goals. How can we see that the government is placing greater emphasis on just spending money to push forward political change that we believe is important and that will help make the UN a more efficient organisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e982	I'd like to rephrase the question from Peter Skovholt Gitmark a little bit, because I think it looks pretty unsympathetic if we come and say, look, here you have this money, now you have to do what we want, otherwise we'll draw all the money. This, I think, is a strategy that doesn't work very well. But I think people see the consequences of a UN organisation not working well – for example. The Roma organisations within the various food organizations in the United Nations: they did not function well enough in our opinion for a long time. Then we reduced our contributions to these organisations and clearly informed them that if they were to expect increases from us again, they had to be better at delivering good results. Similarly, we have now been communicating with UNDP, and with UNICEF, where we have re-prioritized from UNICEF to the Global Partnership for Education, and we have said that we expect better performance reporting in order to re-strengthen the appropriations. So let's say it like this: the message has come out quite clearly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e987	The impact of Norwegian policy on distorting support has been that it has increased by a few tens of millions to a few, and then it has weakened by a few tens of millions to a few others. If you look at what, for example. Australia, Sweden, Denmark and the United Kingdom have made significantly greater fluctuations between those they think work well, and those who deliver poorly. I believe that the symbolic effect here is very great, and one also sees that when one uses the entire list – cooperation, alliance, governance, evaluation reports and money – organisations are much more open to change than if one uses only one of them, and especially if one keeps the money bag outside.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e992	With all due respect, that's what we're doing: we're using governance and our board representation to work to make our organizations better. If we're not satisfied with the job we're doing, we're dissatisfied with the results, we're putting down the funds and moving them to other places. Now we're doing this systematically, and we're going to do this systematically in the years that come. As an example, we clearly say that the policy is crucial if we are to move in: we have clearly informed the World Bank that we are willing to increase investment in their grant loans, the IDA-17 round, provided that there is a stronger focus on distribution to ensure that the growth of the World Bank's projects benefits the poorest, and not just contributes to general growth in the country. Because we've had too many examples of growth not being fairly distributed, and we don't want to see that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e999	The chord change has ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1002	As a small country, the UN is very important to Norway. A global legal order – which is just ahead of power, and where international conventions regulate relations between states – is more important than ever. The UN and international law are real policies, but they are also value policies. We live in an age of increased danger of major act domination. China, Russia and India are increasing their defence budgets and are demanding influence. The United States has gone from being a superpower to becoming a superpower in recent years, reinforced by the financial crisis. Brazil and Indonesia are growing economies. Europe has a global market economy but is weakened in a real political sense. South America has had a very happy development in recent years, both economically and democratically. Africa is still marked by major differences, with many stable countries, but also with a high level of poverty and lack of democracy, and the world is now breathing in the election in Kenya. The claim of the Labour Party is that in such an image, the UN is needed more than ever, especially for a small country such as Norway. It is not just about the rule of law itself, but about the functioning of the United Nations and its institutions. Yes, it is also important for security policy, not least because it binds the major powers in matters, but also because it gives legitimacy in the use of power when needed. And when the Security Council is at its best, they can do it. The Progress Party and the Right have also spoken a lot today about the word ‘legitimite’, but often without defining it. Janne Haaland Matlary – she is now a Right Member – defines it this way: ‘Legitility is probably nothing more than conformity with norms in any society [[...]] Translated into the UN: the UN institutions would, with such a view, be legitimate in promoting western views of democracy and human rights. This is it important to reflect around. My claim is that there are no Western human rights – it is and will be universal rights for citizens around the world. However, there are states and people who violate human rights. An example of increased debate on legitimacy in the UN institutions was the election of new members to the Security Council last year. At that time, 17 rounds of elections were required to distribute five seats in the UN Security Council. The fact is that new fractions, constellations, are still emerging in relation to voting on who will be included in the various committees. This could be a dilemma. While it may have been clearer in the past, there is no longer – and one should perhaps add a lucky – a distinction between developing countries, developed countries, continents, religious groupings or alliances. It's an interesting development, and it's an image of the world changing. It is too early to say what consequences it has for the United Nations, and for what positions the United Nations takes on different issues. It may be a problem if countries that consistently violate human rights have considerable influence, but it can also lead to such countries becoming more responsible if they feel a greater connection to the process. It's not an end in itself to give as much money as possible to the UN. The aim, of course, is to use and support the UN as the instrument it is – an important political arena to safeguard the global world order, while also, of course, safeguarding Norwegian interests. The way the world looks today, it's important to be active in the international arena, and here Norway stands strongly. Few countries of our size are so active in so many political forums around the world. As the world's richest country, and also a country that has proven itself quite well through the financial crisis, we have an additional responsibility to contribute to the UN as well. If we halve support for the UN, as the Progress Party does not say today, but as they actually do in their budgets, and which we also have to expect will be the consequence of any Right Party government for the autumn, Norway will send a signal to the world that it is the strongest right that applies, among other things. at the expense of the poor of the world. It is a policy against which the Labour Party is opposed and which in worst cases can lead to greater instability in the world. You just don't get any UN without funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1024	International political stability and organisation are fundamental to meeting many of the challenges we face. It is with such a hindrance that one can best win the fight against climate change and the fight against poverty. These are the greatest challenges of our time. In the forums and organisations in which Norway participate, we should therefore actively promote a strong international legal order. Norway's policy towards intergovernmental organisations must take into account special interests, while at the same time it must be an objective to build up this policy under other aspects of development policy. Let me make it clear also in this debate that the Right's two main objectives for development policy are: permanent out of poverty and human rights/democracy. Norwegian interests are largely in line with the interests of poor countries. The economic situation of Norway depends on a robust international legal order. The same legal order is important for poor countries to develop. Some claim that the UN's lack of action today is a matter of the will of the major powers to use the organisation and its principles. But the UN's ability to engage the multilateral system is not just a matter of political will to cooperate with the Member States – the role of the United Nations as an actor and arena is the sum of what the Member States agree to make up the United Nations. There is a great need for internal UN reforms to reflect changes in world power conditions, and new, important challenges to increase efficiency. The UN is the main international political arena, and is a central player in international law development, state building, development and humanitarian policy, the protection of human rights and crisis management. The UN's greatest strength is the meeting place, representativity and legitimacy resulting from the fact that the world's countries are almost universally members of the organisation. Legitimacy and representativeness at the same time create efficiency-related challenges, which are visible in the role of the United Nations as both the arena and the actor. The UN also has a central role as a norm maker in international society. We cannot take for granted a predictable international legal order or respect for human rights. Here, Norway must fight for the maintenance and respect of agreements already adopted. At the same time, Norway needs to be clear on further improvements. Unfortunately, fundamental civil and political rights are under pressure in too many countries. Norway has a moral responsibility to promote freedom, social responsibility, democracy, environmental protection and human rights. There is a close link between democracy and respect for human rights. You don't get one without the other. Not only is democracy and respect for human rights important in itself, it also provides the basis for societies where personal initiative can generate growth and progress. Education for all is a prerequisite for real participation and democracy. Let me add that you don't get a democracy without also having a market economy. All countries, including poor countries, have the primary responsibility to enforce political, civil, economic, social and cultural rights for their inhabitants. The right considers that multilateral organisations, but also Norwegian development policies, should play a team with local political authorities where possible and encourage local ownership. In order to achieve democracy and good governance, greater efforts are needed to strengthen women's civil and political participation. Any country that does not grant its women equal rights to men will never become a democracy, nor exploit its full potential. It is regrettable that the composition of the UN Human Rights Council is still not in line with the formal criteria and requirements imposed by the commitments made by the Member States, by continuing to be treated as members by countries which systematically and severely commit abuses against their own citizens. There is no doubt that this weakens the legitimacy and effectiveness of the Council. Finally, let me first say that the representative, Laila Gustavsen, is wrong. For the Right and for a new government, the UN is very important. It is the cornerstone of a foreign policy in which Norway is a small player, and the UN is, as I have also pointed out, a fabulous player in that policy. But we're going to use our power to reform the UN and to help the UN get significantly better than it is today, with higher efficiency. Let me also add that it is important to develop contacts between actors at national level in Norway and the United Nations institutions and organisations, and I would like to refer to the comment on the activities of UNEP/GRID in Arendal as a good example.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1048	Today, we are discussing the UN and the communication that underlies it. There are many areas that are extremely important to Norway, but of course also to the whole world community. I want to get into two areas: the Law of the Sea and the International Labour Organisation (ILO). As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, our geographical location makes the United Nations Maritime Law Commission one of the most important international instruments for Norwegian interests. The Law of the Sea Commission, which came in 1982, is often referred to as the Constitution of the Seas. Here are the rights and obligations attached to the continental shelf and arising from the provisions of the Maritime Law Commission. Norway is the first country to have its continental shelf approved up to the Arctic Ocean by the United Nations and the Continental Soccer Commission. Russia, Canada and Denmark are now on their way. 162 parties are today behind this convention, which is so important. In addition, the United States respects the law of the sea, even though it has not been implemented by them. This means that it is the UN that is normative for this important area also for Norway and that provides standards that are represented by all coastal states in the north. With regard to the establishment of own mechanisms for dispute resolution under the UN, the United Nations Continental Commission contributes to the strengthening of this cooperation. The UN's efforts in this area are invaluable, not least for Norway, which is a small country, in order to ensure stability and a peaceful development based on cooperation in the Arctic. The law of the sea guarantees us the rights and the right to dispose of the great economic resources. We also have a duty and a responsibility to manage resources in a sustainable way. Another major body of the United Nations system is the International Labour Organisation (ILO). Ensuring the rights of workers is – and will be – high on the priority list, and I am pleased that the government has given decent work a central place in our foreign, development and trade policies. The fight against child labour, forced labour and discrimination is important – equality and the right to organise. If we are to contribute to sustainable development, we also need to base fundamental principles and labour rights. We need to see results. I believe that based on the two main points I have mentioned, results can be seen – for the world and for Norway. It is important to be co-players and contributors in this to make the world work in a proper and good way. Climate and poverty must be at the top of the list. This is the great task of the world in the time to come. Everything goes with everything.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1063	Earlier today, we discussed sports and sports policy in Stortinget. Now we're discussing the UN. It provides an opportunity to open this post by mentioning the very sports-interested Grorud boy who became the first Secretary-General of the United Nations, namely Trygve Lie. Trygve Lie was Minister of Justice, Minister of Trade, Minister of Supply and Minister of Foreign Affairs in Norway and the Secretary of State of Akershus. I also think that the position of the Secretary-General of the United Nations should be an appropriate right-wing position for storage representatives from Akershus. Why do I mention Trygve Lie? Well, because he played a formidable role in establishing the United Nations in New York. The compromise candidate Lie, who was elected after many votes, got the job with literally stabbing the new organisation on his feet. Nothing was in place – not offices, nothing. In fact, it was not even determined where the United Nations headquarters should be permanently. Tryglie insisted that it should be in New York, which I think both today's UN ambassador and others are happy about. Much has happened in those 67 years. The world has changed, and so does the United Nations. But to wonder if we need the UN in 2013 shouldn't be a reason. We need the UN – a different UN than in 1946, a better and stronger UN. The world, including Norway, has had good use for the UN, and as many others have mentioned today: Just think of the law of the sea, which guarantees Norway's ownership of our natural resources, what we live on! Imagine if this would be a game! We really shouldn't think about it at all. As I said, the world has changed, among other things. the emergence of regional organisations. The African Union, ASEAN, the Arab League, the EU and NATO – and also important organisations such as the OSCE and the Council of Europe. But the solution is not to bring down the UN, seas if we've got more and eventually strong regional organisations. Rather, the UN must play a role in interacting with these regional organisations. There are enough challenges in the world for all organisations to have something meaningful to do with, it's just a question of how the interaction is, and how the organisations work together. No organization is perfect, neither is the UN. Major organisations need to be regularly restructured – it is our defence, our hospitals or the UN. But as we know, it's not always as simple. That is why we, who believe in the UN and who believe in the role and position of the United Nations, must also take the lead in constantly changing and improving the UN. We live in a troubled world. We need more international cooperation and therefore also stronger international organisations, not weaker. Finally, Morten Höglund made a good contribution today. If I heard correctly, Morten Höglund said that the UN should perhaps have a role in the conflict in Cyprus. I must admit that I think is an interesting thought. Maybe Morten Höglund's in on something. It's a little interesting that it comes from the Progress Party, which usually wants to cut the UN's wings, but I think the reasoning is interesting. We could perhaps add other difficult and stuck conflicts not as far from Norway, for example. in Transnistria and Nagorno-Karabakh, considering whether the UN should also have had a stronger role there than the UN has traditionally had. It's not easy. Those who have so far tried to find peace solutions in these three conflicts have, as you know, failed – at least not well enough – but it would have been interesting to see if the UN could succeed in something that other organisations have so far failed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1082	This President believes that the position of the Secretary-General of the United Nations should be assigned to a magnificent representative from Groruddalen, because Trygve Lie was from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1085	There's a need for a country heading towards the current. Norway is a small country, and we are dependent on others. At the same time, we have the opportunity to take leadership in important areas internationally, including: because we are not bound to the EU through membership there. The UN is an important international arena for cooperation, an arena in which we can jointly solve major international challenges with climate, environment, health and equality. Here we have the opportunity to fight for the rights of poor countries and for a fairer global distribution, and here we have the opportunity to be a leading voice for equality. That is why I would like to thank the Minister for his contributions to this debate. SV wants Norway to pursue an autonomous international policy of solidarity, cooperation, human rights and peace. Norway's foreign policy shall be independent of major interests, and our security shall be based on international law and on the cooperation of the United Nations. Just because we're independent, we can be like the crutch to the current, we can bring up themes on an international arena that's important too much more than ourselves, like women's sexual and reproductive rights. This week, the Minister for Equal Opportunities has spoken against Roma. She has made clear demands on land that will weaken women's rights. Norway is a vote against the conservative forces, such as the Vatican State, Iran or conservative Catholic countries. The struggle for self-determination is central to women’s reproductive health. Unsafe abortions and non-prevention are a major health hazard for women, especially in poor countries. Since we're not forced to negotiate our positions with conservative countries like this. Poland or Ireland, Norway can be a much clearer voice for women’s rights than our neighbouring countries, which are hindered by being a member of the EU. At least 47,000 women die every year because they do not have access to safe abortions. 99 pst. of these women living in a developing country. Half of today's abortions are unsafe. Government SV therefore prioritises the provision of prevention assistance and wants Norway to contribute a billion in the future towards 2020, not least we will continue to work for more safe abortions and for reproductive health. But I ask myself whether Norway will be as clear a voice for equality internationally without a red-green government that then clearly points out women's reproductive health and women's rights, and I ask myself about a possible new government with the Christian People's Party, which they say wants the Minister of Development, will give priority to women's health and access to safe abortions. Will the Christian People’s Party guarantee that enough money and enough power are still being spent on safe abortions? The women of the world need someone who dares speak Rome in the middle of it. It will and can, the SV and the red-green government, for women's rights and the right to determine their own body and health are human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1104	I think the president's call to find the next UN Secretary-General from Groruddalen came a little quickly. [[Laughter]] In particular, bearing in mind that the election is snuffed in to stand between current representatives Akhtar Chaudhry and Jan Bøhler, I think at least we need a little bit of consideration to be able to handle it on a tight arm. But we're probably all responding to this call. My contribution today to the tame of the debate was to say that a good message has also resulted in a good debate. It is very rare that Stortinget is in a situation where we discuss the Ministry of Foreign Affairs budget in such a way as we do today. There is no doubt that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is the Minister with the highest status, but compared to the Minister for Development and Assistance, his budget is just to be reckoned with. Of course, the status weighs up in relation to the 30 billion. NOK 36 billion. kr that goes for these purposes. Then you have to figure out that there can be some dividing lines in these debates. It is not as some from the position claim, that in the event of a change of government – I hope there are many who listen to the opposition parties today, not least in the diplomat lodge – some shades of change can emerge as such, but it is not possible that there will be a Norwegian aid policy and development policy that opens the way for the strongest, and that it is the poorest in the world who will be allowed to pay this invoice. It does not help to strengthen the debate in particular, but rhetoric is equally effective for each time it is launched. I also think it is important that Norway – and in this area we are a major force – set some Norwegian footprints. In the fields of aid, development, debt recovery, climate policy, etc. we need to be in a situation in order to achieve our goals – which are clearly set out in the Communication, and which is government policy – where we are also able to ask critical questions within the system. Of course, as many previous speakers have pointed out, it is easy to point out areas where the UN as an institution does not succeed as we wish. Therefore, it must be a common goal that if the UN – as Svein Roald Hansen puts it today – is not the world’s most important political institution, then it must be a common goal to return to it to become it. But more players are needed as contributors — much greater powers than Norway. Russia and China can be a few examples. Now, if the Groruddalen gets stronger in the system, this could be even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1117	Politicians from the Groruddalen have raised the world further before, and they will do so later, too, I will count on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1120	I will at least reserve myself against the idea of giving the Groruddalen veto rights in the Security Council. [[Laughter]] I would like to thank you first again for a very good debate, which we take with us. There have been a lot of right and good points. It is good to bring with us when we are going out to conduct an even clearer and stronger UN policy and in the alliance building that is necessary in a heavily changed world. I want to remember when the United Nations came into existence during World War II. The conferences leading to the final San Francisco Conference were paralleled by attempts to win World War II. The United Nations concept was first used as one of the names of what we knew as the Allies, and that eventually slipped over into being the name of the new organization. Fortunately, even after a few years the old axe powers, which were then reformed, became part of the organisation. Then there was one key point for the UN, a clear and distinctly overarching key point that trumped all other goals, and that was to prevent war between states. That's what the United Nations was made for. Then there came an important development agenda, and then there came an important human rights agenda, but that's why you put the UN together. If it is the scale, then the UN has been a thundering success, for there is virtually no war between states in the world in modern times. Many of the warriors who are have actually been mandated by the United Nations, and are then in a slightly different category. On the other hand, the conflicts have moved from the intergovernmental to the intergovernmental space, and very many of the conflicts with which the United Nations struggled, both after World War II and after the end of the Cold War, were just intergovernmental conflicts. There, progress has been better. The Cyprus operation dates back to 1964 – it's the same year I was born. There is no age for a human being, but there is a rather old age for a peacekeeping operation. But it's happened a lot since then, considering what you've been doing in Sierra Leone, Liberia, Mozambique and a number of other places where you've been in a transformation. That's what you're going to learn from and get better at. Then I want to say a word about Security Council reform. We'll get back to that in the debate, but the point is to take a key chord: short time. You're looking for an African member. Should it be an individual country, or should you imagine that it is the African Union, directly or indirectly. That's the kind of thinking we need. My final point is that to be a good player in the United Nations system to help push the UN forward, we have to be consistent at home. Countries need to have a comprehensive, thoughtful and strategic UN policy, and our policies must be linked. A very important point for both the Minister of Development and me is to ensure that Norway has consistent, recognizable views in all the bodies we meet, and not least on basic standards and respect for human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1135	I would like to thank you for what I think has been an unusually good and constructive debate on an important topic. It is quite obvious that the United Nations is experiencing important experiences in Norway. But there have also been some clear expectations and clear marches on which direction Norway is going to use its great influence, because we are a stable and great giver who also wants to provide political influence. However, I would like to point out some issues that have been raised. The representative Gustavsen was concerned with this with legitimacy. The Committee has jointly tried to define this in its comments, including: talks about the fact that the UN is a meeting place in which almost all states ‘universally members’ give a legitimacy in itself. What I – and, to some extent, others have wanted to emphasise in the debate is that in terms of the role of the United Nations as a norm for international law and for maritime law, it is a major challenge for Norway and for the United Nations to challenge legitimacy. It's not quite as dangerous in terms of the UN as an operational actor, because there will at any time be other actors who can do the same kind of work, maybe better sometimes. Therefore, it is not the big problem, but for a country like Norway it is vital that the role of the UN as a norm is not challenged on legitimacy. We're totally dependent on that, and that's why it's important to distinguish between the two. Then the representative Gustavsen in his speech is also concerned that the Progress Party would halve support for the UN, and that it would result with the Right and the Advance Party in government. That's what I think is an unusually unpresidious and very bland point. Firstly, the Advance Party has not proposed to halve the aid; they have proposed to cut it about. 1 billion. SEK of 4,5 billion. kr in its budget. The right has proposed cutting $45 million. SEK of the 4,5 billion. kr. So it's less than the government parties themselves cut to the UNDP, so a little bit of precision in the debate I think we can all cost ourselves, because it's been a very good debate so far. Finally, I would also like to say that I very much agree with what the Minister for Development says about the relationship between the fundamental human rights and, of course, also having food on the table, access to school, etc. But at the same time, I would warn that many rulers think they can use that very argument as an opportunity to buy free from universal human rights. Saying that you can feed on the table at the same time means that it's not that dangerous with freedom of speech and faith, and it's a scary way of thinking. You can see how rulers try at regular intervals to swap universal human rights against more physical rights such as food and education. Human rights and other benefits shall not be set against each other. They are on the contrary dependent on each other, and – not least – human rights are universal. They apply everywhere. They apply to all people, and they apply at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1146	Since we're in the field of precision, I want to stress that human rights are universal and that you can't pick out any human rights and say that they are much more important than others. The whole point of human rights is that there's a whole package where all things are equally important. It's a vision I share. In the big message we are going to present, we are just going to say that we want to strengthen our cooperation with countries – and give priority to aid to countries – where we can get a stronger focus on human rights and democratic development along with the other human rights. Our problem is that in some context we get into a dilemma that we have to recognise. It is obvious, and at the latest yesterday I was asked that question by a journalist: what right do we have to say that poor people ashore with dictatorships have less right to help money from us than poor people living in countries that are not dictatorships? I think that's a good question. It just underlines the dilemma that is there. But I still believe that over time it is best to cooperate with countries that have positive democratic developments. I just wanted to say that and stress that human rights are universal, and that concerns all human rights and is not a menu. I want to invite you to a discussion, and then I have a comment for the Progress Party. That is why it is good that the representative, Mr Høglund, should come later. The representative Karin Woldseth was up and said that here's 83 measures that we set up, and that we can't measure according to those measures. What we fully agree with, but we must have humility when we work with the UN. The UN is an organisation working on all issues – the whole range of issues – in line with Norwegian policy, for that matter. I should like to see the Progress Party sit down and say that there are only five things that are important, or ten things that it is important to have goals for here in the country. No, that's not how it works. That's why it's going to be a width of objectives. But what we are clear about is that when we assess efficiency, and when we evaluate support for UN organisations, we have a set of criteria – seven criteria – we set. The seven criteria I perceive that the committee has joined and said that it is good that we have and work to get a broad consensus on. So, as I say, it will be a balance of political priorities. Just as political priorities differ from one party to another in Norway, there will be different political priorities for issues to be addressed, from one country to another. Therefore, not everyone’s priority will be exactly the same in terms of support to organisations. I will end by inviting the Committee to invite me back to a debate on the United Nations Development Goals, because when the new Millennium Goals come into place, Norway has a role to play. We are in the group working on the new sustainable development objectives – sustainability objectives. I would like to look forward to an opportunity to discuss this with the Committee at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1155	First to Councillor Eidsvoll Holmås: Yes, we acknowledge that we want to achieve something in many fields – with a large width. What we're asking for is a priority, a tip of the targets. When we go into an election campaign, which I'm sure SV will also do when they go into an election campaign, we give priority to some things that we want to focus on, and that we might want to do first. So that doesn't mean we don't want to do things in all walks of life. What we're asking is, what's most important now? The representative Swearer Myrli may give me some undeserved commendation for my comment on Cyprus. The idea was that there's been a peacekeeping operation here for so long that it's almost forgotten. There has been no progress on the ground in the conflict. I would like the United Nations to play a role if the United Nations has a role to play. But maybe there are other actors who should know their visitation time. With regard to other nearby conflicts, I fully agree with the representative of Myrli that it is doubtful that such conflicts remain, but I am not sure that the UN can contribute. OSSE and others may be more nearby. Unfortunately, there is not much progress. So to the representative Svein Roald Hansen who makes a point of some of our remarks. We make demands, which are not synchronised with other countries, and you can't deal with so many demands. I hope I give the representative Hansen some justice when I repeat it like this. When we say that we in Norway need to discuss requirements we should set to the UN – priorities we should set to the UN, what we want to achieve in the different organisations – it is not that it should be synchronised with other countries that also give money into the United Nations system. Yes, absolutely. That's the operational part. We expect the government to do that. We respect, of course, that if we come alone and put a menu on the UN table, we don't necessarily move on. This has to be seen in a whole. The representative Hansen was also inside that it is better to keep the worst country within than outside. Here the representative says something and writes something else. Is he willing to take credit for – or does it seem good – Libya being excluded by the Human Rights Council, that some other countries with gross violations of human rights have withdrawn from the Human Rights Council as candidates? I mentioned as an example that the red-green government was actively working to prevent Iran from entering the board of the UN Women's Organisation. Now you have to decide. Is it good to keep them inside or not? We can agree that this needs to be seen on a case-by-case basis, and that it is not right to keep everyone in all relevant organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1166	I understand that I have trotted the opposition on a sore toe, and that you need to characterize both my relationship with numbers and my relationship with using so-called political rhetoric. As far as the last point is concerned, I thought that Storting’s pulpit was also in favour of political debate and to make political disagreements visible – perhaps especially when we have an opposition that is very often close to the government in argumentation, but in practice it shows that it stands for something else. Then I felt a need to point out what the Progress Party has done in its alternative budget, and I might also use the opportunity to ask what would be a clear, possibly right-wing party policy in this area. The representative Eriksen Soreide is right that when I say 50 pst, there are the total cuts the Progress Party is doing in the budget. That's an important clarification. She is also right that the Advance Party cuts about 1 billion. kr to the UN organisations. It's at the base of 25 pst. of the United Nations budget. It's okay to clarify. What will become a possible consequence of the Right Party and the Advance Party in the Government, says the representative Eriksen Soreide nothing about, and then we have to assume that the Advance Party will be able to influence such a type of case. It's just to sum up that there's still to be seen, and we're waiting in suspense. I think that if, for example, had been the defense's budget opposition had cut in by about 25 p.m., they had experienced ramaskism, but because sometimes you have a rhetoric against the UN that is not effective – and sometimes the UN is it – they say it's just putting on with increased efficiency, then there's no problem in the budget. Then you have a real-world approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1178	The representative, Mari Lund Arnem, used much of his intervention to agitate so that the right to abortion for all the women of the world should be a central area of concern to raise in the UN. She went on to refer to countries she considers to be particularly backward in this way, and ended by warning against the Christian People's Party in government – Norway is going to fight for abortion as a central health asset in the United Nations. Last autumn, it was documented that late-boards had failed in Norwegian hospitals, where abortions had shown signs of life for up to three hours after the procedure. I believe that such a practice will cause both wonder and disgust in countries that we normally regard as far less developed than Norway. Which countries appear to be backward-looking may vary, depending on their place of stand. The Christian People's Party will fight for health benefits for the poor of the world, and we will stand together with other political parties to wage that fight in the UN. However, I ask for an understanding that we will then give priority to treatment that saves lives, such as life. vaccination programme and assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1187	I didn't really intend to take the word again, but I just couldn't stop when the representative Gustavsen challenged us to those degrees. It's okay to be out and cycling, but trying to push the blame for ‘buggering’ on the Right and Advance Party, I think it's a little out of place. When it comes to demanding that the Right Party and the Advance Party have a clear relation to how the aid policy and how the UN policy is going to be in 2013/2014, if we come into government, I think that the representative Gustavsen may have to lubricate with patience. I hope, of course, that the Progress Party will have some influence, but it will have to wait until the election is over and we see how the force relationship is between these two parties. The representative Gustavsen should know that very well, she is in a government with two slightly smaller parties than her own. It's actually not that long ago – it's been quite a few years since – I heard the head of SV said that SV wanted Norway to leave NATO. SV is still in government, we're still in NATO, so if you have an idealistic point of view, you might actually have to adapt to reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1194	The debate was probably about to end, so I'm not going to introduce any new topic. I just want to say a little bit in the light of what we heard from Steinar Reiten, that what we've achieved in Norway in terms of abortion law and reproductive health -- women's rights to control their own bodies -- is a very important part of the capital that we take with us into the world, and we work for the same things internationally. If I were to interpret that post as an indication that we would go in the opposite direction, I would just like to stress that it is not only my party and the other parties in this government that are against it, but that it would also be quite serious in relation to the authority Norway can use internationally. Then we would be facing a negative international trend, where we see several countries going in the wrong direction. If the point was that we're going to make it easier to save lives, it's an important way to do it by improving women's assembly, child's health and providing safe births. That's a pretty important part of the job we're doing, but it's also the right to decide about your own body. I hope this is not a signal that Norway is now going in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1199	The best way to make Norway go in the right direction is to understand that everyone in this room is to vote for a new round of red-green government after the election. I would like to stress that one of the things that I feel very strongly is that the same fights that my mother was fighting for in the women's movement in Norway in the 1970s, which was about the right to abortion, are exactly the same games that are currently being fought by a lot of women all over the world. In my opinion, it's about a fundamental opportunity for women to decide how many children you're going to have, and when you're going to have a child. We know from all experience that facilitating good family planning is something that makes the chance that children born survive is very good. Because we see that when kids are born very closely after each other, it is often the child that is the number. 2 after the birth of the first person, who is experiencing nutritional problems and who is at risk of loss of nutrition. Getting too little food and experiencing hunger can lead to brain damage for young children. It can lead to brain damage that means you never have the opportunity to learn the same thing as other children at any time in life. This is something that is countered internationally, and therefore it was good that we in London last year, together with David Cameron and several others, stood up and said that women's right to control their own bodies is something we have to make sure, because those who are against this are so strongly organized. They're doing lobbying courses, they're drivin' representatives in the United Nations, they're doing a huge job of going back from the important games that were won at the Beijing Conference, in Cairo, and elsewhere, where women's rights were explicitly established. I mean, if you're going to be busy saving lives, saving the lives of the women who choose unsafe abortions because they don't have access to safe abortions, actually the only humane thing to facilitate. That is why we in the government will continue to work hard to ensure that women's rights and equality are at the top of the political agenda. The role of Norway has been recognised internationally. Norwegian NGOs – non-governmental organisations – are getting a lot of feedback that we are tough in the negotiations that are about this. They get feedback about participating and doing the whole job with us to ensure that what we have achieved for equality in Norway, women elsewhere in the world will also get. That is why I would strongly warn against a change of policy today. I can't interpret the representative in any other way than that's what's wanted from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1214	I am not quite aware of how much this should be done as a domestic political debate, and I am talking about adjectives and the strong use of words by the members of the government. I'm a little surprised at that. I think it's important to see two relationships here – that you can also have a different view of the abortion issue, while, of course, you also work for a good mood. If you're going to set it up as a contrast, I think Norway has a lot of work to do with getting any consensus to help put assembly on the agenda in many countries. But I would like to know, and get to know, whether it is the government, when it works within the United Nations system under the umbrella ‘reproductive health’, telling other countries that for Norway it means the right to self-determined abortion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1223	Working for sexual and reproductive health — and rights — includes a range of things that we are concerned about. It's very different what different countries put in it. Access to family planning is controversial. Access to safe assembly during pregnancy and arrangements for it is not controversial. Access to safe abortions instead of unsafe abortions is definitely controversial. Access to sexual education is definitely controversial. This whole spectrum is important to Norway, and we are committed to moving that debate internationally and to participating in the fundamental rights of women. Homofile’s rights are also part of what is involved in sexual health — and rights — for very many people experience clear discrimination. This is a range of disciplines that we raise as one of our important priorities in the gender equality struggle. I would therefore like to say that it is not, in fact, a domestic policy issue; it is a foreign policy issue, because it is about Norway's credibility as one of the strongest tablers of women's right to decide over their own bodies – a right that I share to discuss when I am out as a Minister for Development, a right that I know the Minister for Gender Equality is taking up when she is at a women's conference, a right that the Foreign Minister brings up in dialogue with others we meet. So this is one of the areas where Norway has a special role, a special responsibility, and where it is quite clear that it will be a conversion if the Christian People's Party enters the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1232	I hear what the council says, but he does not answer the question. Do we need to understand that now that Norway is talking about reproductive health and is going to convince other countries about the importance of good assembly, does this mean that Norway wants to oblige other countries to make sure that they have so-called self-determined abortion? We actually have to be clear about that, because if it's Norway's position, I'm absolutely sure it's going to, in sum, weaken the possibilities of a better assembly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1239	I believe I answered that question very clearly. I said very clearly that for us, sexual and reproductive health – and rights – is about a whole range of rights. But the concept must be filled with content based on the ambitions of each country as to what it is possible to achieve. We cannot impose anything on other countries, but we can work to influence other countries to participate in this agenda. This is one of the reasons why I think it's extremely important. When I spoke at the Rio Conference last year, I said that I thought it was bad that sexual and reproductive health – and rights – had been removed, because we believe it is worth fighting for all the rights in this regard. I also did not understand that the representative Hans Olav Syversen was very clear in his reply to me. I understand that in this area, the Christian People's Party will turn away to say, we want less focus on family planning than what you have, we want less focus on access to safe abortions. If that's the way it is, I think it's actually something that people here in Norway need to find out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1248	I would like to stress, as the Minister for Development also now said, that of course it is not that we impose Norwegian abortion legislation on other countries. We have no instruments for that either. Neither do we want to cooperate with just those countries that solve these questions just like we do. But what we have done, and we want to continue to do – which I hope Norway will always be at the forefront of – is to take this development further in the right direction. What we both have now pointed out is that if Norway, of all countries, now tightened up on abortion legislation, it may, in addition to all the domestic policy responses it would lead to, have a significant foreign policy downside, because it will send signals that we too are now on the bile that draws a number of acquired rights in the wrong direction. We're going to cooperate widely. We have tolerance for more vision. We're also going to continue working with people at home about what we agree on, even though we disagree on other things. But a trend in the opposite direction will definitely be noticed, and not in a positive way. For my part, I do not intend to say more in this debate. I just want to end by saying that what this also illustrates in a good way is that the UN is also an arena for normative questions. The normative issues can sometimes reflect the normative debates we have at home, in each country. It's good we have an international arena, because we're talking here about issues that not only concern the inhabitants of a single country, but humanity as a community. Then we have to talk about it in Stortinget, we have to talk about it in the UN General Assembly, and we have to talk about what it belongs to. Then I want to use the opportunity to thank Morten Höglund for very good cooperation, since this, as I understand, is Höglund's last debate in the Storting in the period and thereby on the Stortinget. It's been a very good collaboration, and I appreciate what we've done, and probably will also do in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1261	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has asked for the floor, but as I understand it, the representative Syversen under the regulations does not have the opportunity to have further comments. Several have not asked for the word. Debates of the European Parliament So 2 and 3 are done.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1269	The size should vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1277	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1–5, by Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party the proposals No. 6-8, by Øyvind Korsberg, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 9, by Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 10–16, from Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10-14 and proposal No. 16, from the Progress Party Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to investigate the possibility of a sporting lift according to the model of the Cultural Lift.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals for financial resources equivalent to the State guarantee for the Youth Olympics for investment in children’s and young people’s rights throughout the country.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that new measures and priorities for sport referred to in the notification, which are not otherwise apparent, are financed in the framework of the games.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to take the necessary measures to eliminate the delay in funding for the construction of sports facilities.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: «The government is asked to carry out an evaluation of current grant schemes for activity and installations.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government requests the Government to make the necessary proposals to introduce from the autumn of 2013 one hour of physical activity each day for primary school pupils, with a corresponding increase in the frame-hour period.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1334	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to extend the current system of cabins in the lowlands to provide support for the overnight part of these cabins.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1351	There is a vote on proposal No. 9, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to maintain the current system of community facilities, including the measure item for simplified community facilities.’ The right and left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1367	There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to consider carrying out pilot projects that increase awareness of how youth self-organised sport can best be developed within organised sport.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1381	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6 and 7, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to review the game scheme to assess whether preparation machines should also be included in the game scheme.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ascertain whether the current grant and allocation schemes adequately respect the characteristics of the self-organised sports.’ The left has announced their support for the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1404	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to assess, together with sport, the need for coordination of national and regional plans for sports facilities.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to examine concrete measures to improve the organisation of the participation of disabled persons, including removing the 26-year limit on grants for equipment, strengthening access to personal assistants and leisure transport.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to facilitate increased swimming activity by considering the inclusion of outdoor bathing areas in the Toy Scheme.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to investigate how studies and study funding can be better organised for top athletes.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the sport itself can be integrated into the university’s and university’s sporting offerings.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-07.ana.ud1208e1496	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
