ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e117	The representative Karin S. Woldseth, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. From the Christian People's Party Group there is an application for the extension of the granted leave of the representative Line Henriette Hemdal until 6 June. The application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The Vara representative, John Thune, is proposed to continue to meet during the leave period. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of Morten Höglund shall apply for parental leave from 6 June to 21 June. This application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative of the goods, Tom Staahle, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Tom Staahle is present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will state that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e164	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour 30 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 35 minutes, the Progress Party 20 minutes, the Right 15 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e171	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Foreign Minister for the statement he made two days ago. There is a tendency among many people to talk about our involvement in Afghanistan in the past – as if it were something that was, and not something that is. But it's most of all present time. Both our civil and our military engagement is happening now and is going to last for years to come. If I were to mention something I would like to have had more of in the Foreign Minister's statement, it was just to get the discussions on the strategy for the Norwegian contribution to the future – both civil and military – even more emancipated. We have just signed an agreement between Norway and Afghanistan that provides a long-term perspective on development cooperation over the next five years. It's also likely that we're going to be present in some form also with a military contribution. I would also like to take this opportunity to give them great recognition – both military and civilian – which every day make a great effort in Afghanistan. We have many of our organizations that have been present in the country for 30 years. They know the country well. They do a lot of work, but they often work under difficult conditions. It is also the case that the soldiers who have been, are and will be in Afghanistan, also make a great effort. It's the ones that give the best of it for the rest of us to be safe. They've made great sacrifices. Many of them come back with brilliant experiences and take on new assignments. Some of them experience injuries to the soul and body, and some – 10 people – have had to give the ultimate sacrifice, namely their own life. We will also give recognition to the families who are at home waiting for their loved ones to come home again. We're still going to be in dangerous operations and in demanding assignments. We shall never forget the background to Norway's presence in Afghanistan. It was a haven of terrorism that the international community, with the UN mandate and after the invitation from the Afghan authorities, had to try to do something about. In that context, you could say that what we've done now has been a conditional success. There are still major challenges, but there's also a lot going well, and I'm going to get back to it. There are many major, profound and profound problems in Afghanistan. Many of them are factors in Afghan society and Afghan politics that show long historical lines back. And there's just a lot of the conflicts that we're now seeing going on more than before. It shall be Presidential elections on 5 April 2014. There is widespread rivalry and positioning, and not least affects all this security situation, both in Faryab and in the rest of the country. At the same time, the international presence is smaller, and it is going to be smaller, so the transition must be completed at the same time as a new political phase in Afghanistan. As many have also experienced in the past, it is not a military end to this war, but a political one. The regional perspective is full for Afghanistan, as it does for all other countries. Afghanistan is dependent on its neighbours, and it defines a lot of the relationship around it. It is important to understand, to predict and to contribute to a constructive solution. Afghanistan is also part of a perhaps particularly tense neighbourhood. We had a debate here in the Chamber two weeks ago about Kashmir, where we addressed some of the issues that are being addressed. Many countries use Afghanistan and unrest in Afghanistan as an area for their own policies. However, there is no doubt that the opportunities for real reconciliation in Afghanistan will increase if the countries of the region assume their responsibilities. It is hardly anything that can be done from other countries, but it must be in connection with neighbouring countries where Afghans take responsibility for their own processes. So I want to move on to some of the challenges in Afghanistan. The Foreign and Defence Committee has been on two trips to the country. There have been two very interesting trips where we have seen the whole spectrum of both Norwegian and international efforts, and we have talked to a lot of Afghan politicians and others who are in many ways responsible for the development of Afghanistan further. The difference between the two trips was quite clear. On the second trip, which we made in April 2012, we clearly noticed that the seriousness had gone up for Afghan authorities. It was quite clear that they had a clear feeling that it is now happening, that is now the transition starts, and that is now the responsibility is going to be put on them. Many people have pointed out that in Afghanistan it is not useful to see provinces isolated. You have to see the whole thing to understand and the whole thing to be able to make good solutions. There's no reason not to be realistic. There may be many and major challenges, especially in terms of the security situation and human rights — especially for women. But there is no reason to paint black either. We must be careful not to expect any further, negative development creates a self-fulfilling prophecy. If everyone's talking about things going in the wrong direction, it's easy that you get the sense of the situation, and that you don't see the factors that go in the right direction. I mentioned the question of the situation of women. Many people have a great deal of concern about – although they have achieved some equal rights in the law – that it is not implemented in the real world. There are also many who are concerned that women’s rights can once again become a negotiating card in talks with the Taliban and other groups. And there are many who believe that even though you now have more children in school – that is now about. Eight million children in school compared with around 900,000 in 2001 — many of them girls — are not enough to ensure stable and long-term development. There's more to it than that. Some words also about things that are good and positive. Afghan security forces are able to handle increasingly complex operations. It is also because ISAF has placed great emphasis on training, training and mentoring — being in the field of Afghans — thus contributing to training. There is considerable progress in many areas, especially in health. Mother and child mortality has seen great and positive developments in the right direction. In education, eight million children go to school, compared with 900,000 in 2001. It's big economic growth. Infrastructure development will contribute to the long-term creation of a better society. A small curiosity, but still interesting: there are now 16 million mobile phones in Afghanistan, compared to about 10,000 in 2001. The reason why I mention the two factors, especially education, infrastructure and mobile phones, is the following: Several Afghans say that one of the most important bullies against the fact that the Taliban is going to have a proper footing again is that parents of children who are now going to school will never accept that they are no longer going to school. Those who now use modern infrastructure in all fields will never again accept the return to a situation where you don't have the kind of infrastructure, where you don't have the freedom of the press, where you don't have freedom of expression. There is a lot to say about the PRT model, there are many learning points and not least the need for more uniform implementation regardless of where in the country you are. There are some of the points that will be guaranteed to be a discussion in the evaluations. The Minister of Foreign Affairs chose to highlight the Norwegian model, which – I was saying – was the only one that had been quite successful. But there are many models that have worked in whole or in part, and I see many of the points the Foreign Minister mentioned as reasons why things had not gone so well, is something that is worth taking along because Norway is probably going to be out in that type of operations again in some form, and maybe this is a concept that you look at more closely. There has been a political debate on the Norwegian model. No one has thought that interaction is a good idea, but close coordination and cooperation between Norwegian actors and the overall Norwegian effort has been an important point. This is also part of the evaluation; it is important to focus on it. In conclusion, I would like to say that we who are in this Chamber today, and we who are taking part in this debate, have a special responsibility to contribute to the fact that the arguments that some people may see as a very negative black paint of both the situation in Afghanistan and the Norwegian civil and military efforts do not get foothold, but are actually supplemented by what is the real situation on the ground. It's challenging and demanding, but it's in recovery.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e203	I would also like to thank the Foreign Minister for a thorough presentation with a realistic but underlying optimistic message. I also share a large part of the analysis that the committee's chairman now gave of the perspectives. It's very positive to draw out, but there's also a lot to worry about. But I think it is right – as the committee leader said – that we should not stare so blindly at the concerns that they become self-fulfilling. Our military efforts in Afghanistan are coming to an end. Our soldiers have done a brilliant job. The price has been high, ten have lost their lives, and many will have to live with physical and mental damage. But it is important to stress that our task in Afghanistan, our contribution to better development in Afghanistan, is not over. We also continue to make important military contributions. The main task has been solved. Afghanistan is no longer an arena for international terrorism. I don't think the country will be again. The experience was too expensive to buy. The military part of ISAF's task is soon to be over. Responsibilities are transferred to Afghan security forces that are built up and trained. Warriors have had enough of this country. A national structure has now been built on the security forces. I believe that the main challenges facing Afghans are not on the security side, although they should not be underestimated. The main challenge lies on the political side. The country has been given a democratically elected parliament and president. There'll be a new presidential election next year. Will one be able to create a political process that is inclusive, which includes all groups in this divided society, including the Taliban? Will there be a political basis for fulfilling the obligations of today's President on behalf of Afghanistan in the Tokyo Conference, the commitments of the development agreement with Norway and certainly with other countries, reforms in financial management, the fight against corruption, including in the judiciary, the establishment of democratic governance, respect for fundamental human rights and respect for women's position? That's the biggest challenge. There are challenges to overcome centuries of cultural roots and religious traditions. There are optimistic voices. When the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence visited Afghanistan last year, it met, among others. Sima Simar of the Human Rights Commission. She thought Afghan women would not be pushed back to the situation during the Taliban, and she was equally optimistic during her recent Oslo visit. We must recognise the development and modernisation that has taken place in Afghanistan, she replied. There is a lot about the situation in Afghanistan that nourishes pessimism, not least the Taliban’s attempt to test the security forces when the ISAF forces leave. But there's also a lot of positive happening, especially in the big cities. The Foreign Minister pointed to Meymaneh, who has become a dynamic economic center in Faryab. Afghanistan has a young population. 60 pst. Of the 35 million are under 20 years of age – a generation that wants out of misery and dreams of a different society and a different future. These ten-to-twelve years have not only been a source of conflict and burden to the Afghan population. They have also represented a break in the isolation of the Taliban – a view to the outside world, to new impulses and to a different and better society. We must hope and believe that there are cimers of the political power needed to master the political task of building a better society with respect for human rights and consolidating democratic development. It is, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out in his statement, a positive move. Economic growth is high. Only in the Faryab province, half a million people have access to clean water and health businesses through our efforts, agricultural production has increased, farmers' incomes as well, and artificial irrigation allows for two growing seasons. Over 100 schools are built with Norwegian money, illiteracy is combated. Should the political project succeed, need inclusion and reconciliation. First of all, however, national structures need to be built, as our assistance is directed towards. The international donor society must support institutions, not individuals. We must help to strengthen regional cooperation and economic and social development that embraces broad groups, not least women. The work in Afghanistan is far from complete, either for the international community as such or for Norway. One important stage is soon completed, the next becomes equally demanding, but it is a stage in which the Afghans themselves must sit in the driver's seat. Only those who can take responsibility for their own development, for their own economic development, to ensure that all groups and both sexes are mobilised in the construction of a new Afghanistan that offers the Afghans a better future than the past. Let me point to an important lesson that we have to draw from the years we have been in Afghanistan, not just as regards Norway's efforts, but the whole of the international community's efforts: for too long, unilateral emphasis was placed on the military part of the operation in Afghanistan and too little on the political part, both within the country and regionally. The American approach, pointed to in President Bush’s concept of the axis of evil, was far too long in the way of a political approach that included all groupings. The theory that those who are not with us are against us, are involved in building walls and making it difficult to achieve cooperation and reconciliation. Today, everyone recognises that there is no realistic political solution that can provide the basis for a more stable Afghanistan without including and involving the Taliban. It is a necessary recognition, it is good that it has come, and we hope that it will help to achieve what needs to be achieved, namely cooperation, inclusion and reconciliation in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e237	Let me join my predecessors and thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a full and broad presentation. The challenge of such an explanation is well to match the complexity that Afghanistan offers, from this room and from Norway as such. I think that is simply because Afghanistan is more complex than many of us are able to imagine. How to sit here and make good senses and solutions, you can have thoughts about, but I think at the same time you have to have deep respect for the Afghans and their own choices in that way. For the Advancement Party, one of the most important things is to give a great thank you and honor to all those who have been out there and done a job, which is there today, of military and civil. Without the efforts that they have made, Norway as a nation could not have been so proud of the results that we are in fact – because that is what we are throughout, and we have achieved many positive things with what we have done down there. At the same time, I also believe that if, in the light of honesty, we should look at why we went to Afghanistan, it is in any case my clear opinion that we went there as a result of the 'nine-eleven'. It was the curtain for it. Then the UN got on the track, and a mandate was created that made Norway feel more comfortable with this. But I think for the time being it's okay to call a spade a spade and it's obvious. Then we're talking about goal achievement. Achievement depends on the criteria you set to check that you have achieved the goal. If our goal is that there has been no terror of origin in Afghanistan, we may have achieved that goal. But if so, why? Is it because we have had a massive presence and made it impossible, or because we have created a change of attitude? We cannot get that answer in this Chamber today. Only the future will show us. At the same time, I also agree with those who point out all the good – I use a bad concept – the ‘side effects’ we have had through better schooling for all children, not only boys, but also girls to a much greater extent, better health services, business development, more space for political activity in Afghanistan in a different way and institution building. I understand that these were not primary tasks when we went in, but there are things that have helped to build a broader understanding of what we wanted. Let me also say that for the Progress Party, we will – and we have been clear on this – support an evaluation, a thorough, broad and preferably independent evaluation, when that time comes, and when we have fully completed what we are going to do in Afghanistan. So directly to the Foreign Minister's statement: When I sat and listened to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it struck me – with all possible respect, Minister for Foreign Affairs – that I wondered: do we really need the UN? After listening to the Minister of Foreign Affairs' statement about everything we've fixed, arranged and cleaned up in which everyone else made mistakes, I think, well, maybe the United Nations has more to learn. And I think, is the curtain for this the eminent Norwegian management and approach? In this way I allow myself to refer to a well-known American general named Norman Schwarzkopf. He once said about management: ‘It is with leadership as with pornography. I can't define it, but I know what it is when I see it." If that is the reference point of the Foreign Minister's statement, I shall leave it unsaid. I'm sure he can comment on that for himself. But if that's how we've done better than others in our approach to solving challenges we've met in Afghanistan, we have to make sure to share our knowledge. Maybe we should invite the more than 50 nations that have been there to listen to this debate? That's a good place, so it would be completely possible. So maybe they could have learned a little bit from the Norwegian, careful approach. I would like to mention again that I have great respect for the job done by everyone who has contributed, from the political level and others, but at the same time I perceive that we should be careful to say that the optimal solutions come from here. I understood parts of the foreign minister's statement as if he was almost on the level of his predecessor in describing reality in a positive way. That's very good, but nevertheless there are challenges ahead of us. So a little bit about what I've realized has been the focus here with us: I think the steady Northman thinks we've been in Afghanistan for a long time. Many have known who have been there. Many families are affected, which the committee's head was in for, after losing some of his closest, which is probably the worst, and what you're most afraid of when you're going to send some of his downhills. Others come home and are hurt for their lives. It is a paradox to hear descriptions from some who have been to Afghanistan, saying that the fight against Nav when you get home is worse than the fight against the Taliban in Afghanistan. Then maybe this statement should be about how we handle and take care of our own soldiers who come home. Another moment that I think has been interesting in connection with Afghanistan is: I've read quite a few, if not the most, books written by the Northmen who have been there. I just finished the book for Henning Mella, with the title For King and Fatherland, Malin Stensønes’ On our behalf, the book that was written with the title With the mandate to kill, and Emil Johansen’s brothers in the blood. What's going on in many of the books, as I understand it, is that you're doubtful about the assignment you've been given. It is doubtful whether it is clear enough whether the expectations between what is politically described in Norway and what they are going to do out there are correct. Those of you who saw the NRK series about the quota, I think it was quota 15, that was down there, so they describe some terribly difficult situations, and the one who is responsible is clear that here it's hard to make things go up in relation to Norwegian expectations and reality in Afghanistan. In addition, there is another thing that has been pointed out, and that is the lack of support from Norwegian politicians. That's what I think I'm pretty excited to experience. However, it has been stated quite clearly that there is a lack of support from political Norway. With regard to the conceptual discussion of war or not war, I am aware that international law has clear definitions, but the experience of being at war is, in my opinion, doubtful when it comes to being in Afghanistan. So the Foreign Minister and others talked about finding Afghan solutions. I fully share that, but what is an Afghan solution? Is there a solution prepared by them with a pashtun background, one based on the Hazara opinion, Tajik, Turkmen or Uzbek opinion, to mention any of them? My experience with Afghanistan is that your family is anchored number one. Number two is your ethnicity, number three is where you live, where you live locally, regionally – then you build beyond. I understand that nation-building in Afghanistan will be based on what power you are willing to give Kabul. What central authority the authorities will have depends on what they want to give up regionally. I think that's going to be the way forward as well. We might wish for a model here where it would be ideal for Kabul to become a capital in the same way that Oslo is a capital, where one has the political power apparatus and the starting point for political things. But I believe, with all possible respect for Norwegian knowledge – and sometimes lack of knowledge – that in Afghanistan they do not have our tradition. If they're going to get where we are, they have to do it their way. That is why I think it would be very important to keep focus on, and not least respect, Afghan solutions for the Afghans. And if they choose anything other than to let Kabul become what we think is smart, we'll respect that. We don't have to equal it, but we have to respect it. For the Progress Party, one of our main concerns about the way forward is the description of reality that we have today. Will it be there tomorrow when ISAF has left the country, and we have limited ourselves to perhaps providing financial assistance in the future? Can we imagine that we're still able to keep a lid on possible future terrorist cells that could establish themselves in Afghanistan? The Progress Party is concerned that this is a real opportunity. In the case of internal disputes, we want a democratic development under given Afghan conditions. But is it realistic to believe that? And if it doesn't, can we accept it? I believe we have no choice, because, as the Foreign Minister has been in the Chamber, the Afghans must choose the way forward. We can give good advice and input, we can support what's positive and tell about what's negative, but we have to respect it. Corruption is a major challenge, as we see it. I think that, in the view of the Progress Party, at least, it is such that if we are to continue to provide assistance at the level planned, it will assume that the Afghans themselves take hold and show that we do not accept corruption. It is possible that this way of allocating financial resources is a tradition in Afghanistan. You have to have respect for traditions, but I think that for our part we have to support the traditions that we think are acceptable from a Norwegian point of view, and not according to what is traditional in Afghanistan – because there will certainly be points where we will crash in relation to what we think of what should be done, and that the Afghans have to do. At the same time, I have to say from this pulpit that the fascination with Afghanistan is very great with me. Afghanistan cannot be visited without being affected. One of my greatest experiences was two years ago. I met a young 31-year-old district governor from South Afghanistan. They had tried to kill him up to several times. We asked him, what is the best thing we can do for Afghanistan? He said, "Move the ISAF force across the Pakistani side of the border, and you'll solve all the problems in Afghanistan." If there is something the Foreign Minister has intended to follow up, I do not know, but we will find out during the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e284	Let me first thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a thorough and tidy presentation, which has now come to the brink of the collapse period. It's true that the Storting gets this statement, so we'll have the opportunity to discuss our long-standing engagement in Afghanistan – our longest and most warlike involvement after World War II – which, hopefully, is coming to an end soon. At the same time, let me thank all the men and women who have participated in Afghanistan and who have made an effort in the service of democracy. We are the big ones – and then the government – who have sent them there. Many of them have experienced major crises mentally. Some have sacrificed the most important and precious thing, namely their lives. And it's left behind for those who have great sacs and big wounds. Let me thank them for the effort they have made. We're all going to do what we can now to ensure that the effort they've made, and the price they've paid, is not in vain, but that we can complete the assignment – at least finish it – so that we can look back at it and say yes, we got something out of this assignment. It should not be hidden on where I have personally stood in this matter. I wish we had never shared in this engagement in Afghanistan. But once it's done, and now when we're about to end our engagement, the time has come to look back at what we've achieved. Many before me have gone through and pointed out many positive features of Afghan society, where we have been contributing – we should be proud of that. We also need to protect it, rehabilitate and build on it. We still have to look at what we can learn from this. I remember when Major General Robert Mood six months ago went out and said we had to have a debate to see if it was worth it. I believe it is right that the Norwegian society and not least the Stortinge look at whether it was worth it, what the price we paid was, and what we have achieved. I see the positive things, I see the positive contributions, but I also see that many big business representatives ask whether it is sustainable. Should you stay there when we've also pulled out? And what can we do to keep this at the level it is today? An important issue on which SV is very concerned is the democratisation of Afghan society and the promotion of human rights, in particular women's and children's rights. We have also been heavily involved in the justice sector – we have built prisons, we have been involved in building up the police, and we are also involved in the necessary legislative changes to be made in Afghan society. It's important that it sticks to these things. We're putting a lot of money into Afghanistan, both in military and civil aid. Civil assistance must be extended, and this must be done to keep the dialogue on human rights going with Afghan authorities. That is the question of combating terrorism. We'll get back to that again. How much terror have we been fighting? You might say that we are not at that level – we are at a much lower level – in Afghanistan today, but we need to keep our eyes open to see if terrorism is controlled, or whether it has moved to other countries, to other continents. Today drones are used, both in Pakistan, in Yemen and elsewhere in the world – where terrorism is believed to have moved. It's a sign that the terror may have moved, but it's not completely controlled. So I want to problem it a little bit with the use of drones. It's a new tool, a new tool. It is used in the new world, which does not have the safe law, the secure framework, around it. We need to look at this so that the morals of war are maintained and the rules of war are followed – also there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e303	Let me also first thank the Foreign Minister for the statement on developments in Afghanistan and our commitment there. It is also right for me to express support and gratitude to those who have taken responsibility on behalf of Norway: the soldiers. Our efforts have had a high price, and there has been a formidable effort by the Defence Agency as an organisation and a large number of individuals. These individuals are both those who have travelled out on behalf of Norway and their closest ones who have been at home. We owe them all a big thank you. The mission in Afghanistan has been both extensive and very resource-intensive. Let me nevertheless state that it has been without doubt right to set up. Norway shall assume its responsibility for peace and security in the international community — in this case through participation in the ISAF International Military Stabilisation Force. Our commitment to Afghanistan is a matter of solidarity with the close allies and NATO. For Norway, in 2001, as we know, we were supporting NATO and the Allies when we entered Afghanistan. The decision to use military power is one of the hardest things politicians do. By fulfilling our alliance commitments in NATO in a good way, we are securing Norway's future security policy platform. But it was also absolutely essential that the operation be given a UN mandate. This operation had it. In Resolution 1368, the Security Council concluded that the terrorist attacks against the United States were a threat to international peace and security, and underlined the United States' right to self-defence under Article 51 of the United Nations Charter. When we look back later on our military engagement, I believe we should bring this perspective with us. The aim was to prevent the spread of terrorist organisations and new terrorist attacks. Today, these organisations are significantly weakened. The risk of terrorist actions remains clear, but is reduced. Afghanistan is no longer the place where it was for international terrorism. In my opinion, these conclusions are not to prejudge an evaluation of the mission; they are about the perspective we enter into after the operation. I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it was important to set an end date for the ISAF operation. We can all have higher ambitions that the situation in the country might be even better when the forces withdraw. Nevertheless, it provides confidence in the discussions that will be involved in new NATO operations in the future, that countries themselves will be given authority and the primary responsibility for developing their country as soon as the time comes. Let us not forget, however, that there are still many Nordics working for Norway and NATO in Afghanistan, through training and training of Afghan police and special forces. These should also know that they still have our full support, although we might expect that the debate will both stop and take a different direction after 2014. I would also like to support a broad review and evaluation of Norwegian efforts in Afghanistan following the completion of the ISAF mission. We must aim to ensure that those living in Afghanistan experience growth and development, not least in an even more peaceful country. During our long-standing presence, there has been a lot of debate and attention on developments in the country. My hope is that we still need to care about the situation in Afghanistan, we need to care about the Afghans, and we need to care about the development of Afghan society. Long-term assistance and humanitarian aid shall not be extended until the next year. We're going to give considerable money to finance the Army and the police in the future. In its statement, the Minister for Foreign Affairs stresses that we expect governments to take strong steps to combat corruption, improve legal certainty and promote human rights, especially for women. I believe that we should continue to impose on ourselves a strong commitment to development in Afghanistan, even when there will be no Northmen on mission in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e326	The Minister for Foreign Affairs should also thank me for a comprehensive and good account of developments in Afghanistan and the Norwegian commitment there. We have received many such presentations since 11 September 2001. They have confirmed that the work for security, for a political solution and for social and economic development in this warring country is both demanding, costly and long-term. It is also not the end of next year, but 2014 becomes, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, an important milestone. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we share Minister of Foreign Affairs Barth Eide's overall assessment of this point. The challenges are still great, but there is progress to be traced. In order to get a little historical perspective on today's situation and the year's presentation, I have published a little in the minutes of previous major debates on Afghanistan. In the light of the postwar clock, it is easy to see that the international involvement in Afghanistan was both tried and failed along the way. It concerns both the military strategy, the political process and development. The challenges were thrown on the international community following the terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001. Therefore, targets and strategies have been adjusted several times over the past 12 years. Experience has shown that we had served on better coordination from the very beginning. When this year, on 13 May, Stortinget discussed a proposal for a representative on the evaluation of the Afghanistan operation, SV attempted to make a point that other parties in the Afghanistan debate in December 2001 thought the war was over. It was naive. But that history is based on a selective misinterpretation. Let me therefore draw up a quotation from the debate in December 2001. The SV's official on the Foreign Affairs Committee said the following: ‘We in SV are also very pleased that the acts of war in Afghanistan now appear to be coming to an end.’ We have since experienced something else. The acts of war in Afghanistan have been a long time and are not yet over. But what everyone saw in December 2001 was that the North Alliance, with the support of the international community, quickly rolled over the Taliban military fortifications. The Taliban regime was about to fall. But as the then development minister Hilde Frafjord Johnson pointed out, it is a completely different matter to win the peace. Long-term development and societal change are then necessary. History has shown that military resources alone are not possible in Afghanistan either. Nor has any Norwegian government thought so. It is a recognition that we must also take with us when Norway is now sending forces to Mali. We must see the root causes of the conflict and create justice reforms that can provide a basis for lasting peace. Military efforts for security may be necessary, but lasting conflict resolution requires something more. I have compared the Afghanistan statement of 29 May last year with the foreign minister held two days ago. The main features are recognizable, but maybe this year's tone is more optimistic. The emphasis is on things going the right way. There are, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, indications of that. We hope that it will continue, but there is no need to take it for granted. It doesn't come of itself. A lot of people go around both in the Faryab province and elsewhere, worrying about what's going to happen to them and the country. This does not apply only to those who cooperated with Norwegian forces, for example: interpreters and others on whom the NRK TV series has shown reports. Minister of Foreign Affairs Barth Eide has already agreed to draw some conclusions on some issues, which will probably be carefully evaluated later. It was offensive. But I think he has the basis to establish the importance of maintaining a fundamental distinction between the development of the civil sector and the military sector's efforts for security. In the Christian People's Party we also agree that aid for development will be important for years in this lukewarm country. Afghanistan has resources that can give people a better future, but that requires more than peace and security. There is a need for an educational revolution that includes both women and men, and far-reaching reforms are required in both society and way of thinking. This is not a quick fix. It is at least a generation project. It must be matured and borne out by the Afghan people themselves. It's from such an understanding that we have to set up our support in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e361	I also want to start by thanking you for the presentation. I think it's an important and correct tradition to get such a statement in Stortinget, and I think this time it was also a very thorough and good account we got. It says something about the dimensions of our involvement in a country that is really far from us on all of the parameters we can measure neighboring countries. We have sent 8,300 Norwegian soldiers to make an effort in this country. We've lost ten of our soldiers in hits there. In addition, a large number of people have contributed both through the international service, through the police, through civil organisations and through aid workers, which has led to the fact that these two countries, which are really far apart, suddenly have very many links between themselves. There has been a broad consensus on participation in Afghanistan. All the parties have supported this in Stortinget, and there have been two different governments that have managed the mandate. That means that the Norwegian soldiers who have been in Afghanistan have actually experienced a great deal of support in Parliament related to the job they were going to do. However, I believe that as parliamentarians we should think through the use of words and whether there are ways of saying things that might make that support even clearer by those who are there doing the job. The size has a great responsibility for follow-up both before people leave, when people are there and after. Here's the thing that we all in this room are actually responsible, and I think everyone should have had a culture where we would have been more willing both to evaluate along the way and to take learning points along the way. It is known that the Left had wanted us to have an overall evaluation at this point in time. It was debated in this Chamber a few weeks ago, and the Council of State also mentioned it in its presentation. Now, fortunately, everyone agrees that it has to be evaluated – we just disagree when it has to be evaluated. It is clear that we should also adjust the course along the way. Maybe we should have gone to a different culture where you had in-flight evaluations, where it was clear before you did new grips, that you had actually evaluated the grips you had done. I think that our long and large presence in Afghanistan might be a lesson in how we work, both as a magnificence and in the various disciplines, in evaluating the participation along the way – preferably from outside – in order to have open processes for what we do that works well, and what we do that works badly. We in the Left are probably still on the point that the evaluation should have been done by now. Now the Norwegian exposure goes into a new phase. That doesn't mean it's over. I think we have to admit that we are going to be in Afghanistan for a long time to come. The assistance will continue long after 2017, and we will continue to support the construction of the Afghan army, the military and police personnel in the country. I think we have to realize that when we go into international operations like this, we already have to admit at the entrance that such tasks are not as short-lived as they can be heard from the political side for the first few days of such action. We have to take responsibility for what we're doing. Last year in this room I referred to a story from an Afghan taxi driver who said, "Don't leave us." We still have a responsibility to build on what we've been doing, and we don't leave people in trouble when we've started that project. I would like to point out some of the challenges raised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his presentation. The Minister for Foreign Affairs said that the area of human rights is'smartly mixed'. I believe that is an understatement. There's a lot to postpone in the field of human rights here. It was also noted that Afghanistan was one of the ‘world’s worst countries for women’. I think it's gonna be important for us in the future to strengthen civil society, because it's civil society that's always backed up and developed women's and women's rights. Then education becomes a key role both in terms of assistance in general, and especially in Afghanistan, if we are to be able to free the women who today do not have the opportunities they should have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e382	I will start with one of the perhaps most important things to say at this point in our efforts in Afghanistan, and that really everyone who has spoken has already said. It's that there's a very broad consensus about and very broad support for what we've done, what we're doing, and I also feel what we're going to do in Afghanistan. We know that in this room, but it's important to say that, because we have a lot of people out there who take a very high risk every day, for example. our special forces in Kabul. They should know not only that they have very broad support from home, but that Norway is perhaps one of those countries throughout the NATO alliance where the consensus is broadest. There are a number of countries where, over these years, there have been considerably greater tensions around the efforts in Afghanistan, and although debate and disagreement are entirely legitimate in a democracy, and a decision that is taken is taken whether everyone voted in favour or only the majority voted in favour, it has its own value to say: we are behind you who are out there. I think it's important that it gets registered, that it's been, that's how it is, and that's how it still is. There is no discussion in Norway today about ending before. There's full excitement that we're going to run out, and that we're also ready for the next chapter in Afghanistan. I also want to get to grips with something that the head of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence said that I think is very important to understand. It's that what's going on in any such operation while it's being developed, and that's especially important right now, in the middle of the transition, is that what we're trying to influence is expectations of the future. There are perceptions in the Afghan population about how it's going to go. Then the question is not what it's like today, how it was yesterday, but what it's like in the future. For what is peace in a way? All people, whether they're Afghans or Norwegians, will make a number of decisions in their lives based on answering questions like: shall I stay here, or shall I leave? Should I send my kids to school? Shall I use the get the money I have to invest in something? Shall I build myself a house? And what's governing? At least I know that what governs my decisions on such things is not how it is today, but that is how I think it is in the future. Because I live in a country where I believe that the future is reasonably transparent in terms of security and security, I make choices that I wouldn't make if I was fundamentally uncertain. For the same reason, it is clear that those who want to undermine the project, understood as the building of democratically legitimate regimes with effect in relation to people's lives, will also adversely affect those perceptions. That's why there's a big competition in Afghanistan about the story of the future, and where the Taliban and other rebel groups necessarily want to tell us that the Afghan authorities are not going to succeed – this is going to collapse, when the foreigners leave, chaos and disorder come to us, we offer something better. That's the situation we're in in the middle of. The specific situations that we have experienced both in Afghanistan in general and in Faryab in particular in recent months, and that have been a lot and, in my view, exaggerated negative focus on in many Norwegian media, are just an expression of a struggle for the future that had to come, whether we went a year ago or go to next year. It's natural. What is reported is when the Taliban attacks Afghan security forces in otherwise well-known areas, in exactly the same areas as our forces have struggled with the same type of fighting throughout our presence, for example. in Kaisar. What has not been reported is who used to be, and in most of these cases Afghan security forces have stood up, taken the fight and turned back. Attempts to take new areas are to a very small extent successful on the part of the Taliban, as they actually succeed. But of course, it's complex, and as Ellings said, even a 40-minute statement can't capture all of these complexities. Of course, that's absolutely right. But it is important to understand exactly this, and therefore have the impression of the future, self-sufficiency and material value for the people of Afghanistan – and of course for donors, for political governance, etc. Then I understood, once again from Ellingsen's posts, that I've created the impression that Norway has understood a lot of things that no one else has understood. It's definitely not my impression, nor the impression I want to create. But what I want to point out is that one specific issue in international cooperation has been a rather significant source of disagreement. It is: how should aid be set up? In fact, there has been much more agreement on what has been the main military focus, first stabilisation, then training and training, so that Afghans can take over stabilisation. There has been little disagreement about, but how should civil assistance be organised? What Norway has done is listen to the UN. The question was, do we need the UN? Yeah, definitely. We have listened to the UN, we have heard the international conferences in London, Tokyo, The Hague, Kabul and everywhere else where we have said more long-term, more comprehensive, large-scale projects rather than very short-term projects, respect a fundamental distinction, i.e. coordination, but not contact. Not only have we done it, but there has been such a message, which has ended up in many countries, and then it has developed an alternative theory, which for at least a few years was called COIN – Counterinsurgency Warfare – which went on: No, rather, take the aid money under the military strategy, share a little here and a little there, find a local person in the village who says he's chief, bumped under him, and then you get friends. But the problem is that it actually hasn't worked, and it's starting to become a pretty significant documentation, not least in the United States and in the US Congress, where you've gone through this with very critical eyes and looked at: where were all the billions granted in this way? Well, they either contributed little to improvements or much to aggravation. That's why I think it's right that we've been in that fight. But no one has a monopoly on the truth, at least I don't, and these are complex questions. So another reflection that I want to share, now that just a lot of people have pointed out that we have to learn, because we're going to know what we're doing on the next crossroads. We're at the next crossroads, because we're going into Mali, we're going into a new operation, on a much smaller scale from our side, but a big and important operation for the international community. We have our own discussion about it, but I believe that the mandate, the configuration, the logic, the political thinking – the holistic thinking – around Mali is quite good and correct. We'll describe that here in Stortinget a little bit more next Friday, I think. These include: Because in Mali, which in many other peacekeeping operations has built on past knowledge, experience from previous operations, but when Afghanistan was created, much of the opposite was done. It was a very special climate after 11 September 2001 and in the years when the neo-conservatives ruled the U.S. administration – there was a big difference between Bush in the first four years and the last four years. In the first period, there was a very central point for central strategists in the U.S. administration that we should have the least possible international organisations in – you should have the least possible UN role, and you should actually have a small NATO role, too. It took a year and a half before NATO got a key role in Afghanistan, despite the Article 5 decision. You actually didn't use that. I was the State Secretary in the U.D. and experienced it closely. We were quite frustrated the weeks after 9/11, because despite the decision on Article 5, there was very little use of NATO. This is why something else was done – split up, captivated, Afghanistan in regions and provinces and distributed to individual countries, which were to go and sort out according to their own overall approach. I have said in the presentation, and I say it again, I don't think there was any particular good idea, at least not in the long run – perhaps as an immediate measure. But that is why, when we evaluate, and everyone in the Chamber agrees that it should be evaluated, we also have to ask ourselves about and understand: what were the specific parameters of international policy in 2001-2002, which were different from today, but also different from a few years before? We had just completed operations in the Balkans. They got better and better. They started badly, but gradually got better, because they built some kind of cumulative learning. A number of operations elsewhere in the world in the 2000s have also improved, have been successful, but Afghanistan has suffered to some extent from the fact that the starting point was that it should be done quite differently. You were in year 0, and strategists like that. Paul Wolfowitz thought that all previous learning was a little irrelevant, because now we ran, and we know better. When I say Norway has chosen a slightly different approach, it's not because we've had a unique alternative insight, but we've tried to build on experiences that the world community has built up over time. There is also the bit of criticism of the very PRT concept that I have added, and I would like to have more discussion about it. Then I want to use the last few seconds to say that we've been very busy being there and communicating with our soldiers. I have been in Afghanistan ten times, the Minister of Defence has been twelve times in Afghanistan, other leading politicians and the committee is good to be here. It has also been to bring with us – and I have always brought with us – the message from us in common: we are behind you in Norway, you should know that! I think that's important to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e401	The President may confirm that the presidency of today's meeting has set up a statement on the agenda next Friday, i.e. on the 14th, on the subject referred to by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e407	Let me first say that I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs who now explains when he talks about the different strategies. There is no doubt that experience has been gained during the time in Afghanistan, and the need to make changes from night operations, where individual elements have been taken out in the Taliban, which has provoked the Afghan population and the president in such a way that changes need to be made to it. At the same time, the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out in his statement the focus on PRT and PRT solutions. As I read the Minister for Foreign Affairs, he is well pleased with the Norwegian model. Among other things, I have visited the Turkish, who is purely civil, who had great losses at first, but who thought it was very important to distinguish military from civil work in that way. The challenge at my discretion is: Why have more not been taken into account and gained a greater basis for experience, so one would have had a more – to use the foreign minister's concept – overall approach to this, if one has a model that is better than the others?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e414	I believe that we have definitely done so. This has been a theme that we and I have personally been engaged in every year we've been in Afghanistan. We've had it up in international meetings. We've been talking about it in NATO. We've been talking about it in the United Nations. We've invited you to a conference on the PRT model. I will definitely say that there have been clear improvements along the way. Even if you have a basic model that you see weaknesses in, you can make the best of it. Nor is it the case that each country can invent completely different solutions in an international operation and do things fundamentally differently when it is first started. The point is that the reflection I'm doing now is very much because we're invited to discuss what we've learned. I'll advise future designers of international operations not to copy that particular model. Then I have also visited a number of PRTs other than the Norwegian and seen a lot of good work. I also have to admit that I have seen a lot of work that I think had little constructive effect, although it was obviously well-informed, but not particularly well-informed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e421	It is not just in this Chamber that we are discussing the future. Centrally located Afghan sources also talk about there being a significant internal discussion in the Taliban about what future will bring. There's a certain proportion that's war-ridden, there's a lot of people who want reconciliation and reintegration. The program of reconciliation and reintegration that has worked until now has had approx. Six hundred Taliban going through, and there's 900 in the process. There is also a greater division in the Taliban and the Quetta Shura than it has been in the past. Here, the regional perspective comes back into the picture. To make things last, Pakistan has a key role to play. It was the representative of Akhtar Chaudhry who was involved in the relationship with Pakistan here as well, and there is no doubt that, in particular, the missing border, between Afghanistan and Pakistan poses challenges. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs say anything about what dialogue is being held to engage Pakistan constructively in the future of Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e428	I would first like to say to the Taliban comment that there are definitely different trends within the Taliban. It is correct and important to look at the reintegration programme for those who are jumping off the Taliban, but the most important thing is a dialogue with the strategic Taliban on the options they are taking. There is the message that the Americans, like us, like Karzai, who many have suggested, must choose a more political path, and will therefore be offered a place within the political system when they accept fundamental constitutional principles and leave the battlefield. They haven't, but it's the trail. It is absolutely central that Pakistan plays a constructive role in this. I think I would say that in Pakistan there are actors with many different roles, and they will spread over a long spectrum, from very constructive to considerably less constructive. It is therefore also important to have a more comprehensive and coherent Pakistani policy in this area. There is something you do, among other things. through the Friends-of-Pakistan process, but also through the regional processes we've been doing and moving on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e435	I noticed what the Foreign Minister was talking a little bit with Ellingen about, this with assistance and how it was arranged: we followed the UN, and we had a long-term and comprehensive strategy. Then it was said that others had done something else, and it was not successful, but it was said little about how the results of the strategy we follow, along with the UN, are. Can the Minister for Foreign Affairs say anything about the results of the work we are involved in?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e440	Some of the results I pointed out: a significantly higher life expectancy, a much higher level of education, a better situation for women, an improved infrastructure, roads and a ring road that is almost complete across the country, for example. These are physically visible examples of long-term assistance. But I think we should be so honest to say that it is significantly more difficult to provide long-term assistance in a conflict country than in a country where everyone is positive about the assistance. There have also been opponents of the aid, because the aid has been seen as part of a modernisation project that some Afghan actors do not want to see. For example, schools for girls are a statement about what we think about education for women and men, which not everyone in Afghanistan agrees with. This, of course, has made it a more difficult situation. But at least I am absolutely sure that good and established insights into how long-term assistance is to be carried out are also relevant to Afghanistan, and you cannot take a shortcut with simple solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e445	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e448	First, I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for an excellent account of the situation in Afghanistan and the more than ten years we have now had. I think it is very important that we have such an explanation and debate, for the people we have sent down there, who have been there for many years, should also know that we are burdened with them and what they are doing, and that they have our full confidence. It is now more than ten years since the removal of the regime in Afghanistan by the international community and its commitment to participate in and provide leadership and support for stable development and a coherent and democratic Afghanistan. It must be said that in these years there has been both progress and regression. The situation in Afghanistan is not entirely clear. People are still living with conflict and setbacks, and the region is marked by instability. But one must also in a day that today, when we have a discussion here, ask himself the question: What was the purpose? In that case, the United Nations Security Council Resolutions must be used as a starting point. It was to help prevent a terrorist movement from being tempted to plan and carry out extensive terrorist acts. In order to achieve such a goal of building a country, a country must have a civil commitment to promote economic growth, political rights, respect for human rights and sustainable institutions in that country. Afghanistan is today a country with elected leaders. The choices have not been perfect, but there have been important choices, and – not least – it sets a standard, among other things. with a full vote for women. It also means that the principles of Afghan ownership and transition must be fulfilled, and they must be filled with content. Here the international community, together with the Afghan authorities, has a great responsibility. I also refer to the Tokyo framework, where Afghanistan committed itself to making the elections credible, inclusive and open. The most important thing is to abdicate most people perceive the process and the result as credible. We have committed ourselves to long-term cooperation. The signature of the Strategic Partnership Agreement commits us. It obligates both countries. In particular, the Afghan authorities commit themselves to strengthening efforts for human rights, women's rights, good governance and anti-corruption. The international community has committed itself to providing at least 50 pst. of assistance from Afghan budgets and 80 pst. in line with the 22 Afghan national priority programmes. Norway is well above this 50 pst requirement. The 80 pst target is more uncertain, due to different interpretations of what is in line with national priorities. There are several points of light in the Foreign Minister's statement, and I would like, among other things. mention one point: the gradient appears to be working. The transition process has even been speeded up in several places and the training of Afghan security forces provides absolute results. Looking at Faryab, there has been a marked progress in education, health and infrastructure. Meymaneh has become an economic center with stable electricity supply. The World Bank, which provides formidable support for the construction of schools, training of teachers and infrastructure purposes, should also be mentioned in this context. Nor should we forget the efforts of voluntary organisations in Afghanistan. There are still major challenges, and it will be demanding, but we must have faith that there are opportunities. The Afghans themselves – and we – need to find solutions that can work and that take into account the situation in the country. Now the task is to consolidate and build on what we've achieved. We must have faith in the possibilities and not give up now.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e476	On Tuesday 4 June, we witnessed an exercise in something we're very good at here on the mountain, that's to appear a little bit self-sufficient and with an ability to define the most that's done, as a success. Whether it actually becomes a success, only the future will show. The future is created – it is not adopted. Misunderstand me correctly: the Foreign Minister is a capable man. He has the best intentions and has a lot of knowledge. My point is that the statement on developments in Afghanistan was marked by the fact that all countries have something to learn from Norway, and that everything we do is an example for the rest of the international community. I am tempted to quote a great representative from the Workers' Party, who should have said, "When the neck is bent, the umbilical cord is very close." It must be said to describe our self-righteousness quite well. I am also tempted to point out a contradiction in the statement that was made on Tuesday. The Council of State said early in the presentation: ‘Afghanistan is no longer a venue for international terrorism.’ Later in the presentation, the Taliban and other insurgents were presented with an attack against Afghan security forces, and we were recently given direct action to fight, including in the field of drugs. Norwegian forces were involved, against just such groupings in Afghanistan. The risk of terrorist groups continuing to operate in the area is high. We know that different rebel groups are active. We know that in these environments terrorist groups are engaged in their activities. It's a challenge, and it's a challenge we can't consider to be solved – nor in 2014, when the ISAF forces pull out after the mission is done. The risk of continued activity by terrorist groups is imminent in Afghanistan and in the rest of the region. In my opinion, it would be very naïve to believe that the risk of flowering of unwanted activity is small, despite the fact that the Afghan security forces are in a much better constitution than they have ever been – until there is the country and the environment down there. History has shown that, and history should be learned from. I also understand the explanation that was given, whereas the only blessing is assistance. Norway shall provide 750 million. kr every year until 2017. Of course, it is important to help build Afghanistan, but if it is something that history has shown us, it is that this is a country with many facets. Different groups, tribal communities with their own interests and low national consensus prevail. We know that corruption is widespread – something the Minister for Foreign Affairs also stated. He stated that the Afghan authorities have undertaken to implement reforms in financial management, to implement free elections and to respect human rights. It's all good. Different financial laws have been adopted and are to be implemented. However, it is worth noting that the statement was little concrete about what action Norway is taking to check that the means of assistance we provide do not disappear in the large swindle. It's disturbing. I wish it had been clear what measures have been taken to ensure strict control of the means of assistance. A prerequisite for providing assistance must be that the effect is optimal and gives tangible results that are measurable. Finally, I have to take the opportunity – from this pulpit – to say that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was relatively brief in the mention of the 8,300 Norwegian soldiers who have made an effort on behalf of Norway. We have lost ten Norwegian soldiers – heroes – in the fight for peace in Afghanistan. Several have come home with physical and/or mental harm after their service. My speed in this room is short, but during the weeks I've been a staggering representative, I've heard several central government councils talk hot about the treatment of our veterans. I must be allowed to say that I am a little impressed, as there is little connection between the honorary words spoken from this pulpit and what several veterans actually experience in everyday life. A short time ago, I met one of the most badly injured in Afghanistan. Kjetil came home, the comrade died. For six years Kjetil has fought for compensation, and that fight he has fought against the state of Norway. I have experienced hearing a council of states say from this pulpit: ‘The average duration of proceedings for major damage is around five years’. In my opinion, it is unacceptable that hard-damaged veterans should wait and fight against public authorities for several years, before compensation is given. I have also received many enquiries from other veterans who have experienced, and experience, fighting the system over several years after earned service. To me, these stories are in stark contrast to the impression you've tried to create from central authorities. The impression of success that the Minister of Foreign Affairs is trying to communicate in his statement, which was held here on Tuesday, would not have been possible without the women and men who have been in difficult situations every single day. They and their efforts mean more than paper exercises. Therefore, in my opinion, one should be more focused on achieving success in terms of our moral duty to care for our veterans.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e510	I too would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a broad and good review. With the backbone of this debate, it would just be lacking that we do not take the time and opportunity to carry out such a thorough review. There will always be someone who can criticize the review and presentation for being too optimistic, and maybe a little shudder that we do things right, directed by the Norwegian side. That debate is enough to live with, but this is ultimately about the fight against international terrorism, and Norway is part of this fight. We have participated with weight – materially, humanly and economically. Eleven years of experience in Afghanistan has shown that through participation we have managed to gain a very useful and important experience in many ways. This is our greatest military engagement ever in modern times; thousands of Norwegian women and men have been engaged in Afghanistan. We have also been shown that being in place with our largest aid exposure also brings us important experience. We also see in this house the effect of how to deal with the fight against terrorism. It's only a few days since we had a new case, where Mali has become a new arena for terror, and where a kind of world police force, based on UN decisions, has to take hold of developments. This also affects Norway, with the experience and background we have, among other things. from the fight against terrorism in Afghanistan. There is no doubt that ISAF as an institution has evolved into a kind of pattern for a world police force – when the World Organisation takes that kind of decision. At the same time, I think it is important that we distinguish between whether the action in Afghanistan has been successful and the challenges we face after the 2014 enlargement. There are huge challenges that I think are presented and taken into account in the debate in many ways. There is no doubt that eleven years on the ground in Afghanistan has led to an increase in security rugs around the population of Afghanistan. Several people who have spoken before me have explained developments in education, infrastructure, electricity supply, Internet connection, mobile communications, etc. – not least training for girls, and the quantum leap made in this field; it is significant. The challenges we are now facing are the extent to which the civil sector will be able to take over the task. Here, I don't think anyone in the Chamber has answers to what will happen – not least what will happen in and around the presidential elections in Afghanistan next year. There is no doubt that we will never achieve any security in Afghanistan without democracy. On the other hand, it can be said that we do not get any democracy without security either. Then we just have to hope that in Afghanistan one does not do as in some other countries, that through democracy one will get a development in the future where the Afghans themselves choose democracy away. Because it's only through democracy and the security of the population that we can get rid of terror, the Gulf of Corruption and the Gulf of Hatred that will characterize the nation for decades and generations to come. It simply means, in my opinion and that of most people, that development cannot be controlled from anywhere other than Afghanistan. There's the big challenge. But there are also challenges in coordinating the gigantic money pile that is put at the disposal. If corruption persists at about the current level, we will soon see after 2014 that optimism is turned into pessimism.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e527	Norwegian military forces have been, and are still, an important contributor to the international NATO-led effort in Afghanistan, where 50 nations are still participating. Through our long-standing presence, we have made considerable efforts. At the same time, we must recognise that challenges remain. Norway now has a limited but very important and requested strength contribution. We do much, thanks to our well trained and skilled soldiers. We have asked for capacity when the ISAF and the Afghan authorities have asked for it. Our support for the Afghan police is a good example of this. As many have said, the effort over the years has cost us dearly. Ten Norwegian soldiers have lost their lives in fighting acts in Afghanistan. The arrival of Mazar-e Sharif in April this year was a strong reminder of this. The total support for our soldiers, all the soldiers who have been and are in Afghanistan, means a lot, and also the kindness of families and relatives. The representative of Ellingen mentioned a matter that I often meet again in debates because the debate on Afghanistan often goes right into this whole period, starting from that, instead of thinking about why we really went into Afghanistan. And that is what must always be our starting point for the debates. Although there have been word changers here at home, we must never forget that the support for the soldiers has been great, but it is clear that we should wish that everyone actually experienced that support. I also want to stress that even though we had soldiers in UNIFIL for 20 years, it was only after 2005 that we really got involved in making a veteran policy. We have created a comprehensive veteran policy to take care of our veterans both before, during and after the operation. Single stories impress us all. Here I fully agree with the representative Staahle: Some cases are such that one naturally wants the proceedings to go further. We're going to work on it. We have to work on getting better. This week I have attended NATO's Minister of Defence meeting, where we, among other things, have attended. discussed the ISAF operation and the way forward. We got a thorough update on all aspects of the ISAF operation. Later this month, as known to Stortinget, the final phase of the transfer of security responsibilities from ISAF to Afghan authorities will begin. This means that the main task of ISAF towards the end is to conduct operations to guide and support the Afghan security forces. Strengthening the capacity of Afghan security forces has been, and is, the prerequisite for the Afghan authorities to take over security responsibilities. This work is now well under way. The Afghans themselves now manage most of the operations and most of the training. There has been a recent focus on the alarming safety situation in Faryab. It is true that the Faryab province is still facing a wide range of challenges. The causes of this situation are complex and complex. The main safety challenge continues to be conflicts between local powers, insurgents and criminal networks. It was never considered realistic that ISAF could remove all these traditional contradictions. The Afghans have to deal with it on their own. The security situation is fragile and unrest will persist. The Afghan security forces will be tested again. The transfer of security responsibilities was not made because the security situation was perfect. We and ISAF left the province with the assurance that the Afghan security forces maintained a sufficiently high level, and we broke out of the Meymaneh camp because both Afghan authorities and ISAF wanted this. The extraction of the ISAF forces led the rebels to challenge the ANSF to expand their geographical influence. Thus, the measure of success is not whether Faryab has become a peaceful province but whether the Afghan security forces are able to deal with the situations that arise. Our assessment is that they are doing it today. Then there are several people who have been concerned about something very important: the military effort is one thing, but if one is to be able to establish stability and peace in Afghanistan, civil action and political effort are necessary. In accordance with the changed operational needs and priorities, all ISAF nations are in the process of reducing their strength contributions and adapting the contributions to Afghan responsibility management. The Norwegian strength contribution has therefore been reduced, reorganised and adapted to the needs that have been prioritised. Advice and training in Mazar-e Sharif and Kabul are now the main tasks. In addition, Norway, with instructors and mentors, is still providing the headquarters of ISAF and various educational institutions for the Afghan army, as well as staff officers. The total Norwegian strength contribution has been reduced from 560 persons in October 2012 to 270 persons now, and further reductions will occur after the end of the C-130J contribution on 1 July. The Norwegian Special Force Contribution for Advice of the Afghan Special Police Crisis Response Unit in Kabul has been decided to continue until the end of 2014. This is a very important special police unit that has been used during several major and complex attacks against western and Afghan targets in Kabul. The Norwegian Special Force Contribution has gained great recognition for the way in which they have solved and solves this demanding task, both from ISAF and the Afghan authorities. Continuing this contribution means that Norway maintains an important and highly profiled contribution to ISAF. In addition to this, we continue the mentoring in Mazar-e Sharif to the middle of next year. The conclusion of the ISAF operation does not mean the termination of NATO-led efforts in Afghanistan. Operation Planning Resolution Support is already in progress. Yesterday, at the NATO Minister of Defence meeting, we approved the concept and the framework for this operation. The military planners will now begin the preparation of the more detailed operational plan. This operation will not be a continuation of the ISAF operation, but a minor and completely different operation. It will not be a combat operation, but instead one will focus on counselling and training of departments and central institutions. Advice of Afghan security forces will be limited to corp level. The planning basis for the international force — and I would like to stress that it is the planning basis — will be between 8 000 and 12 000 people, divided into five regional main bases. The effort will gradually be concentrated in the Kabul area. Norway will also contribute to the operation Resolute Support, and the government intends to assess the extent and mechanism of the Norwegian contribution during the autumn. The Afghan security forces are at a good level. They're getting better and better. Of course, they are not Norwegian or Allied forces in terms of technology and support capacities. It's never been the goal either. Our aim, on the other hand, has been to build an Afghan self-capacity and threshold against unrest and an army and a policeman who has left and run by Afghan elected authorities. This is a responsibility that the Afghan authorities must also take. What Afghanistan we see today – and which many have been in and described – is quite different from what was in its time an area for international terrorism. There are still challenges, and we have committed ourselves to further supporting Afghanistan. More than ten years of comprehensive international efforts will be over when the ISAF operation ends at the end of 2014, but the international community’s contribution to Afghanistan will continue beyond 2014, and Norway will be part of this effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e575	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e578	I have a simple question for the Minister of Defence: can the Council of State confirm or disclaim that we have representatives present in Afghanistan now from both the Marine Hunter Command and the Defence Special Command?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e583	I think everyone knows we have special forces in Afghanistan. I think I'm limiting my information to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e588	Fortunately, a recent study of the health status of our soldiers who have been in Afghanistan showed relatively uplifting results. At the same time, there is no reason to doubt that there may also be times after this for the Afghanistan veterans when the late effects occur and where there is great, perhaps especially psychological, stress. At the same time, we also know that there are many Afghanistan veterans with physical damage that are now struggling heavily in the civil auxiliaries. Kjetil Bragstad has been mentioned here earlier. So it's a veteran who lost his leg, and he's been waiting six years for a response from the State pension fund — six years. The Council of State says in its statement here that some cases are such that you do not actually want the proceedings to go so slowly. However, does the Council of State consider that six years is a reasonable period of time, or will she now act towards the State pension fund, possibly allowing others than the State pension fund to carry out this task on behalf of the State pension fund?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e595	With regard to the health study of those who have been to Afghanistan, I am very pleased that a comprehensive study has been carried out, that we have put health records in place in the Defense that enable us to follow the soldiers year after year. If late effects and damage occur, we will be able to continue the development of the soldiers through that health register and the follow-up – as we have told us to repeat year after year. It's very important precisely to be able to do what the representative is doing, not to get into the trap that we can't take care of the soldiers in the future. So this health study we've said we're going to keep going. Some parts of it could be more frequent than other parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e602	The question I specifically asked was about six years of treatment in the State Pension Fund for a veteran who has been in service on behalf of Norway and who has lost his leg – whether it is a good time for proceedings, or whether the State Council will now act towards the State pension fund in order to shorten the treatment period. Unfortunately, Kjetil Bragstad is not the only one who meets the wall when he meets the civil auxiliaries, whether it be the State pension fund, the Nav or the specialist health service. But the question is, in six years' time, a proper procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e609	It is not possible for me to go into the individual matter. I know the story of Kjetil Bragstad from Afghanistan, but what I can say is that the trial period is too long when it's six years old. So there might be a lot of reasons for a trial period to be long, but it shouldn't be like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e616	I registered that the Minister of Defense admits that the treatment of the veterans could have been better, and that their legitimate demands should have been better addressed. A few weeks ago, I met this soldier, Kjetil, in the hiking hall. I made an apology on behalf of Stortingen for the way he was treated. Does the Minister for Defence think it is natural that such an apology comes from the opposition, or should the Minister for Defence, as the chief in charge of Norwegian soldiers, be in trouble to excuse the treatment he has been subjected to?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e625	As I said, it's very difficult for me to go into a single story in Stortinget, and we actually don't like to do that either. Often it may be a beginning to tackle a fundamental problem. As I said, it's not acceptable that someone should wait that long. That's what I can say, and so the State pension fund is not in my department. But what we've done is we've had a lot of dialogue with the State pension fund to provide information about the soldiers in Afghanistan, so that as case handlers they should be well aware of the situation. Then it's simple stories that are bad, and we have to learn from and take care of. But there is no doubt that most of the veterans get good follow-up today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e634	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e638	Norway's efforts in Afghanistan are against dwindling, and it is very positive that many developments are now going the right way in Afghanistan. This indicates that it was right that we sent Norwegian soldiers there. But it has cost. Ten Norwegian young soldiers have given their lives in Afghanistan. Unfortunately, many more people will be struggling with physical and mental damage for the rest of their lives. The struggle for good, for the values we believe in, such as democracy, freedom of expression and equivalency, have cost. Norway has sent over 8,300 Norwegian soldiers to Afghanistan. These have been set to solve demanding tasks under time pressure in a complex situation where they meet difficult and ethical dilemmas. Our soldiers in Afghanistan have been ordered to kill both on behalf of the Norwegian state and in some situations to give their lives to Norway. It's important that society gives veterans the recognition they deserve for the job they do on behalf of Norway. Most of those involved in international operations are strengthened by it, but unfortunately not all. Too many troubles after they come home and have trouble recovering to a civil life. Often these problems come many years after another service. Of the solar data in my team in Lebanon in 1980/81, i.e. over 30 years ago, is 30 pst. today died. How the situation will be in 30 years for those who are now coming home from Afghanistan will be, among other things. depends on what kind of offer is given to those who need it. We have to assume that international missions have a cost both in the course of the operation, and also in the aftermath of the mission, because too many people get hurt – usually invisible damage – that they have to deal with for the rest of their lives. Veterinary organisations have repeatedly pointed to the failure of labour and welfare management to manage personnel involved in international operations. The criticism is about a long period of time, too extensive documentation requirements, lack of internal coordination and a lack of competence about the veterans' situation. We need to get better here. Although some things have gone in the right direction over the last few years, we still have a long way to go before we are at a satisfactory level. Maybe we should also assign a veteran coordinator to each state that can help veterans through a bureaucratic system. The community is responsible for this follow-up, and here we must take advantage of all the good forces, including private actors. It is also necessary to ensure a satisfactory compensation system for those who cannot be completely rehabilitated so that they can maintain a decent living situation. I will end by reading the poem The best, by Nordahl Grieg: «Death can flame like cornmo; clearer we see than before every life in its white pain: it is the best that dies. The strong, the clean of the heart that would and dared most; calmly they took off, one by one they went west. The living rule the world; a flock will always be left, the indispensable good ones, the second best men in life. The best are murdered in prison, swept away by bullets and sea. The best will never be our future. The best have enough to die. That's how we honor them, with remorse, with all the emptiness we know, but then we have weakened the best, betrayed them with bitterness. They will not be grieved for the dead, but will live in courage and faith. Only in bold hearts is the blood of the failed ones flowing. Is not everyone who has known them more rich than the dead were – because men have had them as friends and children have had them as fathers. They increased the life they went from. They're joking in new men. On their graves shall be written, The best shall always be left."
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e737	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e740	The Minister of Foreign Affairs made a good and transparent statement, drawing a picture of what we are going to see in Afghanistan in 2014 when international forces are going to stand out – a situation we have the best hopes for, but we cannot ignore the fact that it can meet major challenges. One of the most gloomy images could be that the Taliban launches a war that has been put on hold pending the withdrawal of international forces. Many who follow the situation see it as a pleasure that Afghan forces are still proving capable of dealing with the Taliban on their own. Thus, resources and assistance from the international community show positive results. There is no doubt that the international community in the future will also provide resources and help to the Afghan government. Then you do well to have a certain presence in the country and not do as it was in Vietnam in its time, when the South Vietnamese were left to themselves. What worries the pessimists are two things: Firstly, many people who want Afghanistan to succeed further and see it as a weakness that the national authorities have more fragmentation in their ranks than was the case for the Taliban, which appears to be united and more coherent. The second weakness is the regional perspective. We know from history that no war in human history has been left untouched or without interference by regional powers – whether it is the Thirty Years' War of the 1600s or two World Wars of the last century. It is clear to many that regional powers in the Afghan region are also fragmented in view of post-2014 Afghanistan. Not only are conflicting interests expressed by regional powers but they have begun to position themselves. Therefore, we are hoped that the international community, and in particular countries that have made an effort in Afghanistan, will use its influence to get a comprehensive regional strategy to guard against the Taliban exploiting it for its benefit. The danger of this is present if no action is taken. Norway has made a great deal of effort in Afghanistan for which there is respect. There are great expectations for Norway in the future as well. This statement makes it clear that Norway will continue to provide a better and better Afghanistan in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e761	I really wanted to clarify a few things about the post from Tom Staahle. The first is that there is no contradiction, as was pointed out, because with international terrorism, we mean – and that is the established use of language – terrorism that takes place in countries other than where it originates, for example. Al Qaida was in charge when they were in Afghanistan to plan more attacks in the United States. The fact that there are fighting acts in Afghanistan and that Afghan Taliban are involved in them does not mean, according to that definition, that there is international terrorism in Afghanistan, and I think that definition is quite widespread. At least that's what I meant by that. The other representative that Staahle mentioned was that he thought I had said that the only charity was assistance. I don't remember saying that either in the statement or any other time, because I really don't think so. I think there are things that are more important than assistance. I mean, for example. that a political solution, the establishment of a good governance system, the provision of a basis for security – both military and law and order – and a system that people end up with, are even more important than economic development if it is to be ranked. But everything is related to everything, and therefore it is important to have an overall approach. On the contrary, my criticism has been that some people out there have thought that the political challenges could be overcome with assistance, that they could buy support and understanding for projects through short-term aid projects. That's why I just want to make it clear that I definitely don't think that's right. I also need to say that neither I nor anyone else in the government has intended to say that there are any particular Norwegian insights. On the contrary, we have taken a decision on a matter that has been very broad in terms of international wording. We are following what the UN has thought, what the international Afghanistan conferences have drawn up, and the conclusions we have actually reached in the formats in which we are discussing the facility of aid, but not all of which have followed when it came down to the ground in Afghanistan. Finally, I want to say that there are still challenges in the field of science, and we have a collective failure sin in terms of how late it was. But no one has done more about this than Minister of Defence Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen, who really put it on the top of the agenda when she was Minister of Defence for the first time, and continues to do so. There are infinitely more insurance schemes — the best in the country for some public officials — and much better coordination between the agencies concerned than before this government took over. There is still work going on, led by both the Minister of Defence and other relevant Councils, to do this even better, and there is no doubt that there have been strong improvements. That's what all the veteran organizations say.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e774	There has been a good and broad debate with shades. At the same time, I perceive that the device for support is still fixed by everyone who has been there. It's nuances in terms of the way forward, it's maybe nuances in terms of criticism and how you look at things, and I think that's good, because that's what politics is about. But one of my great crossroads of thought is about the debate we have today, is honest enough. Or is it that when we've been in Afghanistan for so long, as we've been, and used so much money, we have to point out results? How else are we going to be able to defend being there for so long, if we haven't achieved the goals we set? It is not certain that a different government would have reached a different conclusion than the one that has been brought up here today by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence, but at least it worries me that we do not focus more on corruption as we know is a major problem in Afghanistan – it has been and will continue to be so. In fact, the Foreign Minister said that Karzai and the Prime Minister have agreed and signed the agreement further, and that action should be taken. But are we going to do enough with this? Another area that has been challenging in Afghanistan, and which, in my opinion, is still, is whether the state institutions are strong enough to deal with the flow of money going through them. Feedback I have received when I have been there is that there is a large amount of money disappearing out of Afghanistan every day because there is a lack of tools to deal with all the funds coming in there. I do not mean to be negative – on the contrary – nor do I think it is about being realistic and honest in this debate. I understand that a government that has been responsible for the implementation of what Stortinget has provided, wants to falsify and point out what has gone well – that is natural. It's possible there's things I haven't understood, of course, but I may miss that we're more honest and take on the things that are difficult. I have seen that the debate has to a large extent been about everything that has been done is good. I realized that the Minister of Defense said instead that we should not measure the security of areas that we are now withdrawing from, but that we should see that the ANSF was able to handle it on its own. But it presupposes will. That they have the capacity to do so may well – probably they do – but is the will there if it becomes critical? Well, that's what makes the difference. You can have all the equipment in the world, but it won't help if you don't want to use it. So I have to say that I think the change of lines instead – between several replicants and the Minister of Defence in a six-year period of procedure – is alarming. I do not expect the Minister of Defence to be in charge of proceedings from the Parliamentary Chair – it might be false – but not to have an opinion on whether six years is too much or not, I think it is directly weak – regrets. I think the defence minister should have said right out that this is too bad, so don't be. It's a clear message to everyone else, at least the way I see it, that you're very careful to figure out something, possibly because it's unpleasant.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e785	The reason for the change in line after the Minister of Defence's posts, I think there is reason for everyone to point out first that the legitimacy and trust in these types of operations depend entirely on our taking good care of those who come back home. But to ignore the significant measures taken by the government towards the work on vets, I think we should be careful. Both structurally and individually, very good measures have been put in place that have helped a great many. There is probably one more way to go, but – with all due respect – these are measures that have contributed well to many people and have probably prevented a lot of suffering in the future. Since the opposition chose to use the cord shift to involve a very specific matter, I think the Stortinget should have an information about this matter that is more adequate than what you are left with. It is claimed that Kjetil Bragstad has waited six years for a response from the State pension fund. I know him very well, I have helped him and have a lot of contact with him these days. I hope he gets a quick solution – that's what it takes. We need to get faster in this field, but in the name of propriety it must be pointed out that the State pension fund has answered him. A significant amount of compensation has even been paid to him. There is a dispute as to the amount of compensation to be paid. It can happen in these cases, and then of course it will take time. There are many actors who have a ownership that there will be such a fight, but I feel the need to say that he has received an answer. He has been paid compensation, and there is a stoppage that remains. I am convinced, with the process that is now under way by the authorities, that he will have a solution to his case. Several of us contribute to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e792	Just a few comments. The representative Ellings said in his first post that it is the Afghans who must decide in the further process and that we must respect their choices. I don't think there's any disagreement about that. The Afghans themselves must create their own future. But there are some prerequisites on our part for our support in the future. They are defined in the Development Assistance Agreement. They're in the Tokyo Conference. It is democracy, respect for human rights, the fight against corruption – that our contributions must reach their destination – and it must be emphasised that it is part of the whole package. We have to go many extra miles with the Afghans in the years to come to make sure that what is now created of opportunities for a better future is taken care of and transformed into a better future for the Afghans as far as we can. But we're not going in any direction. It's important to underline. So to Trine Skei Grande who said she wanted everyone to have a culture for learning along the way. We have discussed this many times, at the latest in a separate case not long ago. It's been done. The military have learned from their operations, adjusted and changed their efforts along the way. Civil assistance has been evaluated by independent organisations, as we do with assistance. It has been repeated and repeated in these annual debates, but to the Left we are talking to deaf ears. It's the Left that doesn't know how to learn from this. The representative Chaudhry asked if we had controlled the terror, or if it has moved on. That is a timely question, but at least we have ensured that Afghanistan is not now a place of international terrorism. The Taliban gave Al Qaida a rescue. I don't think that's going to happen again, and we have also removed a regime that I think many in Afghanistan experienced as a terrorist regime. It's gone, and there's hope for a better future. Then we see that terror appears elsewhere. We see that there are still attacks and suicide attacks in Afghanistan, as part of the internal power struggle. That's right. I have two pictures from our visit to Kabul. One is a barbed wire on the top of a wall and beautiful Afghan, snow-covered mountains in the background. The second is from the streets of Kabul: two school students, boys, sitting with their backs against a wall and in front of them a girl with a big hug on her back with a big face on, namely Hello Kitty. I hope that's the last picture that's going to shape Afghanistan's future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e805	The Minister for Foreign Affairs responded to my intervention on this matter with international terrorism. My point is that although it is now said that this is not a place of international terrorism, we have no guarantee. We can't put two lines under that answer and say it won't happen in the future. That's what's my point, that you shouldn't undermine the significance of the risk of that happening. It's happened before, and I'm absolutely sure it could happen again. That's what I'm bringing to this square. So to this with veterans. If there's something the red-green government is concerned about, it's the concept of interaction, the Norwegian model and the welfare community. I noticed that the Minister of Defense wouldn't talk about individual matters, but what this is all about is individualism. And we, as responsible politicians, have a responsibility to be quite conscious of taking the responsibility it involves. For these people who are actually serving the country, they are to be treated as individuals and as individuals. Once someone has sacrificed limbs for the country, you can stand here and say that these should be cared for and treated in a good way, but it's also about implementing what you're actually saying. My impression – after talking to Kjetil for example – is that this is absent. I ask this Chamber to take this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e812	I'm not going to cross out the discussion. There is at least no doubt that you never know what is going to happen in the future, but the whole point of the continued effort and the building up of effective Afghan governance and security forces is that this should not happen again. So that's where we agree. But I felt that there was a claim that there was an inconsistency between saying that it was not today and that I later said that the Taliban is still operating. These are two different things. But the reason I took the word again is just to answer several important and good questions about anti-corruption. I feel it's right that we confirm that this is not just something we say we're fighting, or saying that we're trying to reduce the risk of our money ending up in corruption, but this is something we're doing very specifically. We do it by working to choose good and well-known partners with whom we know who is, and with whom we have a good dialogue. We're doing it through very thorough audit schemes, which have been strengthened in recent years. We do it by drawing on Norad's extensive experience in identifying risk factors, so that you meet them in particular. Many of the multilateral instruments we use have their own control mechanisms, which are also based on long-term experience. The Tokyo commitments and the bilateral agreement we have concluded with President Karzai in Afghanistan also refer to this, as it has been mentioned. So these are concrete, concrete measures. So Norway is not sending money into the state budget in Afghanistan, as someone seems to think. We spend money through multilateral channels, including: through the reconstruction fund for Afghanistan, controlled by the World Bank. And then it's the World Bank's extensive auditing mechanisms that form the basis for it. It is, in fact, right to say that the budgetary processes in Afghanistan are more transparent and more verifiable than those in a number of other countries, but that there is corruption and corruption risk in the country, there must be no doubt about that, and I also put great emphasis in my explanation. I would also like to thank you for a very good and informative debate. I think we're going to take along the message of the broad consensus and keep communicating it to our people out there, both our soldiers and our civil servants.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e825	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e839	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 45 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes each to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e848	We are going to deal with the announcement of the government's international cultural effort, and I see that the government is doing great by being three government councils – the Foreign Minister and two other government councils – present here in the Chamber, on a matter where there is almost consensus. I have to say that, based on our experience from previous issues we have dealt with in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, this is relatively impressive. So I understand that the international cultural effort is being taken very seriously. Before I start on the content of the message, I must also say that it is with a certain amount of resentment that I stand here today. This is the last matter I put forward as a case rapporteur in Stortinget after 12 years, so I know it a little bit in my stomach. The Communication highlights how to strengthen the internationalisation of Norwegian cultural life, which is important for Norwegian culture, but also as a door opener to Norway and as a door opener to business from Norway. Much of this is about reputation building, network construction, and not least about the ability of cultural industries to fit in globally. It is an overall committee that underlines the importance of the visibility of the efforts made in the cultural sector to Norway and Norwegian culture. And to do this, it's important that Norwegian cultural values are reflected in international cultural work. I have been so lucky that over the eight years I have been on the Family and Culture Committee, and now on the Foreign and Defence Committee, I have attended a number of events in the world where Norwegian culture has been presented, and I have visited many foreign stations. It has impressed me very much how the foreign stations have been able to show and disseminate Norwegian culture in a very excellent way. And that applies not only to performers, but also to design has had a prominent role in the work of foreign stations. This is good, because it shows that it works: promote, interest and finally sell – whether it's a product, an artistic exercise, or our country itself. So the work and efforts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs stations, and not least the skills they have gained, during my 12 years in Stortinget, are significant. However, we should remember that the contribution made by the Norwegian authorities is only a small part of the overall picture – not very small perhaps. In fact, much of the cultural exchange takes place without the support of the public, and the artists themselves are the most important contributor to it. So far, the committee is unanimous. And then there's some places we're separating layers. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, believes it is important that the artists themselves are responsible for the cultural effort, but that the business, administrative and networking aspects can be part of what the public can do. Unfortunately, sport is no longer one of the areas of strategic cooperation with countries in the south. Or is it? This seems somewhat unclear, and the majority of the Committee considers it problematic that sport is not part of the government’s communication on international cultural activities. I guess someone else would say more about this. Then I'll be brief about the things that the Progress Party doesn't join. The reason why we're outside some of the comments is that they're concluding with something that we can't join. So instead of breaking up the notes, we've chosen to be outside the whole comment. Of course, we agree that culture contributes to identity creation and individual development, or that one can develop the position of women and perhaps also rights through culture. But – and that’s a but – the commitment that has been in the cultural field in developing countries has seemed a little thoughtful and less focused. For me, it becomes a bit festive when the objectives of the communication for aid-related cultural cooperation are to reduce poverty, strengthen human rights, get a fair distribution, and the importance of culture for identity, democracy, development and diversity. I came from Bosnia late last night, and I have seen and experienced in the last few days that culture does not always unite – rather on the contrary. Even in European countries, culture divides people. So maybe you should have a slightly more balanced view of this. I was supposed to say a lot more, but time goes too fast.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e883	Yes, then the representative may sign up for a 3-minute post later.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e886	If you have nothing else to complain about, you have to complain that there are too many government councils in the hall. It's quite imaginative. We now mark that it's 150 years since Edvard Munch was born, one of our greatest artists, who also robs internationally and is one of those who picked up impulses and was embossed by many years abroad – and an example of art and artists dealing with an international, a global reality. Henrik Ibsen is another example. But it's not all bad to have Munch and Ibsen's dimensions. That's why we have a policy to bring Norwegian culture and Norwegian culturalists out, and to bring impulses, ideas and inspiration to our home cultural life. This government has carried out a non-parallel cultural lift, with nearly 5 billion dollars. in increased appropriations for the State budget. The cultural promise has also covered the international cultural effort and provided a budget increase of 130 million. kr. Helping Norwegian culture, Norwegian artists and practitioners out to a wider audience and international success is one important aspect of the international cultural effort. Culture is also a growing part of a versatile working and business life at home. In 10 years, the number of employees working in and out of cultural industries has increased by 50 pst, and the value creation — measured in dollars and cents — has increased by 70 pst. If there's any part of business that can see an entire world as its market potential, it's culture. The writer Jo Nesbø, who is out with a new export article these days, is one example, the architect's company Snøhetta is another. The second important aspect is the use of Norwegian culture in presenting Norway as a nation. Norwegian cultural expressions will help put the footprint we want to leave behind internationally and create a broader picture of Norway out there. Norway is not just the holding of the oil fund in well-known London tradesmen. It's also Edvard Munch's paintings, Ole Edvard Antonsen's trumpettones, or Oslo Philharmonic concerts, Snowhetta's library in Alexandria, or Ground Zero's memorial in New York. Culture is also an instrument for opening up new and strengthening existing links, such as in the North Region Initiative, where networks of people-to-people cooperation help to link stronger links across a previously closed and suspicious border. Because culture in its essence is international, it also serves as an idea and model for similar initiatives across other borders in Europe, characterised by the same challenges and the need for new contact. The cultural programmes of the EEA financial instruments are part of this. Through our contributions and cooperation with the recipient countries, we help to strengthen the cultural heritage and cultural diversity of countries, but also to use culture as a channel and tool to build a Europe where borders are no longer links between people. The third pillar of our international cultural effort is linked to our development policy. Here, cultural cooperation should not only help to shape our footprint or open up new opportunities for Norwegian practitioners. More importantly, it is important to help culture to play on its entire impulse register to contribute to the building of society: as a culture of value and identity, which builds human rights by crushing artistic freedom as a foundation, which contributes to economic growth and jobs – as we saw on the Tinga Tinga market during the visit of the Foreign Affairs Committee to Tanzania – which bridge old divisions and build blocks in the development of a civil society. Culture in development policy is also about strengthening the cultural rights of the United Nations, respect for cultural world heritage in order to avoid the accumulation of unreplaceable Buddha statues in Afghanistan or the attempt to burn library taxes in Timbuktu, and respect for copyrights and copyrights – in short, the construction of an international legal order also in the field of culture. Finally, as the rapporteur pointed out, there is quite a broad consensus in the setting. But this setting masks a lot of inequality in implementation. Right cutter 1 billion. in the appropriations for this area in its budget for this department for this year, the Advance Party cuts SEK 7.5 billion. kr, and both parties will make their strongest cuts in the aid budget, which will also weaken the opportunities for cultural development efforts. The Progress Party then also clearly states in its position that they believe that the efforts to strengthen the cultural sector in developing countries are far too extensive. Words are free, but it takes money to make the words come true. The right hand and the Progress Party prioritise billions to reduce the tax burden on those who already have a lot of money. We believe that this money makes more use of it, among other things. in our international cultural effort.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e920	Thank you to the President-in-Office for the thorough preparation of the matter in the Committee. I did not see the case rapporteur criticizing the heavy presence of the government in this debate; I perceived it more as a sort of compliment, because the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence has not always been as well consulted on various matters that it has been dealing with. That's why I don't think anyone should have to sit with the idea that this is some kind of overkill in the government debate. But now leave it. I did not see it as a complaint to complain, but still. I also think that the Workers' Party's representative Svein Roald Hansen might have concentrated on talking about culture and the positive effects culture has on people-to-people cooperation and in the 'icebreaking' context, door opening etc., instead of talking about budget cuts that have a completely different explanation and composition, and a completely different policy in the foreign policy chapter than in this particular area. I am not going to drag the representative Svein Roald Hansen into talking about customs or trade policy or moving and strengthening aid for increased trade, etc., and what kind of impact this can have within the concept of foreign policy, other than to say that there is a broad consensus on these political priorities. Nor should it be harmed, as I feel, that this is presented as a giant news – that it is a gigantic presentation as such of a political innovation – because culture in the field of foreign policy is not something that arose today from Norway. We have plenty of experience in using culture as a door opener, as a positive marketing of the nation, and not least as a door opener for Norwegian business success in trade in goods and services. It's just to see the history of the Nordic Council, it's just to go back and look at how over 30 years of Barents policy has used culture as an important door opener. It was not necessarily invented in the various departments of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it was nevertheless part of the political picture and the priority given to regional priorities. For this reason, the cultural section of the U.D. should also take into account the success that regionally has also been able to create and develop through the concept of culture, which has been a real political people-to-people door opener and also a door opener to create industrial and industrial success. There's no doubt that we can say that increased efforts on culture are also in this context a win-win situation, both for the nation and also for the individual practitioner. There is no one who argues that artistic freedom must be put in the throne, and that it should not be ruled politically by any team. Let me also, as the case-rapporteur, add that it is a little strange and almost incomprehensible that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs cultural section chose to take sport out of Strategy for Norway's cultural and sporting cooperation with countries in the south, and that it is relevant to ask questions about what the government thinks about the sport in development cooperation being at home, where it belongs, when the field is not involved in the new strategy. In the home arena, what doesn't it mean for other countries to be invited to the Norway Cup? Football betting was recently illustrated in one of our big television channels, which took up our investment in Vietnam, etc. as part of this policy. I assume that since the government is heavily represented, we get good answers to this. But we must also, like the State pension fund, set some ethical guidelines for our policies. Unfortunately, we have some bad examples, like the project where 20 Norwegian artists made party games in North Korea, and Håkon Gullvåg's exhibition in Damascus is no good example. We have negative examples, but it might be discoloring the entire debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e939	We are living in an age of increasing globalisation. A thoughtful policy for international cultural cooperation is becoming increasingly important. It is about art experiences and business activities, about value-sharing and assistance. Cross-border contact opens up mutually enriching art experiences and cultural exchanges, without focusing on commercial considerations. There's something many of us value. Cultural policy must contribute to an active and living Norwegian cultural life and to Norwegian culture being part of a mutual dialogue with an international cultural life. But it can also be a profitable business investment. Munch's paintings are investment objects traded at sky-high prices. Norwegian artists – whether they are musicians, writers or visual artists – have products that will find international markets. We have Norwegian financial interests to attend to. On the other hand, cultural cooperation can also focus on helping poor people. In order to receive aid funding, the main objective must be to promote social, cultural and economic development in other countries. Norwegian industrial interests may not be the main purpose of such allocations. It would be contrary to international rules on what can be accounted for as public development aid. The focus here is on the interests of others. Such cultural assistance can contribute to the fulfilment of the cultural rights of disadvantaged people and to the security of values that can help lift them out of poverty, discrimination and rootlessness. The government’s big difference between the cultural cooperation we make based on our own interests and the aid-funded part, which is, of course, to be carried out on the premises of the aid. I know the need to clarify this, because even in this area, if we stick the cards and charge the wrong budget, it will be unthinkable. We need more awareness of this distinction when discussing the use of state resources in international cultural cooperation. There are sliding transitions between culture and other businesses. We should probably work more with drawing up appropriate limits on cultural support in relation to normal business support. I think the message could have been more clarifying here. The Christian People's Party has a strong cultural exposure. We value the fact that living cultural life preserves both traditions, innovation and cultural diversity in society. So I would particularly like to remind you that at Stortinget's treatment of St. Announcement. 22 for 2004–2005 on culture and nutrition, a joint and unanimous Committee on Family and Culture asked for the government to contribute to the naturalisation of the export of performing choral and vocal music in the international cultural effort. This has not been followed up by the red-green government. I would therefore ask the government once again to ensure that exports of performing choral and vocal music have a natural place in the international cultural effort. Culture is more than aesthetic experiences. It's also an expression of values. Culture contributes to the formation of individual identity, groups and communities. It is often not said directly, but a conscious cultural policy must also take into account the fact that exchange of cultural impulses also accommodates conflicts of value. Conflicting values are broken down by cultural exchange. We can influence – and we can be affected. Let me also remind you that not everything that happens has to be state-funded. Much of today's cultural contact and artistic cooperation across borders is often done without public support. This is because individuals meet and travel, because artists meet colleagues and exchange experience and inspiration. Each year, billions of cultural aid and cooperation are granted. The management of the funds must be transparent, responsible and proportionate. It's a fight for the means. We always have to keep an eye on the distribution of funds. We must have a balanced cultural policy and avoid unfair distribution among competing players in the cultural market. Otherwise, in the Christian People's Party, we have noted that sport is not part of the government's announcement of international cultural efforts. So it falls a little bit between all the chairs. It is a challenge, because we need a political anchoring also of assistance where sport is a means of engaging, activating and lifting people out of poverty and into active life development, together with norms and rules of play, happy and hope.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e967	The government took the initiative in stepping up the international cultural effort from the first budget, and we have continued the high ambitions of both periods of government. The government's cultural policy through the Cultural Promise has led to a significant strengthening of cultural life. The international interface of cultural life has increased, and Norwegian culture has become more popular abroad. In this Communication, the Government presents the international cultural effort in its entirety. The notification is based on the recognition of the societal capacity of culture, of the right of every human being to know his own cultural heritage, and of the fundamental importance of culture for the identity and belonging of individuals. It is therefore based both on the self-esteem of culture and on the ability of culture to contribute to other societal goals. The cultural promise at home and abroad has given a completely different impact in the work and has placed cultural work as a more central part of the day-to-day work of the EEAS. The government has presented a communication that looks in context at the cultural policy importance of the internationalisation of Norwegian cultural life, the importance of culture's development policy and the importance of culture's foreign policy. I think we have succeeded in this. It is gratifying to note that the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence seems to be far on the way to sharing this view. That's also why three state councils are present, as we were when the message was presented. Cross-border interaction between different cultural directions and expressions creates crossing points and meeting places as a starting point for renewal and mutual enrichment. Technological development multiplies this international interface and opens up new channels for exchanges and breaks between attitudes. But it itself creates a need for more understanding, so that you are able to interpret across traditions and cultures. Migration, a central phenomenon in our time, also contributes to providing new content to the concept of ‘diversity’ as part of the core of Norwegian cultural policy. All these are forces that strengthen globalisation – where culture has both local, national and global anchoring at once. The cultural processes that transcend borders are part of globalisation. Norwegian cultural life is part of Norwegian interests. Norwegian culture and Norwegian art expressions are also an important contribution to the Norwegian voice out. Art must be free. It has to be excited, it has to be angry, it has to move and inspire. As we heard, at least some of the art has already disfigured the representative Kristiansen. So it's part of the art. Norwegian art and culture mirror a diversity of actors and expressions. A free art scene with a variety of expressions testifies to freedom of expression, democracy and equality. In other words, it reflects the basic ideas of our society. It contributes to a good international reputation for Norway and has become a high-value foreign policy resource for the EEAS. It can also be an important contribution that adds weight to other processes in both politics and business. Let me, for example. mention work on developing the cultural dimension of the EEA funds. There is something that helps to strengthen Norwegian cultural contacts outside but also promotes social development locally. Ditto: As has already been mentioned, it has been important for the government to play an important role – as it has done and has done for many years – in the Barents region. That is something we strongly advocate. When we have a broad cultural presence internationally, and Norwegian cultural life has actively cooperated internationally, this also builds up the relationship Norway has in important co-operation countries, The government’s efforts to support the international ambitions of Norwegian cultural life should therefore also take into account the artistic expressions that have a realistic goal of earnings, for part of Norwegian cultural activity is an international industry in terms of market value and export value. We have done so explicitly in the message. We think it's important. This connects us again to Innovation Norway as an important instrument for the export industries, including the cultural industries. Through cooperation between the departments, Norwegian foreign service at foreign stations and Norwegian cultural organisations, I believe we have a good form of cooperation for the international cultural effort that contributes to concrete results. The comparative advantage of the EEAS in supporting the international ambitions of cultural life is primarily the proximity of the local cultural scene, knowledge of the institutions of the service countries, programme creators and organisations. I would like to end by saying that I am pleased that the Committee adheres to the basic principles of work and that there is a broad consensus in the vote that the effort is and will be ambitious.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1003	Norway shall be a leading cultural nation. There was also some of the ambition behind the Cultural Lift that was introduced in 2005 and that has contributed 5 billion. kr more for cultural life in Norway. That means a doubling of the money for culture. But being a leading cultural nation also means seeing Norwegian cultural life as part of a greater health, and seeing an international audience as our target audience. The big picture of international cultural efforts brings with it perspectives that will be important for the future cultural policy of the government. I am very pleased that there is such a wide disintegration about the basic principles of the Storing Message. Art and culture are important for individuals. It is important for quality of life and life. But it's also important for society – and it's important for democracy – because a country with a living cultural life is better placed to have a living democracy. Art and culture do not live in a vacuum. Norwegian cultural life wouldn't be what it is today if it weren't for artists to constantly seek out inspiration, to see themselves and the art with new eyes and hopefully also come home with new perspectives. Norwegian culture and Norwegian artists are all part of the international scene. The films ‘The Headhunters’ and ‘Kon-Tiki’ are sold to over 70 countries around the world, and earlier this year the NRK Super and the production company Fabelakt won an Emmy for the best children’s TV program. The Dance Company Carte Blanche has 19 preferences abroad last year, and in 2014 the National Museum of Art, Architecture and Design is responsible for the Nordic exhibition at the Venice Architecture Biennial. These are just a few examples of Norwegian cultural life working internationally, and Norwegian artists being part of an international art scene. In many ways, international activity is also an institution for a living cultural life here. When Norwegian artists and cultural workers cooperate across borders and at the international arena, or when they turn to target groups in other countries, it strengthens the artistic quality, knowledge and competence of our own cultural life. I notice that the Committee's pluralism explicitly adheres to it. International impulses help to increase the lack of cultural expression, and it opens up our culture towards other countries. It expands the foreign audience for Norwegian artists and artists, and it increases the value creation in the export of Norwegian art and culture. Some of our most central artists up through history – whether it's Edvard Munch or Henrik Ibsen – they went out, they spread widely, and they took inspiration from abroad. It also needs a future Edvard Munch and a future Henrik Ibsen. We therefore facilitate international activity in several ways. Norwegian Culture Council is one of the most important administrators of support schemes in Norwegian cultural life. It is therefore important that the Council of Culture facilitates the participation of cultural life in the space for international cooperation. The Culture Council has been given a strong role in this work, and it will further develop its international competence in its field of competence. Other examples of actors with high international involvement are Music Norway, OCA and the National Library. I have noticed that the Committee's plurality has underlined how much it means that one contributes to spreading Norwegian scientific and scientific literature abroad, and NORLA is doing an important job here. The international exchange is not only abroad. Well, it's so important that we have international arenas in Norway. Every year, there are a number of festivals that gather artists from many countries and present cultural expressions from other countries to a Norwegian audience. I was at the Festival in Bergen not long ago. It is a good example of a Norwegian arena that is internationally interesting and relevant. Several scenes present a high number of international guest games and co-productions every year. Another aspect is the value creation of exports of art and culture. A good use of the potential available on the world market can help cultural industries to continue to grow and develop. This is why the government has set itself the objective of a new action plan for cultural industries to contribute to increased value creation and exports. Examples I've drawn up illustrate the range of international activities in the cultural sector. It's falling wide. It shows that international activity is an integral part of cultural policy, and it shows that international efforts are important for all parts of cultural life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1020	In January of this year, I attended a stadium in Santiago, Chile, along with Joan Jara. She told me about her beloved husband, artist and musician Victor Jara, who was tortured and killed by the Pinochet regime because the singer's voice could make people's hearts burn thousands of times stronger than the despotic metallic speech. As a child, Victor Jara was killed to help me grasp the power of art to democratize a society. We can use aid money to give today's oppressed artists more protection, help them resist authoritarian forces, develop their culture and spread it. This is good help. Norwegian development policy is based on human rights. Article 27 of the Declaration of Human Rights is precisely about art. It is about the right to participate in society, to express its cultural identity and to express itself culturally. It is about the right to copyright – the right to copyright. Human rights are much tougher in reality than on paper. Victor Jara actively used his right to express himself culturally until the dictatorship stopped him in the 1970s. Today, the same court is threatened elsewhere. What political conflicts in the world today are not about culture in full or in part? Discrimination against women’s participation in society, discrimination against ethnic and religious groups and minorities – it is largely about restrictions on being able to live and express oneself freely. When cultural rights are violated, individuals lose something of fundamental value – and society becomes poorer. That is why we are going to use development policy to protect the right of artists to express themselves culturally. Living out and developing their culture freely – it's about human rights. But it also does that to have the copyright of new cultural expressions. It is also important for economic development. Culture is absolutely necessary for democracy and living societies. Therefore, cultural cooperation is also important in peace and reconciliation. I agree with previous speakers that culture has a value in itself. Therefore, Norway supports the creative power of culture in developing countries, and we use aid money to help poor societies build good cultural institutions and competences. Although societies may be poor in money, they can be rich in cultural traditions and living cultural expressions. This Communication shows how a strong and free culture contributes to social and political development, to economic growth, to employment and to the strengthening of democracy. I mentioned the copyright of artists for what they create. These days, a legal training programme is being conducted in Oslo for artists from 18 countries where copyright is particularly weak, under the direction of Norcode/Wipo. Where basic cultural institutions and organisations are lacking, and the public administration lacks knowledge of how to develop a cultural policy, Norwegian support can make a difference. In Malawi, Mozambique, and Zimbabwe, we support local music schools. It is music schools for young talents who play both traditional music and pop music from South Africa. Music schools are in contact with local companies so that students can have the opportunity to live from their art. Protection and management of cultural heritage also have many poor opportunities. Therefore, it is important to build knowledge on how to do this, but also how to react quickly when crises occur, for example. where important cultural taxes are at risk of being destroyed, as we have seen examples of both in Mali and Syria. Today's music life in Mali is rich and is noticed far outside the region. It has been a proud expression of the identity of minority groups, such as the Tuareans. In addition, old cultural treasures in Northern Malta have been able to provide the basis for tourism and economic development. This is therefore a typical example of how important it is with Norwegian support – when Islamist extremists have destroyed cultural treasures and imprisoned musicians. You can see examples of taxes being destroyed and people being taken prisoner because you want to use your cultural right to participate in society. Obviously, they need our support. That is why we have supported the annual Desert Festival in Mali. It has given room for many persecuted musicians and has been an important stage of cultural diversity in the region. I am pleased that the government and the Stortinge agree that culture will continue to be part of development policy. I would like to take this opportunity to say thank you for working with Karin S. Woldseth – especially her strong commitment to the fundamental rights of children.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1049	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1052	Monday and Tuesday this week, Barents' cooperation could celebrate its 20th anniversary. There was a great visit to my home country, with our own prime minister at the head – with colleagues from close and dear neighbours in the north. When you see the guest list in this celebration, it's not hard to understand why the northern regions and their importance are the most important strategic focus of our foreign policy. The cultural dimension of the Northern Region policy supporting cross-border people-to-people cooperation is of interest to a number of European countries dealing with minority problems and unresolved inter-population conflicts with long, historic roots. Slovakia is one of several countries that wants to learn from what has happened to us in the north – and had to contribute our lessons and our experiences to lasting peace between the people of the Balkans. Just in this perspective, we must not forget that it was the culture that was the door opener during the cold war of the 1950s. The key card used in 1959 was coded with sports and music. The card not only unlocked the border gates – it also reopened the natural interaction between people in the north. Since then it has evolved into peaceful coexistence. The government has also developed a Norwegian-Russian action plan for cultural cooperation in the northern regions. The action plan aims to promote development and strengthen the friendly relationship and trust between the peoples of the two countries, and also expresses a desire to give new impetus to bilateral cooperation in the field of art and culture. Central to this is the importance of creating meeting places between people. The cultural programme BarentsKult aims to contribute to the realisation of artistic and cultural projects in the north – in the Norwegian and Russian parts of the Barents region. An example of something happening there is Barent's Spectacle in the Churchnes. Those who haven't been there, early in February, and got the festival, should definitely do it – out in the bone frost, in the dark time with snow and wind, with a variety of cultural activities and with artists from many countries. It's an experience that gives freezes on your back – literally. I think I have my words in mind when I say that today, in a foreign policy focus, the importance of culture has formed the basis for the Prime Ministers of Norway and Russia to talk about visa freedom between our two countries. It was an unrealistic idea when the breaker club from the Church visited the Soviets in 1959. In the Northern Region Strategy, indigenous peoples are also a priority target group. The establishment of the International Sami Film Centre and the Riddu Riddu festival are examples of strengthening the international role of Sami cultural institutions in a cultural policy context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1071	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1085	In this case, Stortinget deals with the annual reports of the permanent delegations for 2011 and 2012. This concerns annual reports from the Permanent Delegations to the EFTA Parliamentary Committees and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, the Interparliamentary Union, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in the European Parliamentary Assembly, the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly and the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly – the latter only for 2011. As the Committee's position focuses on, Stortinget has a broad commitment to international issues and a high level of activity related to participation in Parliamentary assemblies. This is of great importance both in promoting Norwegian interests and in getting more knowledge of different themes in other countries. For the annual reports of the delegation to the EFTA Parliamentary Committees and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee, the topic is European policy issues and the interface between Norway and key EU-related institutions. In the other delegations, peace, security, democracy and human rights are key themes. Let me make a brief comment that, as in the past, Norway’s work in NATO, the OSCE and the Council of Europe are no longer being made. However, it is important that the Storting should be informed of this work and that there should be a debate on Norway’s efforts in international organisations. Such occasions may, for example: is provided by the government promoting short, day-to-day credit transfers or presentations focusing on relevant issues within each organisation. Another possibility is that an annual wholesale report is being evaluated that addresses the government’s work in international organisations as a whole. In this context, I would like to stress that emphasis should be placed on what the government wants to achieve in its work in the various organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1096	I take the floor for the plenary session in Stortinget to be slightly updated on the cooperation originating from the EFTA Parliamentary Committee and the EEA Joint Parliamentary Committee with the European Parliament, which is responsible for following up the EEA Agreement. Following the implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon, cooperation between the European Parliament and the national parliaments has developed in different areas. National parliaments are invited to consultations in the European Parliament on specific policy areas, for example: Development policy — and a joint meeting a few weeks ago. Norway is trying to be invited to these meetings, and we feel that we are increasingly being invited in line with the EU Member States – and we are taking part with representatives of different professional committees. There is an important part of the opportunities to get into the processes also in the case of individual cases, where it may be of interest for Norway to try to capture our policies, taking into account our special interests in the European Parliament. We have received four permanent observer posts in the Joint Parliamentary Body, which replaces the VEU, to follow the security, foreign and defence policies. There are now proposals in the Commission to have a parliamentary instrument to follow Europol's work. On the Norwegian side, we have recorded a wish to be an observer because we are a member of Europol. We had a meeting of the Joint EEA Parliamentary Committee in Brussels last week, where the case-rapporteur on this matter in the European Parliament showed a great deal of sensitivity to our wish. In fact, you asked for input of the setting. I believe that this is an important part of the European political work of the Storting – that we are not just using the two formal channels we have, namely the annual meeting of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee with the counterparts of the European Parliament and the Joint Parliamentary Committee, but that we are expanding it so that more and more committees are given the opportunity to make representations and be involved in influencing the work of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1107	I can start by saying that I fully support the conclusion that these annual reflections may not be as relevant as we would like them to be, but there are other alternatives. Some of them have been included in the Committee's configuration, but annual reports are also written. I am relatively sure that this is done in the Nordic Council, and also in the Council of Europe the annual reports that we publish on the portal are written. The delegations are made up of different parties, so I see that it is a little difficult for the government to make messages about visions, because there are different delegations and parliamentary assemblies. Thus, it cannot be done in such a way that the government is to give leadership to what the delegations are to do, because it is up to each lot. As I see it, these reports must be a big paper. Of course, you can write about visions relating to the budget for next year. Parties have the full opportunity to influence as long as they are in a delegation, but also the government can give signals through budgetary work on what you really want the delegation to focus on. There's really no problem, because in a lot of these delegations there are fundamental things that there's really a lot of consensus among all the parties about. Some of the delegations are very visible, and some are totally invisible. I don't know exactly what they're doing. But some have been very good, and thanks to the presidency, I would say, it has been said that the various committees in Stortinget should have the Nordic Council work in mind when they work on different things. I might imagine, since the Council of Europe is close to my heart, that sometimes one could also implement part of the work on which the Council of Europe focuses, and which is their primary pillars – that it and the various conventions could go in as part of the work of the committees, when they look at it. I also want to stress the importance of having delegations. We now see in the Arctic Council that thanks to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and others, you have managed to get China in as an observer – which means that now we are inside. Now we're together inside. It will then be much easier to be in dialogue – just like in the Council of Europe. There are 47 countries, and not just EU countries – there are many countries, and many who violate fundamental rights in terms of both human rights and democracy, but at least we have them within, and I think that is very important. Both the dialogue, the networking and the incredibly important work that – I have been put up with that concept – ‘Parliamentary Diplomacy’ is, is incredibly important and incredibly useful, so we must somehow continue to have visions of the work we are doing in the various delegations. I will not go into what the Council of Europe is doing, as I have said. We report from every session, four a year, and in addition we come up with our own annual report. All the representatives of big business can read that, and of course the government too, so I don't go into that, but it's a necessity that we take a debate in between. I think that's very important, so it has to be my final comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1118	The rapporteur, Lars Peder Breck, has presented in an excellent manner the position of a unanimous committee in this matter. I do not intend to repeat what he gave as a reason as such, but it is important to stress the possibility the government will have to promote current messages or presentations in areas of which those who have spoken here have underlined the importance of. It is important, of course, because we must cultivate the parliamentary anchoring in our work in these important institutions of which we are a member, which is the foundation of our own security, the foundation of democracy, development, construction, cooperation on security, development, etc. There is no one who suspects a single department to sit with a desire to have this as its arena alone, but I think it will strengthen both government and magnificence to have a parliamentary anchoring and discussion on the current issues under discussion, whether in the case of the OSCE, the IPU, NATO PA or other important institutions. Pursuing the parliamentary international network and the parliamentary debate here at home will ultimately benefit us all. This was just an underline, and I'm pretty sure, at least in this case, that no one disagrees with what I presented here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1127	I would like to thank the government for the adjustment and acknowledge that we accept that request. I very much appreciate that there is an interest in having a good and proper interaction between big business and government on the key issues of the organisations we are in. It can only serve both parties, and it serves Norway's collective influence and co-responsibility both to solve concrete issues and to promote important norms and values in the international community. I can join 100 pst. to what has been said about the importance of parliamentary anchoring, so we take the recording with us. Let's think about how we do it. I'm recording that there's also a consensus that the old way we did it, with summarizing messages, is not the way to go, so we need to figure out the shape of it, so that we can look forward to making up the status of where we stand. We're going to work on that with a lot of commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1134	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1148	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1155	In such a multifaceted case, which over so many years has been the subject of considerable debate and many views in public space, it appears as something blessed uncomplicated when we have finally come to the proceedings in Stortinget, even though we are talking about a very significant amount of investment – at least in the context of cultural budgets. It's a broad uproar. All except the Progress Party support the conclusions and submissions made by the Government. My confidence in the bureaucracy in the Ministry of Culture is very great in this regard. In this way, we do not ask for a perhaps more extensive proposition, which one could have thought of in a matter like this. It is – to be honest – a rather thin, small tile to sit and turn in when you are going to spend 5,327 million. kr. But, as I said, I have every reason to believe that both the staff of the Ministry of Culture and the staff of the Ministry of Finance, who have probably worked on this, have supplied in a way that makes the Storting feel secure that this is in good hands. Unfortunately, from the Right side, we probably don't think the government has handled this with equally good hands throughout the course that has been going on. What we're aiming for is what the opposition in Stortinget has experienced as a lack of inclusion and a lack of initiative to withdraw the opposition, and anchor this issue more widely politically. From the Right we have been concerned that there should have been a broader and more prepared debate in the UK than it will be when questions are raised to a Council of State, or when there are interpellation debates, which are, of course, unprepared debates. In a completely different way, we should have had a qualified debate related to the site itself on the West Railway. So we're talking about a building of considerable magnitude that's going to house the nation's aesthetic cultural heritage for perhaps hundreds of years – what I know – at least in a long time perspective. At that time we should have had a thorough debate on, for example, the matter. whether the peaced building stock on the plot should have been a premise in the architectural competition. My point of view for it is known, and that's that it shouldn't. We should have had an architectural competition where one had been freer in choosing expressions. This is mostly going on the outside. As far as the interior is concerned, I trust that we are talking about sufficient capacities to provide the building with the capacity and quality that the National Museum needs and deserves. There has also been a wide-ranging debate on the mass of buildings from which the various departments of the National Museum move, and in particular on the old constructions of the National Gallery. The right had in the longest hope that the proposal that has now been presented had contained a concrete incorporation of the old building mass. We now find that not the case. That means, realistically, that the future of the old National Gallery building is quite open in terms of use, although I hope we can all agree that the use must be seen in the context of what has been built for a long time and the place of construction in Norwegian cultural history. But this aside on this occasion. We support the fact that we can now get started with the National Museum, and I think we can congratulate each other in Norway on having a large cultural project set up properly at sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1175	Today, we make an important decision – when we decide that Norway will have a new national museum. Many have looked forward to this day. But it is not surprising that many people think it has taken too long. We should not conceal that the disagreements about location, scope and organisational model have been many and strong. We have to put that behind us. When the staging president later today beats the club in the table, a process of over 40 years is over. We can all see that the contours of a new and exciting building will characterize the old Western Railway Area. It's going to be a very exciting building. Not only will we gather three of the institution's four parts under one roof – the new national museum will also provide great opportunities to disseminate a wide range of visual art. Then we have that lives a few miles outside Oslo Centre, great hopes that the new building will improve the National Museum's foundation to be a resource for the rest of the country, in the visual arts field and in other areas. The museum's message, adopted by the Stortinget some time ago, focused on the museum's societal tasks. The social mission of the National Museum shall — and must — apply to the whole country. In that perspective too, today's decision is important. There is no doubt that there are many, large additional values in what will become the new National Museum on the Western Railway. There has to be a museum building for the whole nation – just as the opera house has created new opportunities for Oslo and Norway. A lot of money needs to be invested – we're talking about a few billion dollars before the construction is completed. In addition, large State operating grants are needed each year. There will probably be many strong opinions – both for and against such large investments. It was just supposed to be missing. But I think the added value of such investments is not just going to be measured in dollars and cents. I think it is very important to focus on the fact that such investments need to be seen in a broader and longer-term social account. I am convinced that for the nation of Norway and its inhabitants, such investments will add value to our common social and cultural capital. That value must, in my view, weigh heavily in a project like this. Like the rapporteur, I would like to congratulate all of us on the day. I look forward to the day when the cord of our new national museum will be cut by a red-green minister of culture. May it be done by the seated Minister of Culture!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1190	The national gallery is a cultural memory, in the fullest sense of the word. The building is one of the country's foremost architectural monuments and a unique and visible tale of national construction and the importance of art. Emptying this building for its contents is cultural memory vandalism. The building and the collection are one. The Progress Party supports the proposal for a solution for the National Museum that has been sketched for a long time: a new museum of contemporary art is being built on the Western Railway. That doesn't mean you have to be able to empty the old gallery. The National Gallery's special klenodium, the Munch Hall as Munch himself contributed to creating it, must be preserved and could be studied in the future, along with the art for which this museum was created. I record that there is deep disintegration in the trade unions as regards the future of the National Gallery. So it's not clear. It has been shown – both in terms of the relationship between art and the building, and in terms of the suitability of the building for the preservation of art in modern times. The National Gallery is an important part of the history of our country. There is no national gallery throughout Europe that has left a similar building to move into a modern new building. It has been focused on the development and organization of the historically important building, which is selected in the rest of the world. In Norway, too, the need to bring this part of the story into the future and take responsibility for this. The space programme of the new National Museum should be reduced if the National Gallery is maintained organisationally as a point of reference for our historical collections. The funds needed to upgrade the National Gallery should then be released, which we believe it would have been possible to do. I believe that such a solution would be cost-effective. Oslo will be a richer city if the individual parts of the National Museum come up with the characteristics of the unique building. That's how Oslo will be more interesting to live and move in. The gallery is a central architectural monument in Norway, in addition to being a central Norwegian museum building linked to the dissemination of the amazing imagery. I was happy when the Riksantikvaren announced that they had protected the National Gallery as part of the cultural heritage – both the building’s external and interior. It was a happy day. Since then you've heard a little about the future of the gallery. According to the Riksantikvaren, the National Gallery is an important monumental building with great symbolic value, to which many people have a close relationship. The building has been Norway's leading exhibition site for Norwegian art over the years. I would like to stress that the National Gallery is springing out of national flows in the 1800s and has been central to the development of Norwegian art and culture. This is now to be abandoned. Peace is a good starting point for the further management of the gallery. The gallery houses the country's largest public collection of paintings, drawings and sculptures and a particularly good collection of Norwegian national romantic painting. The project at the new National Museum has been damaging during a poor political process. The transfer of the project from Tullinløkka to the West Railway Plot took place after secret negotiations between the Municipality of Oslo and the then Minister of Culture. The government parties that are now sitting in Stortinget have put this into practice without taking Stortinget to the discussion on the matter. The national gallery is central to the history of art dissemination in Norway, and the traditions of the building such as the art arena should be continued. I want to promote the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1213	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1216	I will also address a proposal – that is important. I also think this is a joyous day – that we have come so far that we now get a decision on a new national museum, sail if I agree with many speakers before me that the process has been a mess, and that you have not had a very inclusive attitude. But when you have a very responsible and cultural opposition, you get through decisions like what you do here today. I just have some objections, and I want to present our suggestions. This is a difficult investment for Norway. This is a big building and an important building. I have to take the opportunity to say that I do not think it is a very exciting construction. When you spend as much money as this is about, I really expected you to get an architecture that really gave something back to the city and to the country, and that could be something that people could have on their postcards after visiting Norway. I don't think that the architectural competition has come forward, is something to have on the postcards, sail if it's probably a well-functioning museum from the inside. That's what I think I'm looking at. I believe that one should respect architectural competitions and will not act like the Oslo Workers' Party has performed in Oslo in terms of the architectural competition for another museum, with which I expect the hall to be familiar. My second objection is that it is a very small museum in relation to the large collections and the great cultural expressions to be managed. I think that's a problem that you'll quickly meet, at least when it's added up to such a small storage capacity. It is clear that this is going to be great both for curators who are going to make exhibitions, and at least amazing for all those who are working on managing these collections. They currently have quite awkward working conditions in the facilities we have. Building a nation is laying stone on a rock. The national gallery we have today has been an important part of the nation’s construction of Norway. With regard to both the view of urban development, the development of art institutions and the development of houses, I believe that the tradition and the history you have must be brought into a new era. You have to be able to connect old architecture with new ones. That is why I have not agreed with the Right's position that the Western Railway should be demolished. The western path must be a part of a new building no matter how you design it. Nor do I think you should leave the National Gallery and say that it is now open in the market and can almost become a shopping mall or anything because you no longer have a relationship. This is an important part of the nation’s construction of Norway — it is an important house, it is an important allocation that has been given from this room to get to this important part of the nation’s construction of Norway. It's a little bit small to think that you should be able to call yourself a cultural nation and then move from so important a building. It's a little bit small considering that a museum is something that's just in one building. It's like when you built Tate Modern in London, you should have put Tate down. I think that's a wrong way of thinking. I believe that old construction can be showrooms with everyone else. I do not believe that images should be saved, so that only images with gold frames should hang in one house, while modern art should be in another. However, the National Gallery offers unique opportunities for viewing space — both new and old art, and often in meetings between them — which can provide opportunities for Norway in the future to be a slightly more exciting art nation to visit. We have made a proposal that we support today's attitude, but we want the National Gallery to be part of the National Museum also in the future and part of the exhibition facilities to be used in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1237	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1240	Today, when the Storting deals with the cost framework of a new building at the Western Railway for the National Museum of Art, Architecture and Design, it is an important label day for a project that it has been working on since the co-organised National Museum was established on 1 July 2003. Before that time, there were several decades of work on different plans, which all had in common that they beached. In the long historical perspective, the new building on the West Railway will complete a vision that Professor Lorentz Dietrichson can measure as early as in 1887, when he, as chairman, established the status of the National Gallery for the period 1882-1887 in what was then a new building. Dietrichson, who is considered the founder of the Kunstindustrie Museum, writes in his review that he has a goal of working for the ‘Danishing of a National Museum of Art and Culture’. He founded a common museum by showing that seeing different visual expressions in context has an artistic value in itself. He thinks it creates greater respect for the art and makes the study of visual art more interesting. Furthermore, he says that bringing the various collections together into a single museum will have “a not insignificant importance for the development of art in a country”. On the way, Dietrichson's vision will find a concrete and tangible answer in the planned new building on the West Railway. I note that a Joint Committee is behind many of the substantive comments on the project and the fact that the National Museum needs better building conditions for the overall project. Furthermore, I am pleased that there is a broad majority in the Committee that supports the proposal for a decision on a cost framework of 5.3 billion. kr is calculated at price level July 2013. There is a green light for a project that will ensure very good operational conditions for the National Museum when the museum is open for use in 2019. First of all, an art-interested audience will have access to larger parts of the extensive collections in the museum. This is possible because the exhibition area in the new building is almost twice the size of the area that the museum has today. The large exhibition area allows the mouse to create a variety of options. This applies to both fixed and variable displays. Not least, the large “Alabasthallen” is a major step forward in terms of varied and varied displays, whether they have large or small formats. An important point with the new building is that the collections of the National Museum will have significantly better security conditions both in the exhibition area and in the magazine. Events both at home and abroad show that an art museum has to pay great attention to measures to secure collections against burglary, damage or other damage. Many of us would think that there is an artistic quality that visual art expressions within different genres and from different epochs can be experienced in a single building complex, along with the modern art expressions. The museum programmes the displays so that the built-in genres can of course be experienced separately. At the same time, it is well built to allow the museum to display art historical contexts in a completely different way from the traditional genre. It is now almost 130 years since Lorentz Dietrichson formulated the vision of a single national museum of visual art. With the adoption of the cost framework for the construction of the new Western runway, it is crucial to ensure that, for generations to come, the National Museum will have a good framework to share its rich collections with all of us. Recalling that the Storting will adopt this and adopt its proposal in the revised national budget, the Government will commit 60 million. kr which is located there, makes it possible to clarify the area on which the new National Museum is to be built. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1261	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1265	I probably can't imagine that I'll be a contributor to the future National Museum's economy through postcard purchases. That's where I like Trine Skei Grande. But I want to stress that the Right's starting point was not that the West Railway would necessarily be demolished. The right starting point was that the settlement should not be a premise in the architectural competition. You could imagine that architects had thought it was nice to build on the old railway and have it as part of a totality. But when it comes as a premise, the message is clear to the participating architects, that is, living something that subsides the building mass that is already there! And that's exactly what we got. We've got a giant building that subdues our old – and too many dear – railway station. The question is whether it's the right dimensions to set up against each other in relation to what we're talking about. Then to the very proposal from the Left. This is, of course, a proposal that the Right has also had, for which we have great sympathy, but which we do not think it would be right to support now, simply because we feel that the proposals we are promoting in the Storing should be binding on us even in other circumstances. The reality now is that a new building has been designed completely independent of the idea that the old building of the National Gallery should have been incorporated into the project. That means that the costs involved in complying with this Decision are a very significant amount. Exactly how big has been discussed, but at least we're talking about maybe between 1.5 and 2 billion. kr. Putting it at the top of the investments we are now talking about in Oslo, I think is a matter which in that case should be discussed more than just right above the table in the form of a proposal that the Left now promotes. That doesn't necessarily mean that we're rejecting it. This is a thought that we've carried with us for years. It is important for us that the old building of the National Gallery is put into a context that absolutely rhymes with what is proposed by the Left. But that the only option is to organise this as part of the National Museum in the future, is another stage that I experience being passed in this matter's treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1272	There have been some questions in the debate that I would like to answer. One thing is said by the representative from the left, that the size of the magazine and the size of the building may be a little bit too small. I would like to stress that in international contexts, perhaps in a European context, the new National Museum is a very large museum, and all the area calculations have been made in cooperation with the National Museum. Then the representative from the Right is worried about what to do with the old National Gallery – how it will be used in the future. I would like to remind you that it will not be possible to use the National Gallery for other purposes before early 2020, which gives us about seven years to find a good use of the National Gallery. And I feel very sure that we can do that. Then there has also been criticism of the process itself, and then I need to say the following: The government has been able to implement the planning and design of the new building on the West Railway in accordance with the regime to which the Stortinge has joined when it comes to large, state investment projects. The government started a concept selection operation that was quality-sicious – so-called KS1 – before the government decided on the concept. That happened in February 2009. Subsequently, State Building conducted an architectural contest and completed a preliminary project of external quality assurance – KS2 – before the government has now submitted the matter to the Stortinget with proposals for a binding cost framework. When it comes to the West Railway project, I would like to remind you that the size of the 2009 budget proposal was briefed that if quality assurance of the ongoing distribution work provided the basis for continuing a development project on the West Railway, architectural competition for the project would be promoted as soon as possible. Competition started in March 2009. In the annex to the proposal, there is an overview of documents, interpellations and issues in which the development project has been the theme of government-to-growth communication. In summary, the process one has had for the new National Museum has been in line with what the Storting has joined in too large a state investment project.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1287	Once you have had the majority power long enough, you start to develop a special view of what is right with regard to the decision-making round. Then it is only a matter of having the decisions taken after the book. Having inclusive processes, and actually including the opposition, is not included in the governance and decision book. It's true that this has been discussed many times here in the hall, but never at the government's initiative. It has always been brought up, as the Council of State explained, because we have raised it in interviews and questions – so that's what they say. The second point is that there is a price tag attached to the refurbishment of the national gallery that has raised important questions. The representative, Olemic Thommess, has also asked important questions about this, so today you refuse to vote for it because you accept something that you have previously asked questions in debates, I think is a little strange argument. It is only a matter of a principle that this building should be part of the National Museum — and as part of the exhibition facilities — also in the future. The form – the way this is done, the way in which it needs to be repaired – and the criteria for doing so, we have not taken a decision. But I think it has been very reassuring for the process that today we have a decision that the National Gallery should be part of the new National Museum. I also think it would have been exciting cultural policy to have the opportunity to show art in both a new and an old room. It is not that the National Gallery does not act as an exhibition venue today. There are relatively many who have visited the Munch exhibition in the last few days, and I think they have the feeling of being at a working gallery. We have to look at it as part of the national building blocks we're going to take care of. For me, this is about the same thing as moving the big or the castle to a new location and then just adding the old wreck, without any idea what to do with them. I believe that the National Gallery has a role as a national building block, and we can't afford that. We actually have to have a plan for how we're going to do this further. I believe that today we should have said that it must be part of the new National Museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1298	Maybe I only have one minute?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1303	No, as the rapporteur, the representative has the right to speak as many times as he wants, and he gets 3 minutes each time – without any call in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1306	By no means! I have also not intended to wear the Storting to dry this for too long. I just have a note to make to the Council of State's comment on the process. No, we have nothing to postulate on the formal process of state investment projects. But there is, as the representative Skei Grande was inside, a point that when the plot was chosen, it happened as a result of a negotiation between Mr. Lae and Giske in an enclosed room. There was never a prepared case for Stortinget that invited a thorough debate on the issue at the time – about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' planned construction. Since then, the premises have changed, but at the time it was part of this – also the extent of a rescue or a possible ‘rescue’ of the buildings that lie there. There has never been a well-discussed issue, it has never been dealt with properly, and the Stortinget has never been invited to a debate on this. Besides being an irritating moment for Stortinget, this is unfortunately also the reason we have had an architectural competition that I think has had worse framework conditions than it could have had if we had had a proper review of this. Then I fully agree with the comments made by the representative Skei Grande about the old building of the National Gallery. It is absolutely correct that I have also asked questions about the cost framework we are talking about. But whether we choose one or the other option, we talk about very significant amounts. This means that you need to have a different and more thorough input into that question than it is possible to get into the Storting today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1319	The next speaker is the Council of State Hadia Tajik, who, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, has the opportunity to speak several times.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1322	It has been said from this pulpit that one has not involved Stortinget because the government has been busy doing things after the book. I'm not going to try to do things out of the book. I am very sure that the criticism will be much stronger in such a situation. It has also been said that the information you have received on the new National Museum has not been at the initiative of the government. That is not true, this would have been settled in budgetary proposals on several occasions. But I would like to praise the interest that the opposition has also shown on different occasions, and the commitment they have shown to the new National Museum in different areas. So I also respect the need for a party political marking on these questions. But I'm glad that there's such a big uprising about what's an important art and culture building in Norway. This will provide great possibilities for the collections we have today, and for the collections we will have. I think there are many who appreciate the fact that we have such a wide upsurge in such a large and important construction in Norwegian context.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1333	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1347	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1354	The Family and Culture Committee has examined document 8:50 S for 2012–2013 on – as the president said – a national referendum in the context of the application to organise the OL and Paralympics in Oslo in 2022. The proposers indicate that the Municipality of Oslo has adopted a local referendum to organise the Olympic Games in Oslo in 2022 in connection with the 2013 Grand Prix. The proposers believe that a broad popular anchoring is of great importance for a tidy and democratic process, which ensures such an arrangement the necessary legitimacy of the population. The proposers further indicate that the country's taxpayers will be at risk by means of the necessary State guarantee and that, according to the proposers, a state guarantee should be established by means of a referendum. The majority of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture recommends that the proposal be rejected. There have been only two referendums in Norway in recent times. There was a 1972 referendum on Norway's membership of the European Community. There was also a referendum in 1994 on Norway's membership of the European Union. Since referendums have no place in the Norwegian Constitution, these referenda have been considered advisory. The majority therefore indicates that the Stortinget, as the people's elected representatives, has a right and a duty to make decisions on behalf of the Norwegian people. In a representative democracy such as Norway, it is up to the elected representatives to weigh different interests and make decisions on behalf of the people. The size is set to manage a decision-making authority in which the parties and each representative are held accountable by election. So it's a right we have as elected representatives, and it's a duty we have as elected representatives of the people. On that basis, as I said, the majority of the Committee opposes the proposal. That being said, it is of course important for such a resolution as the proposal deals with to facilitate good processes that guarantee legitimacy for the decisions taken, which in all other matters we deal with in the process of mass destruction and government. I then assume that the proposers and the minority will explain their views and refer to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1373	Let me first say that I am pleased that there is a joint committee that agrees with the proposers that any OL and Paralympics in Oslo must have the necessary legitimacy in the population in order to be able to implement, as well as that a clean and democratic process is important both in the bodies of sport and elsewhere, and that a possible decision on state guarantee should be enshrined at a broad national level. That is the most important element of the draft representative we have proposed, that it should be a national referendum. When you come specifically to the proposal, the other parties in this Chamber do not want to do so. Should be given a state guarantee of about 30 billion. kr, as it has been obtained in the media, it is one of the largest guarantees ever given and one of the largest projects for which a guarantee will ever be given. We are in favour of democracy, and a more direct democracy than a referendum cannot be found. It is quite right that you have had a tradition in Norway for not having a referendum. You've had it twice, and it's proven to have worked very well. It's quite possible to do that this time, and that's probably one of the arguments that Oslo will hold this referendum. A more legitimacy in the population than a referendum in the whole country can hardly be found, so I'm amazed that the majority does not want to go into it. We also believe that open and inclusive processes are important. A few days ago, the media revealed that the IOC has created a 7000-page document that is not open. There's only a few who have seen it, it's a requirement specification to be able to arrange an OL. This is the basis on which decisions are to be made, including: a document that the elected representatives will not see. I'm not in doubt that it's probably going to be a majority in Oslo to arrange an O.L., but it's the whole country that's going to be in and pay the bill. Then it could certainly have been in place to ask the whole country. There are also several municipalities around Oslo that are going to be affected by this, and they are also not given the opportunity to express their opinion. Another positive effect you have had from referendums in the past is that the turnout has been very high. That would also have been possible this time if you wanted a direct democracy. I think there are many who are engaged in economics and, not least, in sport, who could imagine having a referendum, all the time that under the sitting government has been chasing down funds to build sports facilities, increasing sharply. The sport is pushed back on the track in terms of economics, and it has happened during this government. Nevertheless, the Minister of Culture has gradually begun to approach sport very much by providing such a state guarantee. It is literally seen that she is embraced more closely and more closely by the Norwegian Sports Association and those who want to arrange the Olympics. That's an interesting observation. I wish that sport had done this in more open, democratic processes and dare to take the initiative for a national referendum. At the same time, the enormous amount to be allocated is, if necessary, and – as far as I am aware – must be taken into account within the financial framework and the rules of action with which they operate. This means that there is a need to set priorities in other areas. Where you put your priorities down, I don't know. It can be in health, it can be in cancer treatment, it can be in transport, it can be that municipalities get less money. There are issues that I think would have been important in the public debate on OL, which is already quite large, and I would have had no problem if it became an important part of the election campaign in the context of the vote. The Progress Party is too transparent, we are too democratic, and we are also in favour of a referendum. On that basis, I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1392	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1395	The debate on the OL in Oslo 2022 creates a broad debate and a great commitment across the country, not least in my own country, Troms. Let me also add that we are many who are actively participating in this debate on whether or not to organise an OL in Oslo. However, what this matter is about today is whether there should be a national referendum on the matter. It's not a question of for or against the Olympics in Oslo. In Oslo, we see that the City Council will organise a so-called local referendum at the same time as the elections on 9 September. I would like to stress that such a referendum is only a local poll among the citizens of Oslo. It must therefore not be given more weight than this in the future debate. Nor is it the case that this vote – or the poll, which I would like to stress is – will be decisive for this debate. It is with this understanding at the bottom that the majority in this case refers to the Storting, as the people's elected representatives, who have a right and duty to make decisions on behalf of the Norwegian people. It will also be in this case. In a representative democracy such as Norway, it is up to the elected representatives to weigh different interests and to make decisions on behalf of the people. There is little tradition of holding national referendums in Norway, and the majority show that the Stortinget is set to manage decision-making powers in which the parties and each representative are held accountable through elections. There is a broad tradition in Norway that the Storting does not waive this responsibility. In recent times, referendums have been held only twice in Norway and both times on whether Norway would become a member of the EC or the EU. This meant whether or not the nation should give up sovereignty. These are issues that differ significantly from the question of State guarantee for the Olympics and the Paralympics. As you know, the people have voted no both times. The question of Norway as the organiser of an OL in Oslo 2022 is a question that will be a hot political topic in the future. Such a costly project is a comprehensive one with a strong commitment. This is not least about how much money Norway as a nation is willing to spend on infrastructure development in the central Oslo area. I am going to take an active part in this debate, and I am extremely sceptical about this matter, along with many others both in this Chamber and in the rest of the country. I expect that very many of the representatives in the Chamber will participate in this debate in the future. The centre party has also stated in the past that we are skeptical about this major infrastructure development that is being addressed here in Oslo, in an area that is under pressure and has very strong developments in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1416	The Storting Family and Culture Committee recommends that the government not facilitate the holding of a national referendum on attendance and guarantees for any Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2022. The entire Committee, except for the Progress Party's representatives, is behind this recommendation. I think it's a wise recommendation, and I'm also raising the committee's foundation. It's, as has been said several times from this pulpit, a little tradition of keeping peoples' voices in Norway. In recent times, we've only done it twice before. Both times it has been in connection with the EC or the EU. I believe that most people are with me in that the issue of Norway becoming a member of the EC or the EU is a matter of very different meaning and consistency than the question of whether a state guarantee should be given and a contribution to a sporting event, even if it should be an OL. As the committee writes in its position, it is in a representative democracy, like ours, so that the people choose their representatives to the Storing to make decisions on behalf of the people. Therefore, it is also the task of the Storting to weigh the various concerns up against each other, and to decide whether to give a guarantee and an incentive to arrange Olympic and Paralympic games in 2022. In my opinion, putting such a case out to public opinion would be to take from the Storting authority in a very important case of promise. There is little doubt that an OL will be precious also for the state. I therefore agree with the proposers that in 2022 any OL must have legitimacy and a broad anchor in both sport and the people, and it can be ensured through the democratic processes already established in sport and otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1427	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1441	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1448	The first paragraph of Section 18 of the Marketing Act contains a provision prohibiting purchase-related competitions and this provision is problematically opposed to the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive. The Committee notes that the Government recommends the repeal of this provision, which strengthens both the freedom of nutrition and the freedom of agreement, which the entire Committee unanimously supports. However, it is not free to do so – it is not risk-free to launch purchase-related competitions, although the general prohibition will now be lifted. It is important to be aware that the other provisions of the Marketing Act may apply and that the Consumer Ombudsman can assess whether concrete competitions are unfair or misleading, in particular where competitions are aimed at children. Purchasing competitions are particularly vulnerable because some perceive competitions as misleading or unfair. It is therefore important to conduct competitions neatly, safely and with good information. The Lottery Act may also apply if prices are imposed on goods to finance competition. It is also important to be aware that procedures and technical solutions may conflict with patents. In this area, there is a significant amount of private patents of varying quality and level of protection. The Consumer Ombudsman is responsible for ensuring compliance with the rules of the Marketing Act and for questions of how the Consumer Ombudsman will deal with the discord between the decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the text of the Marketing Act, the Ombudsman responds: «The supervision of supply-related competitions will still not be within the consumer ombudsman's priority supervisory tasks, even if the ministry has now indicated that the prohibition is being maintained pending review of the Directive.» I believe that it cannot be excluded, however, that the Consumer Ombudsman will intervene with specific campaigns, in particular with regard to: visibility of the campaign, the competitive situation in the market and the target audience. It is obvious that the Consumer Ombudsman should intervene in the case of manifestly misleading, or otherwise unreasonable, campaigns of nature, in the interests of the consumer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1468	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 7 and 8 are treated together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1495	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1504	Today, in the Grand Duchy, we are going to deal with two important issues, both of which contain proposals for amendments to the Children’s Act. One proposal concerns the child’s perspective in parental proceedings. The second proposal is a law that deals with determining both fatherhood and fun. Both legislative proposals are important to strengthen the legal situation of children. In the case of parental rights, the purpose of the proposals is to strengthen the legal certainty and participation of children in cases where parents who do not live together disagree that the case must be brought before the Court. It is also about giving children better protection from violence or sexual assault. The Committee supports strengthening the child perspective in parental justice and believes that the proposals for change presented are an important step towards increasing the protection of vulnerable children in such cases. The Committee is concerned that one listens to the children in such cases. The Committee also agrees that children under the age of seven should be heard. They haven't been able to do that so far. It is therefore the best of the child, and not the wishes of his or her parents, which are essential to determining whether he or she is associated with him or her. If there is doubt as to the child’s safety, consideration for the child must always come first. Against the child’s will, or where there is a risk of violence or sexual assault, there shall be no provision for association, nor for supervision. A large majority of the Committee considers that by allowing the child’s right to and the need for association to decide whether it should take place, it will be easier to protect against violence and abuse. The Committee also supports the exemption of child protection staff from the obligation of professional secrecy when they give a witness statement in parental proceedings under the Children’s Act. It is essential that the right now be given the opportunity to take provisional decisions in cases where there is a risk of violence or a risk of harm to the child. It is such that it will be a heavy burden to be charged with violence and/or sexual assault if one is innocent. However, such abuses are so harmful to children that on suspicion of this, government parties believe that the child is entitled to immediate protection. Here, then, the government parties believe that the child has to weigh more heavily, but we are, of course, also very concerned about following up the legal certainty of everyone involved. The other matter concerns the determination of fatherhood and fun. Here the Committee states that the best interests of the child and the right of the child to know their biological origin are the main concerns. Since 1 January 2006, it has been such that danger can be determined by a unilateral declaration by a man registered at the same address as his mother. It may not be such that an address or a unilateral statement of this one parent shall be the governing body in such cases. The Committee considers it important that both mother and father agree that hazard should be identified by recognition. A large majority of the committee supports the government's decision to maintain the pater est rule. The majority believe that it ensures a large group of children a safe social and legal framework from the start of life, that the legislation works well, and that a lifting will lead to unnecessary bureaucracy. The Committee believes that today we have a law that makes it easy to change hazards, and therefore supports a requirement for DNA testing in such a change. In this context, I also refer to the agreement of the Committee on the proposal that the case be referred to the Court for a ruling if a child over the age of 18 does not agree to change the hazard. There is a great deal of consensus in the Committee on these legislative changes. One point on which there is disagreement is the time-limits for the referral of change cases on hazard. In this respect, government parties believe that the consideration of stability over time for the child is essential for the reintroduction of the deadline. However, it is important for us that no time limit is proposed for children, so that they can always sue for a change of fatherhood. The Committee considers it important to impose strict requirements for the registration of motherhood and hazard. It must be a public obligation to determine fatherhood and maternity when this is not established at birth and when the child is born abroad but lives in Norway together with one of the parents. The Committee as a whole supports new rules that tighten legislation in view of parents who have used surrogati and the determination of fun in these matters. I would like to make it clear that in this case we have not entered the surrogacy issue itself. It should be a right for all children to know their biological origin, but everything cannot be regulated. We must not forget the important responsibility of parents to tell their children how they have become and what biological relationship they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1543	I must first of all be allowed to state that it is good that the government makes these proposals, first and foremost because it gives children a greater opportunity to be on the path of making important decisions for their lives. When we have discussed who the child is going to live with, and also the issue of community rights, we have been thinking about it for too long – as we see in Norwegian courts as well – on the basis of a view of justice. We've assessed Mom and Dad's involvement in this, and we've thought of Mom and Dad as participants in the justice assessment. The proposals that come now, at my discretion, help to reinforce what must be the bearer's attitude in these matters, that when you think about justice here, it must be directed towards the child and the best of the child – how the child has it, how the child will get it. In parental responsibility, there are many ways not only rights and obligations, but also a responsibility to seek to avoid too much conflict around the children. It's my hope that the process that is now around these matters, and the changes that come here, can help us get a process that doesn't wear out the children, but that makes it the best result for the children. So to the children who are subjected to violence, assault and threats, and are witnesses to violence in close relationships. In this way, the work of the Grand Duchy in this case becomes an incredibly important basis for the courts and a source of justice to be used by the courts. I would like to use my intervention to encourage the courts to use this debate in their legal application and to use what the Committee has written in its position, because it is an unusually important post-work related to the issues in which to decide in particular the issue of association – and association with supervision as well. For too long we have had a legal situation in this field where the courts must be said to have been somewhat deterred from refusing association. It is my hope that the post-work that is now being done, and the clarification that comes in the setting, clearly show which considerations to take, and what threshold to operate on in order to refuse association. For too long, in terms of abuse and violence against young people, we have been thinking about criminal law. We will continue to do that, but I think that the job that the Committee has done – and also the government, in advance – now contributes to the raising of these issues more than in the past, because there are many of the main decisions about the child's well-being taken. Not to undermine criminal law, but we know that to a very small extent, often, it solves any problems, whether for those who might commit an assault, or for those who are subjected to it. We're totally dependent on the civil track. In that way I think this is good. We say very clearly that you lower the threshold for e.g. to be able to refuse association when there are allegations of assault or threats, and it is well-founded, at my discretion, to be subjected to this. Therefore, I believe that in much of what is about the child's well-being and the child's ability to cope in the future, we depend entirely on the fact that the courts are more cautious in admitting association in those cases where one sees that there have been allegations and situations that may justify something wrong with the child's well-being. For a long time we've talked about that it's the one who's accused of assault, which is protected by the principle of doubt, that there's any doubt in the matter, and we'll then evaluate it criminally, it's like the one who's claimed to be an infringer will benefit. There has been a situation that has infected something on the civil matters. I believe from the work done by the government here, and the attitude that comes – I hope this debate will also show it – that when it comes to assessing the consequences of civil law, all doubts will benefit the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1560	I want to start where the case rapporteur concluded: there is a lot of agreement in these two matters that we are dealing with here. That's very good, because we're talking about important things – strengthening the child's perspective on parental justice, and not least on children to be protected from violence and abuse. Let it be clear that the Progress Party is as concerned as the government to protect children from violence and abuse. It is important to take into account and listen to the children. The best interests of the child and the needs of the child must be taken into account. Children are often used in conflicts. This is why prevention is so important. Family protection needs to be strengthened, and that may be some of the reasons for reducing the conflict – for the benefit of the child and for the benefit of the family. The progress party is very happy that the government has this with the help of the child. Children shall be listened to, and they shall be heard. Children shall not have to decide and choose in conflict. We know very often that children are loyal to both sides, and the loyalty of their parents is strong. So it's about getting together. There's a little disagreement between the government parties and the majority. It is worrying when, in the last few days – we have known for a long time, but in the last few days it has appeared in the media – we have read about the huge increase in conflicts that are going on in the courts. Nearly 3,000 couples fight each year in the children’s court. Here we could be able to prevent if we had different rules. We see that Father is now much more seeking more association. We see that things become conflicty when the cases come to the courtroom, and that is very harmful to the children. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that it could have been anti-conflict if there had been an automatic sharing of care in the event of a break-up, if there had been a consensus that the parents had been equal. A lot of parents agree and have private solutions today, but for those in conflict, this could be anti-conflict. Then there is something in the first case, which concerns ‘provisional decision’. Let it be clear: the party of progress is equally concerned that children who are subjected to violence and abuse must be protected and have rights. But what the government is proposing now is that there should be no judgment in the matter. And that's the way in this legal system and in the country we live in, that one is innocent until the opposite is proven. Several have also been sceptical about what the government is now introducing in the event of suspicion of violence or abuse. We know that it can be abused by one party by saying that here there is a suspicion of violence and abuse – without this being investigated and without one having a verdict. That is why the Progress Party does not support it. We want to clarify as quickly as possible whether there has been an infringement and violence, and that anyone who has been subjected to it should avoid both care and association with the party that has done so. In a case that the Judicial Committee had last week on violence in close relations, it became clear that there are also persons or parents today who are convicted of assault and violence against their children, who have made a judgment for this, and who, when they get out, still have the opportunity to have association and care for their children. The Progress Party is disappointed that the government parties have not supported the proposal that at least we ensure that those who have already been convicted today do not have relations with their children. So to the matter of fatherhood and fun. It's also a very important thing. When I started to read the proposition from the government, I was absolutely sure that the government was going to cancel the pater est rule. So the government hasn't done that, which the Progress Party thinks is disappointing. It is important for all children to know their parents. We know, too often, that many children experience living with someone who is not the right parent. We also know that many mothers deliberately lie about fatherhood. There may be different reasons for that, but it's not a good experience for the children who feel that the one they've thought was the father every year, it wasn't. It's important to change these rules. That is why the proposals that the Progress Party has put forward in this matter are important. We will also inform you that we are going to support proposal No. 2 from the Left, which they have advanced in case No. 7 but not proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox The government also tightens the deadlines for making changes. They say that the stability of the children must be taken into account. Nor does it support the Progress Party. I am thus addressing the proposals we have made in these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1592	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1595	The principle of the best of the child and the child's right to know its biological origin must be the most important when we are debating today the changes in the child law. Right-wing think it is right that mother and father should agree to determine the danger of recognition. We also want to keep the Father Est rule, as the Fathers' Committee suggested. This rule has deep roots in Norwegian society and has had general support here in the country over generations. It ensures a large group of children safe, social and legal frameworks from the start of life. This code works well. At the same time, the right supports the need for DNA analysis before a decision can be made to change a hazard. Children's right to know their biological origin is very important. It underlines Norwegian law, the European Convention on Human Rights and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is then right to have strict requirements for the registration of motherhood and fatherhood. The right supports the public's obligation to determine danger and parenthood when it is not established at birth. This also applies when the child is born abroad but lives in Norway with one of the parents. Right takes the child's right to know his biological origin seriously. Too many children have an unknown father, and the mother’s obligation to give the name of a granddaddy is important to the child. We have therefore once again asked the government to assess whether there should be a criminal consequence by deliberately failing to comply with the obligation to provide information on pediatrics. It is important to have a better view of the child’s parents. Children shall be protected from violence and abuse. As far as possible, we must take into account and listen to the children when parents disagree. The best interests of the child and the needs of the child must also be taken into account in parental proceedings. At the same time, we must ensure legal certainty for all parties involved. If parental rights are to be effectively prevented, family protection must be strengthened, as the Right has also proposed in the Stortinget. The law must be based on equal treatment and equivalence between parents. This applies regardless of gender, sexual orientation, ethnic background and functionality. It is right to listen to the children, and that children under the age of seven should also be informed before the matter is decided. At the same time, it is important that the child’s opinion be weighted according to age and maturity. The right would stress that the child has a right – but no obligation – to express himself. Children shall not have to experience that they must choose between their parents or take a decision in the conflict of their parents. It is not the child’s responsibility to resolve the conflict or to choose the version of the child’s mother and father. The loyalty of a child is often strong and a child should not be held responsible in a conflict between parents. It is right to give priority to the best interests of the child when deciding whether to associate with him or her. The association arrangements must be organised in accordance with the needs of the child and adapted to the everyday life of the child. The child’s rights and protection must prevail if there is doubt about the child’s safety. Therefore, it is right to exempt child protection employees from the obligation of professional secrecy in order to testify to the courts in cases of parental rights under the Children’s Act. We have to do what we can to protect children from violence and abuse. Nevertheless, it is problematic that the courts should now refuse to reject cases where one parent accuses the other of sexual assault or violence, even if the courts consider them to be groundless. A number of courts have stated that legislative changes are unnecessary since the courts already take provisional decisions when there is a real risk of violence or abuse. On the right, the government considers that a change in the law is needed in order to abolish parental rights in which father or mother is convicted of serious abuses against their own children, which have been raised by the Right in the course of the handling of the notification of rape in close relations. The right is satisfied with the large consensus in these major matters, and we believe it is an important signal The Storting sends out today to all those affected by these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1621	I am pleased that we have a child minister who is so clear that the best of the children is to be the continuous mantra – as well as in today's submitted propositions. Here we have a matter for consideration to strengthen the child’s perspective by hearing the children’s opinion, and that vulnerable children should be given better protection in matters where parents disagree on parental responsibility, residence and association. The Minister for Children spoke to NTB: "We don't hear well enough what the children themselves are saying. Today, we protect children too badly, and we often forget them completely in parental matters." And now we're doing something about it. We read these days in the newspapers about frustrated parents who feel that they have not received the help they have wanted in child distribution matters. In these cases, there is little doubt that the child will soon become the victim. Fortunately, most cases do not end up in a court of law, but when they do, it is very important to have a law that strengthens children’s legal certainty and participation. For SV, an essential point is that the children themselves, including those under seven years of age, are to be heard – not only in terms of residence, but to be able to express their opinion on all relevant issues in the matters of cohabitation. Having no independent opinion is also a right child should have. Information to the child both in advance and after the case is an important right. Unfortunately, it is not that it will always be best for children to have relations with both their parents, and this must be crucial in social matters. In the event of suspicion of violence or abuse, a resident or cohabitation parent shall be able to obtain rapid clarification from the Court of Justice. A good instrument here is the proposal to impose on the right to take a preliminary decision on parental responsibility, residence or association when there is a risk of the child being subjected to violence or sexual assault and one of the parties so requires. I think it must definitely be that the children's right to protection against physical or mental danger and harm must weigh more heavily than the adult's right to companionship. It is obvious that the child must be subject to immediate protection. That the Progress Party does not believe that the legislation should be drafted in such a way that as far as possible one operates on the safe side on behalf of the child, I find it mildly remarkable. A recurring theme in the committee is how family protection can be a good enough service, and we have heard that from the pulpit here today. There is broad consensus that family protection has a high potential to prevent and reduce conflicts for the benefit of children and families. In the last few days, we have seen headlines that show that the benefits of the service vary greatly. This should be an important offer that provides families with a good low threshold offer at the specialist level — they can be used preventively, such as pre-emptive courses, etc., and dampening conflicts once they have arisen. But it seems that efforts can be made to make the offer better, and the government is constantly repeating that work is needed to make family protection the best possible. One of the discussion themes is the number of compulsory hours of mediation to be held at family offices in the event of a breakup. In any case, it must be essential to provide adequate information and to encourage the possibility of having up to seven hours of mediation in matters where it seems appropriate and best for the child. SV is pleased that in recent years the Ministry has increased its priority of family protection with high-conflict families. In any case, the child’s best interests are to be taken into account. The Progress Party once again proposes that both parents should have equal care and companionship in the event of a breakup. Although, in many cases, there will be an excellent solution of shared care, the starting point must always be that the best care of children is to be taken into account. It doesn't matter whether it's a baby or a teenager you should care for, it doesn't matter which travel distance you have for your parents. It doesn't matter what the children want. When the Progress Party today argues that shared care could be counterproductive in the event of a breakup, it is not primarily the child’s best that is at the centre. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on changes in the Children's Act on Paternity and Fun as well, which is a follow-up to the NOU 2009: 5, Paternity and Other Fun. With the development of family patterns today, it makes sense to make changes to the law. At the same time, it is pointed out that there is not everything that can be regulated, and that parents have a great responsibility to tell their children how they have become. An important principle underpinning the legislative proposal is the stability and predictability of the child, which is of particular importance to SV and which is reflected in the child’s best interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1645	I will first comment on what concerns parental justice, and then move on to the changes that affect fatherhood and fun. First of all, I would like to give the Ministry credit for changing the concept by introducing the term ‘parent’ rather than ‘child-sharing’. Otherwise, it is gratifying that there is broad political support for the protection of children from violence and abuse. Here it is said very wisely in the debate that I am not going to repeat – I refer in particular to the posts of the representative Storberget, which I thought were very good and comprehensive. There is also reason to make it clear that what we are adopting today does not mean that a trump card is being handed out by bitter and aggressive parents' rights, where the changes in the laws involve an automatic means of excluding accusations of violence or danger of harm, rather preliminary decisions on this. The Court of First Instance must and must take a decision on association after a concrete assessment of the individual case, with the clear leadership and child perspective on which we have based. It is also commendable that the Council of State shows such a great commitment to these matters, but the more amazing – I repeat wonderfully – that the government is building up family protection and its prevention activities, while the Council of State is talking about children suffering from conflicts and care failure to be heard every day. So to the deadlines for changing the parents' or third party's access to file a case on change in danger: I will address two essential aspects of this proposal. Firstly, the government has not been able to justify the fact that today's law is actually to the detriment of children. The Ministry acknowledges that there is ‘restricted knowledge’ about how time-limits have been removed. It then refers to a list of cases the first year after the amendment, where two thirds of the cases confirmed the established legal parent. Whether this is stated in the proposition: ‘The Ministry assumes that for some of these children it will be burdensome for their biological father to bring an action before the court for the release of the father.’ Yeah, that's an assumption you can agree with. But what conclusion is one going to draw from it? It is a very simplified conclusion if, on a general basis, it is concluded that all of these matters were unnecessary, should not have been raised, or should not have been at the best of the child, in the short or long term. And what about all the other things, that gave another outcome? Although the truth for many, both adults and children, will often be liberating and positive over time, it is not possible on a general basis to say what is best for the child in the individual case, as the government seems to assume. The forensic institute is probably one of the environments that has real experience and insight in this area, and I also refer to their hearing opinion at this point. The essence here is that the state assumes a right to limit the space of action of individuals and families in terms of the most profound and fundamental aspects of human life. Many children will lose the possibility of key clarifications that could provide the basis for more stability and security. So to the second central relationship of this proposal, because in the absence of justification for how the proposal is best for children, the government cites some fundamental considerations that are quite perceptive. The Government states in the justification for the implementation of deadlines the intention and the decision as a central basis for parenthood, which in many cases should obviously trump biology. As the minority have explained in the submission, it is not appropriate to justify such an approach in the exemptions that child legislation already has on this point. Furthermore, it seems that the reasoning in the proposition is based on a lack of understanding of what the adoption institution is. I'll show you the other way around. One of the many control questions for the government is: when a decision is now to be the basis of a hazard, what about a lack of decision in the form of an unplanned hazard? There are several of us who have experience with it, to say it like that. Is that supposed to affect the commitment that comes with the danger? The proposition describes different ways of life and situations in which another man takes on a fatherhood, among other things. where during pregnancy a woman meets. Then there is reason to ask: What kind of signals are sent to man’s responsibility for his own children, and on what basis is the danger based? Finally, I mention that the Christian People's Party is voting against Section 6 and new Section 6(a) of the cancellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1674	I have no private experience to offer. However, I reserve the right to take the floor and have opinions in the matter. The issue is to strengthen the child's perspective on parental rights, which we see in the Left's view is very positive. We support the proposals that are about listening to the children. But I also think we should think a little further, and that is why we have tabled two proposals here today, which I have to justify for the short time I have received. Our starting point is this: there are 20,000 life crimes that go to mediation every year. Nearly one-fifth of the child-distribution cases involve the judiciary, i.e. at least 3000 to 4000 children each year experience disagreement between parents about the distribution of children. These are pretty big and pretty serious numbers. It is not always that the best of children can be cared for by parents. Parents in conflict are not always the best people to talk to children about. We also believe that children are often affected where there is really a conflict about economics. In high-conflict cases, there is very often an economic conflict. Family protection offices are important; they should be strengthened. But neither do they represent children in any way, and they have very diverse competences both within the economy and in law. That is why, today, we are proposing that someone should represent the children in the matters where the conflicts are properly fed, so that the children are heard more, and that children in conflict loyalty, as they also feel, are not forced to express their sympathy or antipathies. Neither are children in major conflicts able to do their own good, because they sometimes try to benefit those who are in conflict. The proposal we have put forward today, which we hope others will support – we were very happy when we heard that the Progress Party will support it – we have formulated quite a bit, in the hope that we will start working on a system where either an assistant lawyer or people who are related to the family can be appointed as representatives of the children and their interests. I think that's incredibly important. In a breakup, there's a lot of focus on adults. Adults are well represented by lawyers and all they can hire, while children really don't have anyone to care for their interests in conflicts. The second proposal may be a little bit more radical, but I think it's time to review the marriage law at one point in particular to make this more conflict-absorbing. Conflicts are very often rooted in economics and distribution. It must be a goal to have a marriage law that cleans up all conflicts that are not related to children. Many consensual residents and others have accumulated wealth before marriage and before they have children, and many of these are complicated to share. I have been in contact with a lawyer who said that an accountant would never have approved an AS with as much uncertainty as most marriages. I think that's an interesting angle. I think the conflict about economic distribution characterizes the cooperation on the children for a long time, and I think that is very unfortunate. We know that there is freedom of contract through the marriage pact today, but it is not used enough. A lot of people don't think it's particularly nice in a marriage you think works well with someone you're happy with, asking if you should sit down and make a deal. If it had been mandatory, then everyone had to do it, we think it would have been very conflict-absorbing. Such an agreement could, for example: contain a provision on the assets accumulated before life and the regulation of the assets accumulated during life. Here one may have a free contract, but one is forced to take that debate in good days instead of having to take it in the evil. I think it makes sense to consider such an arrangement. I think it would be anti-conflict. Many children would have thanked us for such a scheme – therefore that proposal. I'm taking up our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1696	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1699	Let me start by saying that I am very pleased, on behalf of many vulnerable children in Norway, with the broad support that comes in the Stortingen to the main actions that we are proposing here today. It promises good for the future. Let me also say that I am pleased that it has been noticed that we are now using the term ‘parents’ rather than talking about child distribution matters, because it is parental justice that is the matter. The starting point is that we now know so much about how children are influenced by living with violence, sexual assault, abuse and neglect. We know something about brain development, physical and mental health for these children, we know that they are more often ill, their health is often affected by a whole life, we know something about concentration, schooling, trust in other people and self-esteem. It's very serious for children to grow up in homes that are characterized by this form of gross care failure – or human rights violations, if we want to. It is all the worst when one caregiver is insecure and the other caregiver is dangerous, or where sexual abuse is covered over and minimized, and the child is not protected but forced to adapt. It is also the case, as the representative Storberget pointed out, that the Stortinget has said – all except the Advance Party – that all doubts should benefit the child. I am incorruptiblely happy about that. The size – all except the Progress Party – has also previously stated that we should not base the criminal law's evidence on child protection issues. It is better for ten culprits to go free than for one innocent to be convicted, but it is not better for one child to be subjected to abuse and gross sexual assault than for one adult to be unlawfully cut off from association. We cannot base the presumption of innocence on these matters. If we demand a conviction to protect children in Norway from violence and sexual assault, we will not protect children in Norway. And Right: Why does the Right Advance Party support the question that is so serious to these children? I don't understand that, and I hope the Right Representative can clarify that. But besides that, I am very pleased that the large and broad majority in this Chamber support the government in the main actions that we are doing today through the proposition that is about the child perspective of parental rights. I very much welcome the support that children should be able to have their own representative, that the public should finance thorough expert investigations, and that it should not be the responsibility of their parents based on their economy, and that children under the age of seven should also be consulted on matters of association and main care. It's about respect and security for children, and it's about the best possible information on the matter, so we can make the right decisions. Today, most children are asked the main question when it comes to where to look after the child. Far fewer people are asked about association, even when it is clear that there has been violence and sexual abuse inside the picture. Children under the age of seven are almost never asked. However, children shall have no obligation to comment, and they shall not determine the outcome of these matters. I am also pleased with the broad support – once again all except the Progress Party – to raise the threshold for when we are going to make use of the supervision as well. These are serious issues for the health, development and safety of children in Norway. Who is a father or a mother is fundamental to our understanding of our own identity – and now I come into the second proposition, which we then discuss combined with the first. Today, when we're going to discuss what kind of rules we need to have to establish parenthood, we need to find a proper balance between individual considerations and general rules. Equally important is finding the right balance between biology and social parenting. In its investigation, the Committee of Wise Men stressed the need to care for the interests and needs of children, regardless of how the child has been born, and pointed out that children have a fundamental need for care and protection and a stable and lasting relationship with their families. I believe that in our proposals we have made adjustments that take good care of the child's best interests. This applies, inter alia, to: the continuation of the pater est rule, the obligation of the public to clarify fun in the same way as danger and to reintroduce time limits in order to bring an action for a change in hazard. Once again, the children's best and children's need for safety and stability is crucial for our government; it's not millimeter justice for parents. We sometimes have to do that balancing, searing if what's for the parent's best, also often for the child's best.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1725	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1728	I am very happy that we also have a child minister who takes children seriously, and I am 100 pst. ensuring that the commitment she has for children is real. A few years ago, a proposal in the Chamber that parents who have already been convicted of abuse and violence against their children should lose care. TV 2 had a look a few years ago where they showed a desperate mother who had to send her child to a father who was convicted of abuse and violence against her child. The council says she's thinking about the best of children and the safety of children. My question to the Council of State is why the Council of State and the Government cannot consider depriving parents of their rights when committing serious abuses against children, and one is convicted of it. Why won't they start at that end?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1737	Let me start by thanking you for your recognition. It's a deep commitment, and it's based on the knowledge we have about how serious it is for children to be exposed to this. We cannot gamble with children's health and development in the way we have unfortunately done before, in part of these matters. So to the question, we're afraid that by raising the threshold as high as the Progress Party here is doing, by having a sentence to get rid of parenthood or cutting off from companionship, we're doing the children a deep wrong. This means that we lose the opportunity to protect many of these children, and we fear that the courts will set the threshold too high to assess the need for protection of children. Instead, we're going a different way, by saying that you have to raise the threshold because when you're going to get together at all in part of these things, where we know that it's not for the children to get together. If you get a conviction for assault or violence, it is quite natural that you do not go along with these children or give them an extreme degree of association.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1746	Let's first agree that the issue of deadlines for change of danger should also be dealt with as a matter where the child's best interests are at the centre. As I said in my post, the government shows that in two thirds of the cases raised after the amendment, the right fatherhood was established. The Ministry writes in its proposal: ‘The Ministry assumes that for some of these children it will be burdensome for their biological father to bring an action before the court for the release of the father.’ You can understand that, but the question is what's best for the child. Is it possible to draw general conclusions about what's best for the child, based on the issues? My question to the Council of State is: If you are in retrospect, e.g. In adulthood, could these children have asked the following questions: Was this explanation of the better or to the worse for you? Would you have preferred never to know the truth? What does the Council of State think that the children would then answer?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1764	For children it is most important to have security, predictability, love and someone who is there for them and is going to be for them. In the proposal we have submitted, it has been thoroughly assessed by the Committee on the Safety of the Sea. Then they looked at assessments of the child's best and the balance between the social and the biological parenthood. We don't put up with cutting off the kids from the ability of the sea to figure this out, if they want it. On the contrary, we say that the children's seas should still have the opportunity to promote matters without a deadline. It is essential for us that consideration of the child's need for stability and predictability is what we need to emphasise. In most cases where a case has been raised, it was found that it was the established hazard that was the biologically correct one as well. So we believe that the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party is not suitable for creating greater security.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1773	It's a little sad for the Council of States that we have a committee where the Left does not sit. I hope we can do something about that. We have therefore not been able to put forward the proposals we have made today in the debate. But I would like the Council of State to comment on them, both about giving children protection or a spokesman in cases of high level conflict that end up in the judiciary, and about strengthening the marriage law so that people actually conclude a contract, which might prevent the level of conflict from getting so high in the event of a breach.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1778	With regard to the two proposals that have been promoted by the Left, the first proposal concerns a representative of the child. We reinforce that right in the issues of violence and sexual assault. We have a system today, where a representative of the children can be appointed in matters of primary negotiation, and the Committee assumes that such a representative should be appointed as a general rule. That is why I believe that the intention of this proposal is respected. It's a little unclear to me if you want this to be an obligation for all the main negotiations or not. We have not been able to assess that. With regard to the second proposal, it is the responsibility of the Minister of Justice. At least that's not part of the Children's Act. So it's a topic that can definitely be addressed to discussion later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1785	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1788	A brief remark towards the end: The Council of State criticises the Advance Party for putting the child aside when we believe that there must be a judgment in a case where there is suspicion of violence and abuse. The government's proposal is that it's enough that it's just a suspicion. We know that it is often misused, and that is why it is so important for the Progress Party to ensure that there is a judgment in the matter. But we must then enable the courts to move forward in such matters, that they must be dealt with quickly, so that we can help the children who need it. I want to challenge the Council of State on the question she did not answer in my reply. This was true of the cases in which there is already a judgment today. There is a sentence, and the parents are imprisoned for violence and abuse against their children; but when they are finished zoning, they can come out again and have care for their children. There are many desperate children, parents and other parties who feel that they have to send their children – for which they are afraid – to the other party, who have already been convicted of violence and abuse. The party of progress does not understand that the government cannot at least ensure that those who have already been convicted for this automatically lose their concern and association. The representative, Kvifte Andresen, pointed out that it is remarkable that the Progress Party would have automatically shared care. I want to remind the representative that it is actually a scheme that Sweden has had for many years, and that works very well there. That's what a father once said: we're very good at talking about equality in this country, and we've come very far in terms of gender equality in family life. But it's only valid as long as you have a normal family condition, with a father and a mother living together. When it's broken, equality is no longer a topic. It is the reality that many fathers experience out there, and that the Progress Party believes is important that we also take part in this debate. It is also necessary for fathers to have greater rights in relation to having children after a break in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1800	Some claims are repeated so often that they eventually become truth in the population. It worries me. The representative Horne said that we know that allegations of violence and abuse are often abused in these cases. Do we know that? There is no research to support it. There are a lot of claims that thrive in the debate out there, but the research we have shows – at least in the case of sexual assaults – that it is very often that the parents who get to know about it – in this case there were mothers who had applied to the incest centers, who had been investigated – had looked for absolutely all the other explanations of the child's behavior, before they finally had to realize that it could be about sexual abuse. They felt great shame and great fear. They were afraid to lose their care, if they went to court. They also felt guilty because they had not managed to protect their own child. They thought it was hard to think that they had had sexual relations with the same person who had then had sexual relations with their own child. We can just imagine how this is. I just want to warn you against throwing around claims that this is something that is very easy to deal with, and that you kind of pull out the attack card. That's not documented. But what we know is there's a lot of darkness in this area. We know a lot about the assumed extent of violence and sexual assault that affects children – perhaps as many as 100,000 children. A disappearing proportion of them are reported and a disappearing small proportion of it again leads to a conviction. If we're going to do what the Advancement Party recommends us to do today, and as I also perceive, the Right in many ways recommends us to do, namely to say that we should set the threshold by conviction, we don't protect children in this country. So what this has said in the past, all except the Advancement Party, is that it is better for one adult to be unlawfully cut off from association than for one child to be subjected to gross abuse, violence, sexual assault and neglect in his upbringing. We have to take over what that means, and we have to be able to stand in that storm. I feel a very strong responsibility for these children, but I also think it is bad to think of the adults who are being unfairly accused. So I'm doing what I can to get the facts informed as best I can. I took initiatives for the children's houses here in this room in 2004. Now we've got ten children's homes, which are just about to contribute to a better environment of competence. I'm working for better family protection, and we're getting better at both involving children's perspectives, gaining competence on violence and sexual abuse in the work of family protection, and improving the competence of high-conflict cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1813	I have to take the floor again to remind you that I did not get an answer to my question to the council of state in the line, because the department draws some very simplified, general conclusions about what's best for children, in the matter of deadlines, based on a very small statistics on how these matters have turned out. The Council of State refers to the stability of young people, but what is stability for a young person? Is a stable situation of uncertainty and uncertainty, a stability based on untruth and lies, a good stability? Yeah, maybe in some cases, and maybe in other cases not at all. I would draw your attention to the Court of Justice's opinion, which says: ‘by reintroducing time limits and conditions for bringing an action for a change in hazard, there is a greater risk of confusion for the public and health professionals regarding legislation and rights, as well as a greater degree of unfortunate conflicts as to whether conditions or deadlines have been exceeded.’ [[...]] Then you say later in the statement: ‘An ongoing doubt as to whether this could have an impact on the parent’s relationship with the child and could therefore also have an adverse effect on the child’s life situation. The RMI does not support the committee’s proposal to reintroduce conditions and time limits for action on the change of hazard.’;» We have to assume that the RMI has considerable experience in this area. They're asking, what is stability, and what is child security in that context? So to the principle rationale that the ministry cites, where you describe different lifecaps and situations in which another man puts on a fatherhood, among other things. where you meet during pregnancy. It also refers to foreign affairs and other matters. Is it that the biological fathers of young people who are in situations similar to those described in the proposition need not feel the responsibility as much longer? For example, in the case that a father experiences a mother finding another man during her pregnancy, is it not so dangerous that, on the contrary, it threatens the child's stability if you have to take responsibility and sign up as a father? What does the ministry really mean to say to young men with the reasoning you're giving here? I think we all have to conclude that these things are not black and white – what will be for the child's best, and what gives stability. This is precisely why it is so strange that the proposition dares to make general conclusions about what is best for the child in such demanding questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1834	First of all, I would like to remind you that the Papacy Committee assumed that only 1-2 pst. of children born in marriage have a different genetic father from that of their mother’s spouse. I feel that what the Christian People's Party is doing here is blowing up a problem that's pretty small – making it the starting point for broad policies that we're going to base on. It is also that for children it is often as important who is a social father as who is a biological father. In any case, it is important for us to ensure the stability, safety and predictability of children, but the children's seas can raise change cases at any time if they want to. The proposal to suspend the deadlines, on which the representative, Mr Håbrek, is concerned, was therefore proposed, as I said in my reply instead, in the light of the committee's investigation. They made a thorough assessment of the best of the child and the balance between social and biological parenthood. A major emphasis was placed on the possibility of legal ties with two parents from birth onwards and that parenthood provides stability over time. In the hearing, a majority of the hearing bodies supported this proposal. I'm glad that the broad connection to what we're doing now, and also to continue with the pater est rule. It's worked well. It is also the way most countries around us deal with this issue, and it is an advantage to have similar legal rules in this particular area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1845	The representative of Mr Øyvind Håbreek has spoken twice earlier in the debate and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1848	In the light of the last articles of the Council of State, I must remind you that the proposition that we are now dealing with, and what we are adopting today, is for example. the assumption that it is not consistent with a statement to establish a hazard to occupational health and well-being management, then requires a DNA test. It tells a lot about the fact that the department of other chapters in the same proposition puts a lot of emphasis on clarifying the biological parenthood. The whole law of the children is based to this extent. A lot of the paragraphs in the Children's Act are about how these DNA tests are going to be performed, so it's a very important consideration that permeates the entire Children's Act. That's what makes me ask questions about the reasoning in the proposition that contradicts it. Otherwise, the department shows that the pater est rule is a presumption rule because you're assuming it's true to the biological, so here the reasoning is not entirely related, and that's what I'm trying to point out.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1855	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1869	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1878	This year it is approx. 10 years ago, the famous kindergarten agreement came into place — a settlement to ensure equal treatment and not least equal funding for private and municipal kindergartens. One of the main objectives of the agreement was to ensure lower parental pay and the development of the sector. We've seen a major expansion of kindergartens in the last ten years, and we've now had almost full kindergarten coverage. Both municipal and not least private kindergarten owners have contributed to the great virtue we have seen in the last ten years. Over 90 pst. by all children now in kindergarten, and the importance and reputation of kindergarten in society have increased in recent years. Now it is time to ensure good and equivalent quality in all kindergartens and to help all children get a good start. The good kindergarten must fill many roles. In addition to the foreseeable funding for kindergartens, our children should have safety, adult contact, be seen and heard, and it is important that we have qualified employees and good parental contact. All of this should be part of shaping the future kindergarten — a kindergarten that is not a place of storage, but a place where parents can be safe to send their children every day. It is therefore gratifying that the Committee broadly agrees with what the future kindergarten should be like – with various small disagreements that I am sure each party will point out. There has been a great deal of tension in the proposals that were to be included in the big message, but one must only acknowledge that a large part of the proposals will come back. They will also have budgetary implications. For the Progress Party, it has always been important, after the kindergarten conciliation, to provide equivalent funding to ensure predictability for all kindergartens. This is an important prerequisite for us to focus on quality. Lifting the quality before we have this in place is hard. One might say it's gratifying that the government is now increasing non-discrimination by 2 pst. in the revised national budget, but one might rather view it as a recognition that the conversion to the municipal framework has not been particularly successful when a mid-year takes this step. The Progress Party believes that 2.5 years of framework funding is enough, and we now have experience to conclude that this has not worked. The signals coming from Barnehage-Norway now are worrying, and I'm afraid the government doesn't have an overview of the consequences this conversion has had, or has the will to clean up. That's why I want to challenge the government that there's no shame in turning around, because we have to get changes in place. All of the parties are now talking about that we have to put in place more recordings without doing anything. Yeah, it costs. But the right that we have today discriminates against families and makes you see to a large extent that you have to plan pregnancy and birth from an artificial date – which we all know is difficult. It is therefore important to ensure that all 1-year-olds in need of kindergarten are given room before talking about having a full babysitting system. We need to ensure a diversity of childcare facilities. Variations in educational content and different thematic kindergartens are valuable. Flexible solutions and predictability are the key to ensuring this. There has been a lot of talk about staffing standards or not. The Government's proposal is to introduce this from 2020 onwards. For those who like to drive with horror propaganda and say that there is not going to be a manning norm with a new government, we can say that today's government is not going to do it either. For the Progress Party, it is important to ensure a good and stable basic staff, but also to provide the kindergartens with flexibility to provide enough adults per child for themselves. We also note that KS says that it needs to correct the under-funding in the sector before launching new, expensive and demanding reforms. We already have a pedagogical standard today that we cannot meet. Let's focus on the big challenge. It is perhaps one of the biggest challenges we have today, that the application for kindergarten education is falling, and that more than 17,000 jobs in other professions. There is a lot that could have been included in this article on this matter, but I will end with how important the employees of the nursery are. I visited a kindergarten in Stavanger last summer and got to see the employees – skilled and unskilled – who showed me that it is important to make sure they have time to listen to and see the children. We must recognise different educators and give the unskilled time for further development and empowerment. Then we get quality in kindergartens. Then we have safe children, happy parents and satisfied employees who give us the future kindergarten. I would like to take up with this the proposals behind the vote by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and I would also like to point out that we are going to support proposal No. 11, 12, 15 and 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1908	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to. The President then understands that the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture has nevertheless asked for a line to be drawn up by the representatives. That means it opens up for a line change. The first replicator to sign up for is Gunn Karin Gjul. There are now up to three lines, as the President understands.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1915	Thank you so much for allowing the President to change his lines. I would like to begin by commending the representative Horne for having done a good and thorough caseworker's job. But what I want most to praise the Advancement Party for is that they've been very loyal to the Kindergarten Agreement. From the conclusion of the agreement more than 10 years ago, it has been loyally followed up by the Progress Party from day one until now. What amazes me more than ever is that we've now kind of come to a new crossroads, and it's about that we've gone from having full babysitting coverage and what's going on is that we're getting space for the kids, that we're now going to get good quality. It amazes me that the Progress Party will not be involved in setting up a staffing standard. Not least for the smallest children, it is very important that you have caring adults, and that there are many of them for them to have a safe place in the nursery. I do not understand why the Progress Party will not ensure good quality in kindergarten in the years to come, when they have been involved in full child care coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1924	First, I want to thank you for your praise. The Progress Party has been loyal to the kindergarten agreement all the way – unlike the government parties, which have not yet been able to fully finance the private kindergartens. It is disappointing that the government parties have not made it up to now. So there's a lot of talk about the standard of living and the quality of kindergartens. For the Progress Party, it has been important to get funding in place and to have faith that the day we get 100 pst. Non-discrimination between private and municipal kindergartens also provides children's gardens with stable and predictable funding. I am afraid that with today's framework funding it is the government parties that are going to weaken the quality of the future kindergartens. I would also like to remind the representative Gjul that the standard of manning of which the government parties are now boasting is not to be introduced until 2020. There's a lot that can happen in this room before 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1935	The representative Horne argued here for the importance of increasing the number of kindergarten admissions per year, in view of the fact that the children should not be up to two years before they can fit in kindergarten. Similarly, in its action programme, the Progress Party has decided that they will have a permanent childcare facility. In today's setting, they think it is passive by the government to propose only a gradual escalation to two recordings per year. However, nothing else is proposed from the Progress Party in the current position – nor has there been any provision for more entry into the alternative budget of the Progress Party, other than to refer to the local framework and increase there. So my question to the representative Horne is: how does the Progress Party want to work for them to introduce the obligations set out in the action programme on ongoing kindergarten admissions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1944	I thank you for the question and am also happy that SV has so clearly signaled that they want more recording than we have today. The Progress Party believes that the right that exists today, by having been born before 1 September, is wrong, and that there are a lot of families suffering from this. Therefore, the Progress Party wants it to be a right for all 1-year-olds to have kindergarten when they need it. Therefore, in its alternative budget for this year, the Progress Party has ensured that all 1-year-olds born in 2012 are entitled to kindergarten. There's money that we've put in our budgets to secure those kids that year, and then we have to get back into the budget for next year. We see quite clearly that this costs, but we are willing to spend money on the fact that all 1-year-olds who need kindergartens are going to have that right fulfilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1951	The Progress Party is taking a strong attack on today's system of government grants in kindergartens. Furthermore, they propose that support for kindergartens should be based on the number of children and the number of hours per nursery. Does this mean that the Progress Party believes that all children are equal and require the same follow-up? And is the Progress Party willing to implement such a system, even if it will affect all the small kindergartens that exist across the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1956	I have to say that I am jumping over the question. The nursery agreement clearly stated that it was to be a state funding of kindergartens, and we were to have a non-discrimination between private and public kindergartens. So there was a funding where you got paid depending on how many children you had in kindergarten. In 2011, the government introduced a framework funding, which has shown that we have had major differences across Barnehage-Norway. The private kindergartens now have a worse everyday life. We see that the municipal kindergartens have cut in their budgets. We also see that the municipal kindergartens hide some things in their budgets, which in turn cause the private to get less paid. The most important thing here is to ensure equal and predictable funding. That is why the Progress Party wants to turn around so that we get back the funding mechanism we had in 2011 – when it was a state-owned price finance, and the kindergartens were paid per child they had in kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1967	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1971	Kindergartens represent one of the finest things we have in Norwegian society. Here the kids can experience security, care, meet others and play. There has been an enormous social virtue, and the situation, as it is today, would not have been possible without a strong community of local women and ferrets, individuals and groups, parents and communities who have stood on – or without the big community. Some, even in this room, will claim that the community limits the freedom of people. I would rather say that the community is the basis of people's freedom. We clearly see that in the kindergarten. What was it like before when you had to take care of babysitting yourself, and that was rigid prices? We should therefore thank all those who have stood by for us to be there today. We had never come here without their efforts, nor without the government, who has been willing to prioritise money for this – or without people being willing to contribute to funding by paying taxes. Without parents and communities that had set up in countless hours of labor, we would not have had the situation we have today. Not least, we should thank the employees, who each day do a great job for our children. Many of them tell about a frustrating everyday life with too little time for the children. My sister works in kindergarten, and she told me about a four-year-old who said to her after he had been waiting for help for a while, and she had promised to come soon: «Laila, I seem to be very long». This is why the main actions we have taken in this communication — more staff, more competence and more restraint in the freedom of exemption — are very important. We want a society that protects the family and the individual: through good parental leave for both parents in their first year of life, through full child-care coverage and successively multiple admissions – for the sake of both children and parents – and through social security that ensures the possibility of both work and care. And we're going to fight against the right-hand side's desire for more temporary jobs and more use of overtime. It is this that creates real freedom for the families of young children, and it builds strong communities. When we go together in kindergarten and at school, we get closer together, we trust others more, and we feel that we matter to others. Therefore, many people have to experience kindergarten as a real offer. We have ensured this through the maximum price, but it is also important to be clear on the responsibility of municipalities to offer moderation schemes and offers to children with special needs. This work needs to be reinforced. Disquieting events outside Stockholm and other European cities show us what happens when the community collapses. People don't like distance, injustice and unfairness. We can tell another story in Norway. Just look at the incredible development in the coverage of minority children in kindergarten: when the red-green government joined in 2005, 53.6 pst went. in kindergarten, and in 2011 went 73 pst. of minority children in kindergarten. And we're going on. It may be tempting to ask how many future demonstrations this has prevented. How many more people taking higher education are contributing to this? This shows what Community solutions contribute to. In addition, if we are able to catch up with problems that some children are struggling with, we can contribute to a good childhood that will allow each individual to make his own choices. That's what this big message is really about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1990	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e1993	The representative Stokkan-Grande is always engaged in his posts, and I am fully aware that he is engaged in child care matters. He has shown this period, also through several notices in which he talks hotly about both 24-hour and flexible opening times in kindergartens, for which he will work, and about more recordings. Last August, the representative was out and said that it was now important to get more recordings in place. My questions to the representative are: Is this just something he's saying in the paper? When will the representative Stokkan-Grande see to it that more recordings are in place, so that we ensure all one-year-olds real space in kindergartens when they need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2000	Thank you for Solveig Horne's great interest in my role as a magnificent representative. It's always nice to be referred, and that what you say is taken seriously. In the case of multiple recordings, we show, through what is outlined in this big message, that one should actually take action by gradually stepping up to two recordings per year. This is something you are willing to commit to, but there are rounds you have to take in connection with the state budget. This is not a budget debate. It is important to remember that municipalities are free to have more, and, in general, to keep recording. A lot of municipalities do. It is also the case that many private kindergartens today bring up children who are not really entitled to kindergarten. They have full access to that. In a lot of ways, this works out for the kids, but we have to go on, because there's a lot of people who don't feel able to fit in. That is why we commit ourselves to gradually introducing two recordings in the year, and that is what we stand for.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2009	I would also like to draw attention to a few quotations from the member of the Central Board of Education Association Hege Valås, who writes in the editorial in this month’s edition of the Educational Association’s magazine ‘First Steps’. ‘The head of the contact forum is disappointed – actions and obligations are too vague and the time perspective is too far in the communication on the future kindergarten.’ And on the other hand, ‘Many with me had probably expected that the government would now ‘land’ concrete measures for increased quality. What we see is, in reality, a new postponement of concrete commitments.’ And finally: ‘I am disappointed, not because of the ambitions of the communications, but because the measures and obligations are too vague and have a time perspective that is not worthy of the sector.’ Does the member of the Central Board of Education fail, or does she have a point in evaluating the kindergarten announcement?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2032	I record that many of those who express disappointment – or what you should call it – do not disagree with the government in what is proposed, but you might imagine that things went faster, and we are many in this room who would like to. However, this should be weighed against other budgetary considerations, and it is important to take the escalation gradually, so that the kindergarten owners also have time to change, for example. the requirement for increased ground crew. It's also a fact, based on what we see from comments from the committee, that with the Right it becomes the more expensive kindergartens, with the Progress Party there will be no escalation in basic manning, and with the Christian People's Party there will be a more rigid system with regard to opening hours in kindergartens. I don't think this is a tempting option for those who today have great ambitions on behalf of children, and with whom we are shoulder to shoulder.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2039	I would have liked to have challenged the representative to elaborate on the latter, but I am not going to spend time on that. The representative Stokkan-Grande was very concerned about the quality of kindergarten everyday life, and it's the Christian People's Party as well, and that's good. He says that where there are children who may not experience their everyday life so well, one should now, among other things. insert a standard of manning and increase manning. Then I almost have to ask the representative, Stokkan-Grande, since this important measure is to be introduced by 2020 – i.e. after today's kindergarten child for the longest time is finished in kindergarten and has started at school: Did the four-year-old in kindergarten where the representative's relative works, maybe a point? Perhaps soon is very long in the kindergarten and will be there for many years to come, if the government gets its will?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2048	I share Håbreuk's commitment to increased quality, and I also see, like Hope, that this is very much about the employees, about their competence and that they have sufficient staffing. I also share the representative's impatience in introducing this. And then at the same time we have to look at the realities. There are not very many pre-school teachers who are currently unemployed. They like to work in other professions, many of them work in school. Many kindergarten owners need to be prepared for the developments that are taking place, and it is important to note that increased demands for increased staffing also have budgetary implications in the form of the State budget. That's why we think it's a sensible approach to gradually escalating, but I expect kindergarten owners to immediately set in motion plans for how to increase staff, and at least they don't cut down, as we see examples of in some kindergartens. The need for increased equal treatment between kindergartens – private and municipal – is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2055	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2058	The kindergarten shall provide children with safe and well-kept care. It shall stimulate children to play, develop and learn through high-quality educational provision. Children are in constant development, and they learn something new every day. Kindergartens help to strengthen the development of children on their own premises. It is best to see each child and provide the necessary help and follow-up, of course in good dialogue with parents. Employees in the right believe that kindergarten is the main resource. Strengthening the competence of employees thus enhances the quality of the content of kindergartens. Competitive employees and safe adults are one of the keys to happy kindergarten children and satisfied parents. The right will make kindergarten an attractive job with a high professional level, so that pedagogues apply to kindergartens. Very many qualified educators choose to work outside the kindergarten today. One important reason why they end up in kindergarten is, according to many, the lack of a professional environment, because there are many unskilled assistants and very large penetrations. The right will have an overall competence strategy in kindergarten, where kindergartens are responsible for making a significant contribution. The right will increase the competence of all those working in kindergarten by investing in continuing education and training for everyone. We are disappointed that the kindergarten message does not place greater emphasis on it. We had expected – like very many others – that the message would come with a quality promise. That is why we are disappointed at how little the message meets the need for an overall commitment of competence for all employees, not least the great lack of focus on good management that characterises the message. For the Right, kindergarten can never be a substitute for family responsibilities, but we recognize the important role of kindergarten in many children's lives. Most children go to kindergarten before they start school, and this has resulted in the kindergarten, in addition to the family, becoming a major area of development and mastering. 6000 educators work on dispensation, according to the Education Association. 17,000 kindergarten teachers work outside the sector. The application for kindergarten teacher training went down by 18,1 p.m., we heard a few weeks ago. It's not a joyous number we can read for the kindergarten sector. There have been a lot of big words about the little ones from this government lately. Therefore, it was not strange that many people were disappointed, because the ambitions have been so great, and it was so little that came in the message. I want to draw up the Education Association, and what Morten Solheim, the lecturer at teacher training in Oslo and Akershus, and Lene Chathrin Hansen, who completes his master's in kindergarten education, writes: ‘Parents have gone on trains, pre-school teachers have gone on strike, grandmothers have signed, Children’s Ombudsman has warned, newspapers have spanked several slitmillimeters and the Minister of Knowledge has thanked for his commitment. But from taking note and putting political action behind the demands, the road seems endless." And on the other hand, ‘We also feel discouraged because the text of the message repeats what we have heard about quality in kindergartens over the last two decades. Repeated mantras on quality which are rapidly reduced to flakes when not followed up in concrete policy action.’ These are pure words for the money. There is no doubt that very many in the sector are disappointed because they have done so little to raise the quality, to make sure that we get enough competent adults in kindergarten more quickly, to strengthen their skills and make it even more attractive as a job. This must be done so that we can give the children the most valuable day of kindergarten they can have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2081	The representative should perhaps make suggestions?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2085	Yes, I bring up this proposal from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2090	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland then addressed the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2095	The representative of Hofstad Helleland said in his statement that, for the right, the employees are the most important resource. It stands in a very sharp contrast to the statement by Torger Ødegård, who controls the kindergarten sector in Oslo, which says that there is no link between the number of employees and the quality of kindergartens. At the same time, we know that Oslo is one of the few municipalities in Norway — perhaps the only one — where the last year has been a strike among parents and employees because they are dissatisfied with the way politics are managed in the city. Did the representative of Hofstad Helleland take this distance from the Ødegård opinion and from the way Oslo Right governs this city?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2102	I am very pleased that Oslo Right together with SV has now reached a standard in Oslo that will be implemented from January 2014. It is in stark contrast to what the government is doing, which introduces a 2020 standard. Right is with and support that norm because that's what came in this message. While Oslo Right now has a norm from January 2014, the government is presenting a norm that will be from 2020. Right on Stortinget and I have no doubt that the quality of kindergartens is related to enough competent adults. That is why, like many others, we are disappointed that the government is not more concerned with getting more competent employees in kindergarten than they are doing in this communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2109	I thought it was such that this recruitment norm that is now being introduced, something Right was not wanted in Oslo, that there was an agreement that lay there between the City Council and the Education Association. Then it was cancelled by the Right, and then it is – on the basis of an agreement that many here in this room are satisfied with, among other things. I – again pressured to introduce this recruitment code from January 2014, which is good and good, and it is good that Hofstad Helleland now supports it. But my question should not be about that. Now the Right says that you have to make sure that the municipalities will facilitate ongoing childcare. Right-wing want to introduce income upgrading in kindergartens and, in today's setting, they are also in favour of a standard of living. At the same time, large tax havens are promised, and they want to cooperate with the Progress Party – which does not want much of this, and which also wants much more tax havens. My question is: how will Hofstad Helleland ensure that all these good measures proposed are implemented by the Right?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2121	I'm very happy to be able to answer that, and I'm going to contribute to making the Right as much as possible in the autumn's choices, which also give us the opportunity to make major changes in kindergarten policy. We now see that, especially among parents and out in the sector, there is a very strong desire for greater action in terms of increasing the skills of employees and strengthening the professional environments, so that one does not get the impact that is now there. To have predictability among employees, there is much to say for the safety of young people. Then we want more flexibility in babysitting. Now, parents have to plan their birth on the artificial date set by the government for kindergarten admissions, and it's hard to pay for many parents. Then we want to contribute to greater diversity, and also to ensure all the private better framework conditions than the government has... [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2126	I will follow up on the question from the representative Kvifte Andresen. Right will – and it was referred to instead – ‘ensure all children a real right to kindergarten, regardless of when the child is born’. This will cost a lot, and it will also require a lot of new educators, which we have been to before, and which the representative of Hofstad Helleland himself was in. The government has calculated that two recordings cost about 1.3 billion. kr annually, and I don't have a number of what the current recording costs, but that's a lot. We already know that the Progress Party, which also supports this measure, will cut significantly the tax burden. Then it might be interesting to hear what the Right is going to do. Does the Right intend to increase taxes, or from which item will they take money to finance this measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2133	Now I don't feel that it's my job to argue for the Advance Party's policy, but I'm going to argue for the Right Policy and explain to the representative of the Center Party what the Right proposes in terms of flexible admission. In the revised budget, we now allocate funds to 2000 fully funded places, which will be used to escalate flexible admissions. The reason why we want flexible admissions and funds to the 2,000 kindergartens now is because we're warned from the sector not to introduce two main admissions, because it's very bureaucratic, and that's not what parents want. Parents want flexible babysitting, and the right takes parents’ wishes seriously, not least for all women who now take unpaid leave and who also lose pension earnings. Because it's often those who go home when you don't get babysitting. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2138	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2141	When I was preschool, there was hardly any kindergarten. I was given the opportunity to be with other children a few parking hours a week at the age of four. When my brother was four years old, he was given kindergarten space in a newly built residential area where combative women had fought kindergarten as a natural building in the area, but where only a few were allowed. Even I had to go through appeals as a single mother in order to have a nursery place for my daughter – while my daughter is now entitled to a nursery place from August 1st this year. She is probably a year and a half and has been taken care of in the last six months. Here at the Stortinget. I have also been given the opportunity to be with her in the open nursery and have learned that this is a useful offer for those who for some reason do not have kindergarten space. Here they are given the opportunity to meet other children, a first pedagogical offer and an approach to the ordinary nursery. But of course it would have been better for both the granddaughter and her parents with kindergarten also this semester. And with the decision to introduce two kindergarten admissions a year – by a gradual escalation – more people will be able to take place at the age of one year. Through struggle and political will, we got in place the child hail lift – a revolution for the families of children, which SV likes to boast without fear of being put in place. It has given 77 000 more children space in kindergarten — and at a lower price than before. SV has as well-known targets for free childcare facilities for all in the long term. When all children now have the right to babysitting, I am happy to address this big message where the main emphasis is on measures to improve the quality of kindergartens. Important measures here are good manning and staff with good competence. So until the fall, my granddaughter starts in kindergarten. There she'll play, learn, give and care. Kindergarten is the first step in education for most children today, an important arena for social development, language development and learning. What is important to me is that she meets a predictable everyday life with a firm and not too large group, and not least competent and many enough adults who can follow up and care for her needs. For one-half-year-olds, a safe connection in kindergarten is important. She will need care and closeness, support and comfort, help in building relationships and competent adults who can support all learning to take place. And now we have proposals to deal with that very thing. By introducing requirements for basic staffing in kindergartens in one adult per three children for small children's seats and one adult per six children for large children's seats, we provide a minimum staffing in kindergartens, which is a necessary step to ensure high and equivalent quality in all kindergartens. Research is clear that the number of children per adult is one of the most important factors for children’s well-being and development. By imposing restrictions on the possibility of granting permanent dispensation from the educational requirement to the educational director and manager, we will help to ensure that more people complete kindergarten teacher training in order to obtain permanent employment. And through the notified competence strategy for kindergarten employees, presented for the autumn, the competence of staff shall be increased and qualified staff recruited. SV has programmed that we will increase the skills requirements of the staff in kindergartens and step up to at least half of the staff in kindergartens should have pedagogical competence. But then we first have to have a minimum crew in the kindergartens, which is now secured. For the smallest children in particular, research shows that stability and not too large a kindergarten are important. I am therefore pleased that the government will consider introducing a provision in the Children's Homes Act that makes it clear that children have the right to belong to a child group and that the size of the child group should be sound. The aim is to create security and belonging and to avoid a trend towards larger groups of children, as expressed some concern by the Paediatric Committee. I find it strange that the Right Party and the Advance Party in the matter support the fact that stability and small groups are important for the quality of kindergartens, but still do not want to support proposals of sound group size. You the world as lucky as we are in Norway – where the best of children is increasingly placed in the centre, where we provide good opportunities for families to combine work and care, and where we have an overall idea for people from kindergarten to continuing adult education. But this has not come without political struggle and will. With a Swedish nursery minister, we now have a good childcare message for treatment and adopt a number of measures that make the quality of kindergarten even better – for the benefit of the children, and including my grandchild!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2168	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2171	We are lucky in Norway, which has the kindergarten we have, and thanks to an agreement between the Progress Party and SV, we have put in place an expansion of kindergartens that very many countries envy us. The representative, Kvifte Andresen, is talking about his granddaughter who's about to start in kindergarten now, and about how important it is to have a stable and good crew, even in relation to the standard of staffing. But the standard of manpower that the government imposes here is not going to come into force until 2020. So it's just a complaint, but the representative's dear grandson is not going to experience that standard. Many kindergartens today have good staffing. We know that what we especially lack is preschool teachers. It is not that kindergartens do not want to hire pre-school teachers, but they do not exist, and a recruitment standard itself does not provide new pre-school teachers. So my question to the representative is, what will SV do to ensure that we get more pre-school teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2180	Like the representative Horne, I am, of course, impatient about the standard of manning and would wish it were in place from the fall, so that my granddaughter could benefit from it. Now she lives in a municipality that has approximated crewing according to the crewing standards, but unfortunately not fully. However, as the representative Stokkan-Grande was also involved, it takes time to get up in enough staff with sufficient competent staff. For it is important that there are employees with child-care skills who work to the greatest extent in kindergartens and sufficient numbers of pedagogues. The representative Horne asks questions about how we can ensure this in the best possible way. A great deal of the answer lies in making the kindergarten profession as attractive as possible, and there are a good number of important measures that are promoted here in the plan, including: a strategy of competence for the autumn, in the hope of strengthening the competence of all and making it more attractive to return to kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2187	When they joined the government, SV had great ambitions to abolish child poverty. Unfortunately, it has not been completely like SV, perhaps separately. There have been several poor children during this government, and it may not have been as easy to eliminate poverty as SV had seen. That's also why the Right Party and the Christian People's Party propose that child-rich families, low-income families and single-parent families have the opportunity to pay less for a nursery place. The nursery maxima price and the parental allowance in the nursery have been paid – you can say – to the benefit of the middle class. You pay a lot less for a nursery place now than you did a few years ago, but for those with the lowest income, the situation is not like that. Why does SV not want to be involved in supporting a proposal with income-rated parental payments, so that low-income families will get cheaper kindergartens than today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2196	There is now a regulatory opportunity and a call for municipalities to introduce moderation schemes both in the context of sibling moderation and for low-income families. What is mentioned in the position is that municipalities should be made more aware of the obligation they have to provide care for families who are struggling to pay for the nursery place. It's a great deal that we now have a kindergarten price that's much lower than what it was many years ago, so it's far fewer who's struggling with it now. So it is that the Right has the rapporteur in 119 of the country's municipalities. In Narvik, Moss, Eidsberg, Ski, Kongsvinger, South Odal, Øyer etc. – 69 Right-wing municipalities – it has been decided not to introduce any moderation schemes, although it is therefore stated in the regulation that the municipalities should do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2203	The representative Kvifte Andresen refers to research when she justifies the importance of increased staffing and the introduction of a staffing standard. The question then has to be, to the SV and the representative: Does the research to which the representative refers indicate whether there is a difference between the importance of staffing for children who have been in kindergarten before 2020 and those who go to kindergarten after 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2208	There, I think the representative of Hope knows the answer, that it is of course in today's situation that one believes that a higher adult density will lead to increased quality. For this reason, it is important for SV to work for a strengthened crew standard. But then it's not like we have enough staff to implement that norm tomorrow, and out there among those who know Barnehage-Norway, we're also going to meet that it makes sense to have a gradual introduction of the recruitment norm. I wish we could get it in place from this fall, but it is not possible. We just don't have enough staff, we don't have the resources to get it today. But hopefully, there are a lot of municipalities implementing the recruitment code before 2020, because they know that it is the last time to introduce the recruitment code that is being adopted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2215	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2218	Today, all young children’s parents take it as a matter of course that as soon as the leave period is over, or as soon as they intend to go back to work, they will have a kindergarten. It sounds like a completely different age than when I had little children. I have the feeling of having been on a time journey – from the Stone Age of kindergarten to today. As a young mother, I fought for the whole day’s nursery services in the municipality I live in. It was by no means obvious to get it, and in meeting the headmaster he said, "You have to remember, girls, that it's expensive to have the kids in the kindergarten." The husband of the government. And yes, it was expensive, but it was even more expensive to have them with your mother. So it's also part of the time journey, that today it's actually very reasonable to have children in kindergarten – about half the price of what I paid, or maybe even less. It is thanks to the red-green government that the small children's families with the greatest of course expect kindergarten today. And it is thanks to the red-green government that one today has a max price of approx. $2,300, so that anyone who wants it can afford to have the children in kindergarten. We in the Center Party are very happy that today we are dealing with the issue of the future kindergarten, because even though there has been a massive development in the number of kindergartens, we are not at all satisfied with it. Now it's the quality that needs to be ensured. First, I would like to say that there are many, many good kindergartens around Norway. It's not like we have bad kindergartens, although in many places it's been focused on quantity. In some places it has not been enough to focus on what is most important: competence and adult density. In recent years, there have been many more small children in kindergartens than in the past, children from one year and up. Many people suggest that you do not know enough about the consequences of having so young children in kindergarten. The centre party wants it to be researched on the day of these children's kindergartens and what it needs to do to make them the best possible. But without research we can say that the quality of staff, group size, adult density and not least the continuity of employees are important factors for young children to have a good day-to-day nursery. This is what we in the Center Party and the Red-Green Government are concerned about, and that's why we've fallen to the conclusion that we need a crew standard. Once we set the time for 2020, it's because we want to give kindergartens time to recruit sufficient skills. Because it's not just about adults, it's about adults working in kindergartens. Quality and competence are closely linked. We have an important job to do when it comes to training kindergarten staff. I want us to reach the educational norm of the Øie Committee, but see that today we are struggling to meet today's norm, and we have too many educational leaders who have a derogation from the education requirement. A paradox is, for someone who comes from more rural areas, that it's actually Akershus and Oslo who have the most on the dispensation. Therefore, the Centre Party believes that it is wise to invest in the training of kindergarten teachers and to enhance the competence of other staff. We are concerned that kindergarten teachers are developing, and that there are several places in the higher education institutions around the country, and not least we are engaged in the decentralised education services. If we are to ensure our children the best kindergarten teachers, and if we are to ensure that young people of both sexes want to enter this profession, the status of education and of the profession itself must be raised. The profession needs to be discussed, and there is a possible need to consider wages as an instrument, not least to get more men to apply for this training. The private kindergartens are important for having enough space, but not least they also contribute to a diversity of kindergartens, with their courtyards, outdoor children's gardens and other types of thematic children's gardens. The centre party is concerned that we guarantee these kindergartens equal treatment with the public, and we are happy that in the government parties we agree to get 100 pst. financing of private kindergartens from 2014. And then they're really going to have to be equal. It's important. The center party is not for designation, but we see that there is too much difference in the calculation basis for payments to the private kindergartens. Therefore, we need to establish good guidelines on how municipalities should calculate this in order to ensure real non-discrimination with public kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2252	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2255	The representative concluded by saying that she should ensure private kindergartens equal funding and also equal regulatory treatment to public kindergartens. Today, we see that many private kindergartens are struggling financially because some municipal kindergartens are cutting their budgets, and they have other regulations to keep accounts after, which gives them a great deal of results. The centre party also participated in the kindergarten agreement, which said that one should treat the private and municipal kindergartens in a non-discriminatory manner. My question will then be: Does the representative agree that the conversion to framework funding has not been successful?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2261	I cannot say that I agree that the conversion to framework funding has not been successful, because it has not yet been achieved. But it's too bad so far. This is complicated. We don't want the ringing of the funds. We do not want it to be financed separately and paid per item. If, for example: has a small kindergarten somewhere with ten kids, so they only get the price for the ten kids. This is complicated, and the municipalities have not completely achieved equal treatment for kindergartens. Here is a job that the Department must do in dialogue with the National Association of Private Barnenhagens to create guidelines that are easier to deal with for the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2268	The representative Grøtting and the undersigned recently took part in a debate at the Landsförbund of Privatee Barnehager. There the representative Groetting said that the centre party was the guarantor to ensure that the private kindergartens had good framework conditions. That's what I thought was a very interesting statement. I wonder what the Center Party has provided? Is it the Center Party that has now ensured a better non-discrimination, or what else is the Central Party that has been implemented in the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2273	Then I think the representative of Hofstad Helleland heard a little wrong. I didn't say we were the guarantor of private kindergartens. I said we were the guarantor of the red-green government for private kindergartens. We've been very busy. The other parts of the Red-Green government are in on it – for all things – but we in the Center Party are terribly concerned about it. We're reaching 100 pst. equal financing from 2014. There's been an escalation – now it's 96 pst. As I said, we need to ensure the regulatory framework so that it becomes non-discrimination from municipality to municipality. We're concerned about this, we're working on this, and we're going to succeed in this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2278	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2281	Kindergarten is available for young people, but kindergarten is also available for working life. We need to be open and honest about this tension, because it requires great care from us as politicians to ensure that kindergarten is a good place to be, and that kids' everyday lives are not given completely different reasons, such as: the preconditions of working life. This must be a fundamental concern of kindergarten policy. It therefore does not, as the majority instigate, consider that the child's best interests should be given weight. What in the world does that mean? The Christian People's Party is pleased that we now finally seem to have a broad political consensus on a quality promise for kindergarten. We've been through a period of rapid expansion. There has been a major upheaval in kindergarten policy, but also for the daily lives of Norwegian kids – and for the whole of Norwegian society really – when we have gone from a situation where 20 years ago we had only a small minority of 1-year-olds in kindergarten, until today we have most of the 1-year-olds in kindergarten. Kindergarten has not sufficiently addressed this development. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that now is the time for a raise for the quality of the smallest children separately. We see it coming from research reports that indicate that the stress hormone cortisol gets a strong growth in many young people in early childhood, and that this lasts longer than you have often thought. Therefore, access and familiarity in the nursery are very central. The Christian People's Party believes that it should be considered to introduce a new practice with the right to leave work in relation to kindergarten start for two weeks instead of three days, and where the child is to meet one and the same person every day for the first few weeks. We have to take the smallest kids seriously in kindergarten. I am amazed that the Christian People's Party is alone in lifting this important theme. We've been through a revolution in the last twenty years – we don't know where we are in twenty years. That development continues, and society's thinking, consciousness and understanding of this is constantly evolving. We need to be humble about that, and that is why we need to add freedom of choice to the families of young children, where they can choose between different options. There are still many parents who think it is too early to send the one-year-olds to kindergarten. We're in front of a quality lift. But then it's important to define what is quality? The content of kindergarten shall not be that kindergarten is primarily part of the education cycle. Rather, it should be that it prevents problems later in life. The main focus in kindergarten shall be the self-esteem of childhood with a focus on care, play, creation and development. I would like to point out that there has been a positive change in focus since the previous day on kindergarten. I'll give that to the Council of State. Young children need adults — all the time. Manning standards are the most important means of raising quality in the future. It is nice to hear the representative Stokkan-Grande say that it is assumed that the municipality immediately begins to escalate the crew in line with this standard. However, it is not very attractive to publish a position where the text of the job advertisement reads as follows: «Accession 2020». «Soon» is very long in the red-green kindergarten policy. Then I would like to stress the importance of not only getting a standard of staffing, but that it gets a meaning in everyday life, even when the employees are ill. Sick leave must not be an excuse to avoid a standard of navigation. So I would say that a quality promise must involve increased staffing, more focus on the smallest, more pedagogues, fewer exemptions and more admissions to ensure better freedom of choice and flexibility for families with children. I will come back to the rest of my next post. I take up the suggestions that the Christian People's Party has on its own, and that they share with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2304	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2309	I was in my post concerned that we need a policy that protects the family, and that is something I record that the representative Hope is also concerned about in his post – and in many speeches in several debates in this room. The Christian People's Party wants closer cooperation on the civil side. We know that it's probably going to mean a removal of the father's quota – that is, less opportunity to be home with children. It could mean more expensive kindergartens, and that it would appear less attractive for many to have children in kindergarten. There will be increased use of temporary jobs, perhaps over time, which will put further pressure on the family and increase the use of privatisation, which puts greater commercial pressure on the family. The question is: will the representative, Håbreek and the Christian People's Party, fight against such social development, or will one sit in the leadership in view of this kind of social development? When we know that billions of dollars are promised, does the representative hope that there will be room for all the great promises of the Christian People's Party? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2316	I cannot say that I am quite surprised that the question came this way, but it is relatively far from the matter we are dealing with here. I want to say anyway that when it comes to e.g. The paper commission, it is such that the Christian People's Party defends a federal quota. We believe that this will ensure freedom of choice, and that will ensure better conditions for families. It's like the red-greens will use the feather ratio to control the lives of families in a way that we can't afford. Similarly, it is in kindergarten policy that we want to have increased staffing and increased bet in kindergartens, but the red-greens will wait with the main measure until the next period. If we had cooperated that way – to which we are not invited – we would not have received support to strengthen the staffing of the kindergarten in the next period. Christian People's Party is safely located... [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2325	Time's up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2328	The Christian People's Party often states – and so did the representative Håbrek in his post now – that flexibility is important for families. Flexibility, or freedom of choice, becomes among others used as an argument for cash support. But the Christian People's Party does not want kindergartens with flexible opening hours and today also promotes proposals to regulate the maximum residence time for children of 47.5 hours per week. Now it's only 1.2 pst. of children who stay more than 47 hours a week in kindergarten, so the proposal that has been promoted here will not lead to significant consequences. How does the Christian People's Party want to facilitate flexibility for parents who work shifts and turns, who have a long journey, single parents, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2335	I am very happy that I get that question – it was one of the things I didn't get to get into my post. We are faced with a quality promise in the kindergarten sector that the Christian People's Party is very concerned about. This must mean an increased focus on the smallest young, enhanced staffing, more educators and more admissions to ensure freedom of choice. I'm very questionable that the majority in the poll and the majority in the hall here are so positive to facilitate longer opening hours and evening open kindergartens in such a picture. How in the world is there room for billions of appropriations, which will then be needed to achieve such a reform, if, in addition, we are to strengthen manpower and strengthen education in kindergartens – and more admissions? There's simply no room for that. If you extend the opening time beyond the evenings, it will lead to a reduction in quality – you extend the manning time. A maximum time must take into account the everyday life of the families for that. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2343	The President requests that the speakers stay within the regulatory speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2346	The Christian People's Party is concerned with a crew norm, and that's all right. They will go beyond anyone else and want to have one adult per two children under the age of three and five children over the age of three. It's a lot, and it's very good, but a lot of people have to be trained to have enough skills for a standard of three children under the age of three per adult and six children over the age of three. The question is, how has the Christian People's Party intended to be able to find enough qualified staff for the kindergartens with such a requirement? One more question – for the Christian People's Party has also not thought that rulers should be counted in the basic manpower, and in many small kindergartens it is that you don't have to rule in 100 pst. position: how are small kindergartens around the country supposed to be able to meet the manning standards you require?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2353	I'm very happy that I also got that question, because then I can figure out what we're putting into it. It is not that the Christian People's Party in the vote is in favour of the minority's proposal in the Barnehage Law Committee, which is based on a stricter recruitment standard. We have chosen to refer to that proposal in the vote. We've done that consciously, because we see that we're not done with the discussion about what's good enough quality for kids in kindergarten. We have too little research on it – I give the government credit for spending more on it. Now we have a proposal for one adult per three children, for the smallest kids. There's still uncertainty, I'd say, whether that's enough, but we might know more about that in five or ten years. That's why we've deliberately chosen to refer to it. This is a discussion we still have to have. In the future, we might get knowledge that tells us to go even further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2360	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2363	There are almost 300,000 children going to kindergarten every day. That's an incredible number of kids. I'm going to start giving some commendation to SV because they've had such a lot of fun getting kindergarten places to as many as we've done. What is the challenge for kindergartens today is: What is a good kindergarten? A kindergarten should provide both security, well-being and play, but it should also be an arena where young people develop, and where all the problems that may come in the first years of a human life are also being tackled. You have to have good professionals and enough adults to see these challenges and take the kids seriously, be able to intervene early enough, and be able to fix all the small, fix the methods – which are impressed with the ability of good kindergarten professionals – to get a kid to stop biting or stop taking toys from others. These are tiny challenges when you're three to four years old, but they're big questions in life, and they can be huge challenges later in life if no good adults take it in a proper way. Then the question is, how are we going to be able to get enough kindergarten teachers, as it is now called, to meet this need? We also know that 40,000 employees lack child education. We have put forward a number of proposals here today. I don't have that long, so I thought I'd spend the most time on them. The first is that we should have a proposal, which we would like to see adopted here in the Grand Duchy, on an obliging escalation plan in order to achieve the objective of 50 pst. by their employees, they shall have appropriate pedagogical training. I think you should have a political virtue on that. It should not be a government document, but it should be something that we all agree on and that all ideas are put on the table. We want to have our own qualification programme for unskilled children in the kindergarten sector, as we also want in the school sector. It's very important to look at how we can easily help people get the skills they need in their working life. We also want the government, on the basis of the school-sector competence enhancement strategy, called Quality Competence, to also notify a system of skills development across the kindergarten sector. Then we believe that what Oslo has now done, and for which the Left is very much, should really have been the template for the rest of the country as well. If we're going to be able to build that expertise around the country, it's nice to set a target for 2020, but I think each municipality should have a plan for how to reach 2020. I believe that it would have been best if all the municipalities had started to make their municipal targets for staffing in their kindergartens. If we had made such a plan in all the municipalities, we would have achieved it faster, I think, because the sooner we get those grips done, the sooner we get to it. The left believes that the maximum price scheme had a clear function when it was introduced. Now it's more of a hustle, especially for social cohesion. We see that many places you choose not to have a differentiated parental payment. The introduction of maximum price schemes has led to fewer having a differentiated parental payment. I think that differentiation of parental payment is very important to get into the kindergarten the families that most need it. It does one not only by using core time, one also by making kindergarten very cheap for those who have poor advice. We have already included this in our budgets, but we are also tabling a verbal proposal here today, proposal No. 14 – which I had hoped would be accepted, at least we should have had a connection based on today's headline in the newspaper – to get it in as part of the kindergarten policy as well. Then we've put in a proposal about student kindergartens, which we think has slowed down, and one about more flexible opening hours. Then I take up the proposals No. 10–16.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2386	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2389	The kindergarten reform is the largest and most important promise made in the Norwegian welfare society in the last ten years. Since the historic kindergarten agreement was concluded in 2003, 81,000 more children have been accommodated in kindergarten, and the price of a kindergarten has actually fallen by 44 pst. We have introduced the right to space, and the public appropriations for kindergartens have actually increased by over 20 billion. kr. There are now 32,800 more employees in kindergartens than 10 years ago. None of this would have been possible if there had not been extensive cooperation between the state, the municipalities and the private sector, and I am proud of what we have achieved jointly in recent years. Many are the stories of those who worried about a daymam they didn't know completely, really was a good daymam. There has been a very variable quality of the offer given to those who did not have a nursery place — including in the kindergarten sector, for example. within the family gardens. Barnhagen is the well-being that has contributed most to our well-developed business and high employment in Norway, and to our being able to combine high birth rates, while at the same time we have many women who are active. Kinderhagen is a kind of barnacle egg: it is good for business, it is good for professional participation, and – the most important thing about kindergartens – it should be a good place for children to be. In Norway, we have a very valuable kindergarten tradition that I'm very concerned about keeping, and I'm very happy that the committee stands behind the fact that we have some qualities in our way of running kindergartens that we're going to start from, and reinforce. The most important thing is that kindergarten is based on the fact that childhood has a value in itself. Childhood is not just a stop-point while you're waiting to grow up. All the small and large experiences have value in themselves, and therefore kindergarten is so incredibly important. The framework plan for kindergarten is based on a comprehensive concept of learning, with care, creation, play and learning as important elements, and that is what we are now going to do. Throughout this huge expansion of kindergartens, we have been able to maintain the same quality over ten years. We have approx. 30 pst. Pedagogues in kindergartens – we had that ten years ago, we now have. This discussion is now about how we are going to be able to raise the quality of kindergarten provision further up. To help with this work, we have had many public investigations that have been in the kindergarten area, but the most important one has been the NOU, which is called Best for the children. The committee has done a very good job that has been very important drag help for the new measures we are now proposing. We have many challenges, but a good starting point. You don't have to be bad to get better. Let me take some of the things that we are primarily proposing: the main thing to ensure the quality in the future is to notify the law of a standard of personnel that will work by 2020 at the latest. It's important, because rumors started going on, and I got a lot of requests from desperate parents who said that now they're tightening up the staff in our nursery. How are we going to be able to stop it? By saying clearly that we are going to have a statutory standard from 2020 that is to be met by all municipalities and all private kindergartens by 2020, we put the plug in that bathtub. It's incredibly important, because babysitting is a starting point for ensuring good quality. We have high crews in Norwegian kindergartens – that's what we're doing, and then we're going to step up. We have an average of three and a half children – we can't talk about half children, but on average we can – under three years per adult in kindergarten and five and a half children between three and six years per adult in kindergarten, and that's a good starting point for moving on. In addition, we have doubled our efforts to increase competence. We come back with a separate boost for the competence of kindergartens, because the most important resource in kindergartens is not only how many people work there, but also what kind of competence they have. In addition to that, we propose many other restrictions in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2408	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2411	There are many questions I could ask the Council of State, but I will not avoid asking a question about funding. For two and a half years, the framework funding has worked, and we heard the representative of the Central Party admit that it has not worked well enough, and that the department must follow up and make sure it comes in place. Many private kindergartens have got worse in the last two and a half years. Very many of the private kindergartens are small. They do not have the opportunity to wait for the municipalities to calculate and get control of this, and many municipalities do not know how to calculate this either. My question to the Council of State becomes as simple as this: How long will the Council of State sit still and watch that the municipalities do not follow up with proper funding for the private kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2418	I can assure the representative Horne that I am never at rest, and I have already addressed this problem. Before the summer, the Education Directorate will be commissioned to make suggestions on how to do this better. Through the kindergarten reform, it has always been a premise that at the moment we have full coverage, municipalities should be responsible for kindergartens in the same way as they are responsible for school and care for the elderly, and they should be replaced by a grant to the framework. The Bondevik government announced that it would come in 2007, we introduced it from 2011. We put it at risk, precisely because we had to have a better sense of security for us to succeed. But we're not satisfied with how it works – mainly because it's very unpredictable for the private kindergartens how to operate in a year. I have had a good dialogue with the Landsförbund of Private Barnehager on this issue. They've brought me a lot of information. We have cooperated with the Municipal Councils to get this in place, for predictability is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2429	There have been a lot of investigations and samples lately. There has been a thorough job to get a good foundation — on which we politicians can rely — to increase the quality of kindergartens. I think that Kristin Halvorsen has worked like that just to be more concrete and ambitious, and then maybe there's someone else in the government who's slowed down a little bit. I think there's a lot of people who understand. What we are disappointed about is that in this area too, the government is showing a lack of implementation. It is so thin in this communication – on leadership, the role of the controller, on the lift of competences. When you say – after eight years in government and when all the measures from the sector are on the table – that you have to come back with a level of competence, is the Council of State proud of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2437	I think it's so strange to listen to Right in kindergarten discussions. It would be thought that the Right would be the ones who had really gone in for kindergarten development – to get the lowest price possible, to make sure that all children have room. And that's the opposite. The right has been pulled through the kindergarten reform against hair — against hair. Now that they're suddenly going to swing to the big rhetorical heights, I find it fascinating, let me say it like that. As far as kindergartens and staffing standards are concerned, I think it should be noted that there is one area where we are going to have a statutory adult density or standard. It's in kindergarten. We don't have it in school, we don't have it in the care of the elderly – we don't have it in any other welfare areas. This is a great breakthrough for all those who are concerned with kindergartens. To legislate means that we've listened to people other than Ødegaard, that's how important it is with many... [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2444	The number is out. The President does not know whether it is a pediatric school to know the clock, but representatives and state councils should at least be able to relate to the speaking time allocated.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2447	There is a lot I could like to ask the Council of State about. Not least, I would like to stress that when the Council of State is concerned with quality in kindergartens, she will also have to focus a lot on non-discrimination between local and private authorities – not only on percentages, but also on the legislation here. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to a theme that is hardly affected so far in the debate, but on which the Christian People's Party is concerned, namely the open kindergartens. It is very good to see that there is an overall committee that stresses that open kindergartens must be ‘recognised as part of the Norwegian kindergarten offer’ and that they must be ensured ‘driving framework conditions’. How will the Council of State monitor the open kindergartens and ensure viable framework conditions? Many of them experience great uncertainty about funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2454	Open kindergartens are a place — an offer — where parents and children can be in common with other children. It is not a nursery provision in the sense that we are discussing through the Kindergarten Act, with requirements for pedagogical leaders and now also staffing standards, but it is a very important introduction offer for many who later want a kindergarten place, and especially for minority women and children. We strongly encourage the municipalities to have such an offer. I know that many have it, just to introduce kindergarten as a safe place for minority parents to send their children to. But it is not reasonable to regulate the open kindergartens in the same way that we regulate the ordinary nursery provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2459	There's a lot I want to ask the Council of State, but really we should pay tribute to each other. The left was very disagreeable when the Right and Advance Party Town Council in Oslo broke the crew norm, and is very happy that SV is on the team when we are about to reintroduce it. I could have asked the Council of State why she does not oblige all municipalities to set standards, but I really thought I would ask for something else. The maximum price had its clear function: to make kindergartens cheaper. It is now in the process of preventing many municipalities from making kindergartens cheaper for them with the worst of advice. I think it is a very important poverty measure to make sure that it is cheaper for families with poor advice to send their children to kindergarten. It's good for the children, it's good for the families, and it's good for the family economy. The question is: why does the Council not want to lean against the means of making more use of income differentiation in kindergartens around the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2466	First, a little comment on the crew norm in Oslo. The left sits in the City Council of Oslo together with the Right and Advance Party and...
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2471	No, we don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2476	... supports the City Council in Oslo and supports what has happened to the Staff Code. I'm assuming they're at least part of that majority. I think it is very nice that SV pressed the right to re-sign this agreement, because it was part of the agreement on the new Munch Museum. That's the one. The second applies to the maximum price. It is not the maximum price that prevents municipalities from ensuring that they have good and reasonable kindergartens for those who have poor advice. The municipality is obliged to have that. We will ensure that the municipalities are informed more clearly about what is needed to meet that requirement, both in the case of siblings, and in the case of a lower price for poorly advised families.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2483	It's a blatant misunderstanding!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2488	The representative Trine Skei Grande – for a new line.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2491	The left has never sat in the City Council of Oslo together with the Progress Party. They're probably not going to do it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2497	But the right will probably recognize the left. [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2502	The President is in charge of this debate. Those who will have the floor in this Chamber will have the floor. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 10 and 11 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2534	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2543	In November, the government announced that the lower limit of the price adjustment for agricultural property should be raised from 1.5 to 2.5 million. kr. This means that several properties can be sold free of charge, without price control. Now the government is following up with proposals to change the law of nobility and the law of the land. It is a well-known case that the law of no part has been under attack for a long time. The government is now making changes in order to keep the law of nobility and the important role that the law plays in agriculture. Odel rights are restricted from being a relative right to a right for the core family. In addition, it is proposed to simplify the freeing of nobility, which will make it easier for farmers to buy additional land. There will be a great simplification in the law, and the red-greens thus facilitate more purchase and sale of property. I would also like to point out that in the odel circuit that remains after the proposed changes to the odel law, as a general rule, it will have grown up on the property and have a close connection to the property. Many of them have prepared for takeovers, including: through the choice of education. These are factors that help to ensure the stable operation of agricultural properties. We believe that these measures over time will increase the turnover of agricultural properties. In addition, we hope that the changes may lead to fewer conflicts. It is important that the nearest can enjoy a right of nobility and that, with a more remote connection, they should not be able to enter and prevent the sale. The Government also proposes, as mentioned above, to abolish the rules on oat-freedom in the case of the purchase of extra land. This will make it easier and less risky for farmers to buy additional land. There are also very few such cases today, and this will be a simplification, as these matters are often complicated to deal with. The proposal in the cancellation will mean that a farmer who buys additional land no longer risks the land being taken back to the forest. It is today over 40 pst. of the land being leased out, and the government's objectives with the proposals for amendments to the law and the law of the land combined may dampen the growth of the land under rent. Hopefully, the changes will bring greater consistency in the long term between the driver and the owner of the earth. The government's modernisation of the sharing rules in the law on soil is precisely aimed at facilitating farmers' purchase of the land of the rents, such as additional land. In addition, it should be easier to divide from residential and liberal plots – which means that more people can live the good life in the country. This is an important change and modernisation of the soil law. The ban on sharing came at a time when the properties were split up. Now it's a time when you put properties together. Then we have to facilitate it, in line with what the agricultural communication said. Today’s legislation works to prevent the sale of agricultural property in some cases, thus making it difficult to bring new forces into the industry, as well as preventing the free movement of goods from being rationalised in agriculture, thus contributing to the maintenance of a land-based agriculture. The centre party is concerned that we need a strong soil protection to secure the area for further food production. This is important in order to meet the intentions of the agricultural message. Although the government believes it should be easier to disaggregate land, sharing should not conflict with the objective of reducing the degradation of cultivated and arable land. I would therefore like to point out that it is now proposed to strengthen soil protection in the sharing rule, so that consent to sharing cannot be given without consent to redisposal under the soil law § 9, if the application for division relates to a purpose involving the redisposal of cultivated or arable land. Soil protection is one of the most important issues for future generations. Food soil is a scarce resource that needs a strong legal protection to preserve. Today’s legislative proposal is an important measure in this respect. With regard to the amendments to the law on soil, the Central Party supports the Government's proposal to make a flexible split provision, which more opens up discretionary considerations based on local needs. The Government considers that there is still a need for a sharing rule to ensure and pool resources as a basis for agricultural activity for current and future owners. It is prohibited to amend the applicable rule, so that consent to division may be granted in the event of no breach of the interests to be safeguarded by the sharing rule. The centre party is also pleased that the legislative proposal opens up the possibility of sharing out housing and living quarters where the purpose of housing is important. The proposal for amendments is based on the sharing rule serving agricultural interests. The rule of division as a starting point shall not facilitate, for example: the establishment of sports facilities, industry or other non-agricultural activities. In such cases, the Centre Party considers that land-use change must be done through planning according to the Planning and Building Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2577	The Government, in its proposal 128 L for 2012–2013, promotes proposals for amendments to the law on nobility. The proposal is to amend § 8 of the law of nobility so that the odel circuit is restricted. The change will result in the otter circuit covering only the children of the owner with the right to vote and the grandchild of the last owner with the right to vote. Furthermore, it is proposed to repeal Section 31 of the Act in order to remove the right to apply for extinguishment by acquiring additional land for agricultural property. As a consequence of the proposed repeal of Section 31, the Ministry also proposes an amendment to Section 16 of the Act so that this paragraph no longer has a reference to the liberation of nobility. The Ministry does not propose amendment or repeal of Section 30 of the Act. Thus, the principle of public access to the otter liberation and takeover of otter soil is continued. Property rights are one of the oldest legal principles of Norwegian law. Odel law has historical roots all the way back to Viking times. When Norway got its constitution in 1814, the right to vote was also explicitly mentioned in the Basic Law, § 107. In this case, a special protection is granted to the public and a change of constitution is therefore necessary in accordance with established procedures before possible revocation of the law of nobility. Such protection is not provided for any other rights relating to immovable property. It is therefore also clear that changes to the law of nobility must be subject to a careful legal assessment in order to prevent the changes from coming into conflict with the Constitution § 107. An overall committee therefore welcomes the fact that the Ministry has put the question of a restriction on the odelkreis, in accordance with the Constitution § 107, in front of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Justice and Defence for a more detailed assessment. The Committee notes that, after completion of the legal consideration, the Ministry concludes that the noble class shall also include the granddaughter of the last owner of the noble class. The Committee points out that an amendment to the law of nobility must be within the meaning of Section 107 of the Constitution and considers that the proposed amendments are in line with this. A Joint Committee therefore supports the assessments carried out by the Ministry with regard to the Constitution in this case. The minority in the Committee, the representatives of the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, also refer to the legal point made by Professor Thor Falkanger, on behalf of the League of Norway, which comes to the same conclusion with some expressed concerns. A Joint Committee therefore endorses the proposed amendment of Section 8 of the Odel Act. On the other hand, the Committee is divided on the issue of the withdrawal of the right to apply for ostrich relief in the case of the purchase of additional land for agricultural property. The majority, consisting of government parties, supports the proposal to repeal Section 31 of the Act. Given that the otter circle is now restricted to descendants of the grower in the straight-down line, the majority consider that there is reason to believe that the rate of rejection in cases of otter liberation will increase. Although the proposed amendment to Section 12 of the Soil Act could lead to an increase in the number of issues relating to land emancipation, the majority consider that there is little reason to believe that the abolition of the nobility emanation rule would reduce the impact of the modified sharing rule in the Soil Act. Therefore, in view of the low number of no partial liberation cases — and the fact that these matters are very resource-intensive — the majority believe that Section 31 of the Odelslaw should be repealed. The minority, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, do not agree with this assessment. On the contrary, we believe that the proposed amendment to Section 12 of the Soil Act could lead to an increase in the number of extermination cases, and that a loss of the possibility of extermination could then prevent the desired effect of the amendments to Section 12 of the Soil Act. I'm referring here to page 2 of the setting, where it's called: «The Ministry of Foreign Affairs believes that the right to vote may also have certain unfortunate aspects. The right to vote may lead to the acquisition of property by persons who are not associated with the property and the operation of the property. This may have consequences for a good agricultural exploitation of ownership. Odel law may also prevent the entry of property to the hall. This may make it difficult to get fresh forces into the industry, or for a neighbour to buy additional land.’ However, where, in the light of this expressed concern, the Ministry proposes to suspend the right to apply for ostrich relief in the case of the purchase of additional land for agricultural purposes, we believe that the contradiction is obvious. On that basis, the Christian People's Party, together with the Right and the Advance Party, will not support the proposal for the repeal of Paragraph 31 and the amendment of Section 16 of the Law of Goods.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2614	Both of the matters we are dealing with now originate from the agricultural report that Stortinget dealt with last year. The government points there to the need for a more dynamic attitude towards agricultural property conditions in order to ensure recruitment, renewal and easier access to agriculture for people without inheritance, and to ensure that developments are directed towards the ownership of the land by those who run the land. It is important to improve agronomy and to make the necessary investments to achieve the objectives of active agriculture across the country and to increase production. Therefore, both of these legislative changes are important in order to bring in a desired dynamics in the marketing and operation of agricultural property. With regard to the change in soil law in concrete terms, a simpler assessment of split requests is envisaged. In particular, there is a need for the de-allocation of land to be used as additional land and for the de-allocation of land with or without building mass to be used for residential purposes. There's going to be a more flexible split provision that increases municipal space. Personally, I see it as an incentive to optimise production opportunities in agriculture and an important measure to stimulate housing in areas where scattered housing is desirable. I'm glad that there is a broad majority who support the government's proposal, which adds to a flexible sharing provision, and which opens up these discretionary balances based on local needs. The protection of land resources, whether sharing leads to a good operational solution and whether sharing can lead to operational or environmental disadvantages shall be weighed precisely according to local conditions. I think that's great. So to the odel law, the most important change is the narrowing of the odel circuit. It's been a long discussion. In the Workers' Party, many people believe that the law of nobility has actually played its part. Historically, we have seen that the law of nobility can have unfortunate consequences. But I'm pleased that the government is following up the agricultural notification and promoting this proposition on the amendment of the law that involves cutting the edge. It is a very good direction in it and a positive signal outwards about greater opportunities for more renewal within agriculture. So about the repeal of Section 31 on ostrich liberation: I have to say that I was initially negative to remove this legal home, but we have come to the conclusion that there are rational reasons for that. This is a system that is very little used, and a complex process that also requires a lot of resources. So I buy the government's argument that the cost of the plan is disproportionate to the value in use. In addition, the changes we are now making in both the law of the land and the law of the nodule, the need for the liberation of the nodule. All in all, we have two legislative proposals that contribute positively to the renewal of agriculture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2627	The party of progress will vote against the change in the law of no part because the only right is actually to cancel the whole law. I would also like to refer to the proposal of the Progress Party to repeal the Constitution § 107, so that it is possible to abolish the right of nobility and the right of establishment. During the period since the adoption of the Constitution, social conditions have changed significantly, which also requires the repeal of the provision. The situation in Norwegian agriculture has also changed significantly. Agriculture is currently facing very large changes, and the requirements for efficiency and rationalisation will govern the evolution of agriculture in the coming years. In order to achieve the desired development of agriculture, all laws, regulations and administrative provisions which prevent the proper development of agriculture must be abolished. The main contribution of the authorities to a forward-looking trend in agriculture is to contribute to the red tape of the agricultural sector and to the simplification of the legislation setting the framework for industry. In addition, it is also essential to improve the efficiency of the use structure. The technical development of agriculture has led to the fact that the current structure of use, adapted at a different time, is not rational and is not sufficiently profitable, so that there are few operators in the industry who have properties with sufficient profitability to create jobs. The Odel Institute is a significant obstacle to ensuring safe jobs in the agricultural industry. That's why we in the Progress Party believe it's unnatural for us in today's society to have legislation that gives individuals the right to take over property because of kinship. Furthermore, it is not appropriate that the owner of a property should not have the freedom to sell the property to whom he wishes or that professional qualifications should not be decisive for who is to acquire the property. The Odel Institute makes it very difficult for newcomers to establish themselves in the agricultural industry themselves with the necessary professional qualifications, interest in the trade and industry and capital to purchase a property. With today’s no partial legislation, it is practically impossible to purchase an agricultural property in the free market. In the government-appointed Odelslovkommission there was a minority in favour of repealing the Odelslovkommission. In a hearing opinion on the Odelslovkommission’s position with the Ministry of Agriculture, the State Agriculture Administration stated the following: ‘In the light of the experience gained by the SLF in the exercise of the right of attorney and its importance for the exploitation of agricultural resources, we believe that a good number of arguments are in favour of repealing the Institute. Similarly, our experience suggests that there are no arguments for maintaining the odels that are so burdensome that it is expedient to continue the legal institute. The SLF therefore recommends the abolition of the right to vote.’ In the opinion of the proposers, this is a fairly clear recommendation from one of the most important professional bodies in Norwegian agriculture. The State's agricultural management emphasises in its consultation opinion essentially the same views expressed by the Progress Party today. Never before have there been as many agricultural properties as they are now. Never before have there been so few self-employed workers in food production as now. Never before has there been such a small number of decaves on which food is produced, as it is now. And never have there been so many unoccupied farm properties. At the same time, almost 500,000 people in Norway are likely to take over a farm — large or small. We need to do a lot of work to ensure that Norwegian agriculture survives and develops positively in the future. One of the many things that have to and can be done is to lift the ban on division in the law of the land. It must be up to the individual owner of an agricultural property what he or she wants to do with it. If there is a seller and a buyer, and there is agreement on an agreement, the Progress Party believes that this is of course for the best of all. The earth is sold to a new user who can thus strengthen his property and his production capacity and thus have a better financial opportunity to continue as a self-employed person in food production. I take this up with me the proposals of the Progress Party and the proposals of the Progress Party are included in the voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2647	The representative of Torgeir Tåldal has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2650	There are 180 000 agricultural properties in this country. This means that the policies pursued for these are not only of importance to Norwegian agriculture, but also crucial to the development we have had and will have in the countryside, small communities and agglomerations around our cities throughout the country. On the right, it is positive that the government has now realised that the property policy that has been conducted by the government of Stoltenberg has been unfortunate both for Norwegian farmers and for Norwegian farmers. With the changes proposed in the law of nobility and the law of the land, the government has taken a small step in the right direction. However, it must be possible to recall that the government has refused to support proposals for liberalisation on a number of occasions here in the United Kingdom. So when proposals for changes to the law of nobility and the law of the land have been put forward, this happens at the brink of the government's second majority, and after eight years, when the majority government has blocked proposals that would give the positive effects that the government itself plans. The liberalisation of the law-sharing system will facilitate increased housing in the districts, making it easier to divide from land to additional land where parts of the property are sold. This is positive for those who need additional soil, but who are today referred to renting land. It is with wonder that we can observe how little responsibility the sitting government takes for the policy it has pursued. When it is stated in the government's proposition to the Great Government about changes in the law of the earth that practices have been so firmly attached that it is difficult to achieve change through new guidelines, the government should also tell the rest of the story – the story of how, after the red-green government joined, it was tightened up on practice, and how a letter was sent in December 2006 to municipalities and statesmen where the message was opposed to what the government now wants. Right will support the government's proposals for amendments to the law on soil, but we are of the opinion that the government's proposals do not go far enough. There's an open question about how liberalizing the new legislative change actually is. This will depend on the mandate of the control body because the provisions are discretionary. The government's proposal does not provide a good response to the importance it will have for the mandate of the State agricultural authorities as a control and review body of the transfer from statutory assessments to more transparent administrative arrangements. At this point, the matter should be better prepared by the government. It will be of great importance that the overall body is detained in overcoming municipal discretion. As the Right sees it, the horticulture industry is an integral and important part of Norwegian agriculture. We believe that a distinction between greenhouses and operating buildings such as poultry and loaves in terms of re-disposal requirements is artificial, and we therefore believe that the inclusion of greenhouses and other agricultural operating buildings should be non-discriminatory with regard to exemptions from re-disposal under Section 9 of the Land Act. Right-wing support for the proposal to modernise the law on nobility, as proposed by the Right for a number of years. The proposal to restrict the odel circuit is close to the heart of the odel institute. In a note from Professor Thor Falkanger, the importance of Stortinget’s assessment of this change in relation to the Constitutional Act § 107 is highlighted. As the Right sees it, the time and development of agriculture have made it necessary to modernise the law. This change in the right of attorney, which is now adopted, is important because it facilitates the entry of new forces into the industry, and it can prevent the free movement from being impeded by desirable rationalisation and structural changes in order to ensure sustainable agriculture in the future. With regard to the proposal to repeal Section 31 of the Odel Act, which provides the basis for the so-called odel release, this is something that the Right cannot support. The reason for this is that several hearing bodies have pointed out that by removing the possibility of otter liberation, the effect of the change in the law on soil § 12 would be impeded. The rule of non-exemption means that the Ministry may, on application, decide that the holders of the title of an agricultural property lose their right to vote in cases where there is no doubt that the interests of the holders of the right must give way in order to ensure a better operational or social solution. To the extent that the proposed change in the law of division would result in an increased number of applications for glomerular emancipation, a lapse of the possibility of glomerular emancipation could impede the desired effect of liberalisation in the division provision. As a result, the Right will not support the amendment proposed in Section 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2671	In the big news of agricultural and food policy, it has been suggested that we should increase food production in this country. SV is busy strengthening soil protection to ensure food production. We have to avoid land cultivation being built down, but we also have to avoid growing land leaving production. We have to make sure that the food soil is kept in good condition. Case No. 10 which we are dealing with today relates to changes in Section 12 of the Land Law that relate to the sharing of property that is useful or can be used for agriculture or forestry. The purpose is to make it easier to divide from soil to housing and into additional soils. The aim of the proposals is to facilitate rural development and the harmonisation of the structure of ownership and the structure of use. The ground-sharing ban is an important tool to ensure that agricultural land continues as an agricultural area. The changes proposed will allow you to create a more reasonable tool to achieve this. Land rents on a national basis are increasing. That's now 42 pst. of the area under cultivation. This may create unsafe conditions for operation. Translation of extra land can delineate these developments, and maybe reverse it so that we get less land for rent, and that those who are active farmers also have ownership over the agricultural land. The government introduces this amendment to the law so that municipalities can use understanding in matters of redundancy. Attention shall be paid to the concerns of land resources, good operational resolution and operational and environmental conditions. Norway is a country with very varied topography and construction patterns. Therefore, understanding can be the best way to achieve the goals of caring for productive soil and housing in the districts. There are not always formal rules that are the same across the country, which is the best way to achieve the intentions that one has with the law. There is reason to note that this case concerns dissociation and not the right to re-disposal. If the purpose of the division requires the re-disposal of cultivated land, consent to re-disposal pursuant to Section 9 of the Law on Soil must be given. This is important for soil protection. SV sees the draft law as a balanced proposal that takes care of soil protection in a good way. Odelslova has been an important cornerstone of development of Norwegian agriculture. It is a relative's right to ensure that the successors of the grower in a given order shall have preferential rights to ownership. Under the right of nobility, a nobleman may claim nobility if his property is sold out of the family. The thing we're dealing with today is for the restriction of the odel circuit. The proposal implies that only the owners of the right and the grandchildren of the last owner of the right shall have the right to vote. In some cases, the right to vote may prevent the sale of property and prevent new forces from entering the industry. Persons without ownership and operation can take over. It may have consequences for the agricultural exploitation of the property. The purpose of the change we are dealing with here today is to make it easier for people interested in taking over and running property. At the same time, we want to continue the positive aspects of the right to vote. It ensures the operation of ownership and the continuation of tradition and competence. The case has been widely heard, and the proposals have been widely supported. It is important to have good processes around things that have such strong traditions and are anchored in the Constitution. The proposed amendments are, in the SV's opinion, a balanced assessment of the various concerns that need to be addressed. SV supports proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2703	Today, the Stortinge is dealing with two legislative proposals. One concerns changes to the Soil Act § 12 concerning the divisional provision. The second proposal concerns amendments to the law of nobility, more specifically restrictions on the nobility circle and the abolition of the nobility-freezing of additional soils. Provisions on the division of agricultural property were introduced into the Land Act in 1955 and continued in the 1995 current Land Law. Prior to the introduction of the split provision, the extent of redundancies was large. Among other things, farming was often divided in connection with inheritance settlement so that the sibling could get each part of the farm. A ban on the sharing of agricultural property was therefore introduced in 1955 and had to be exempted in order to be able to share. At the time, the division provision had an exception for the division of land of up to 2 decks. However, it turned out that such redundancies were also large in scope and that the disbursements caused disadvantages to the agricultural holding. Thus, in 1965 an amendment was adopted so that the provision from then on also covered such land disbursements. History has shown us that it is necessary to control the sharing of agricultural property. This provision contributes to securing and pooling resources as a basis for agricultural operations for owners today and in the future. Odelsrecht has, on its side, over a thousand years of history in Norway. It is said that when Harald Haarfachre gathered Norway in the 800s, ‘he took the majority from the farmers’. Odelsrecht was later legalized, first in the landscape laws at the end of the 1000s, from 1274 in Magnus Lagbøtes Landslaw, then in the Christian IVs and Christian Vs Norske Law of 1604 and 1687. Odelsrecht was to secure a self-owned peasantry, and it was to prevent buying up to churches and great men. We have no no nobility in Norway. Odelsrecht has helped to secure the free Norwegian peasant, and it has served the country and the people well. Many have wanted to abolish the right to vote. In 1811 it was decided that the right to vote would apply only if it had the best right to vote. In response to the Regulation, the law of the land was protected by the Constitution in 1814. Paragraph 107 of the Constitution prohibits the abolition of the right of nobility, but leaves to Stortinget detailed conditions «to the maximum benefit of the State and the Gavn for Landalmuen». This allows the right to vote to be adapted to changes in society. Sometimes you have to change to keep going. This happened, for example: in connection with the emergence of industry at the beginning of the 1900s. The so-called Freedom Act gave access to the possibility of being declared wholly free for the benefit of industry. Another example of changes in the Odel Act to preserve and develop is gender equality. Women now have the same nobility as men — which is a matter of course. Brothers are no longer in front of sisters. This has had a major impact on women’s opportunities in Norwegian agriculture. The changes proposed here are also the result of societal changes. Therefore, it is necessary to update the law in line with society today. The current divisional provisions of the Law have remained more or less unchanged from 1955 until now. During this period, agriculture and society have changed. I believe that the sharing provision prevents the sale of additional land and the disposal of uninhabited and built-up land that can be used for residential purposes. The proposed amendment aims at correcting this. The law currently has certain conditions which must be fulfilled in order to be able to consent to division. The proposal replaces these conditions by a rule allowing the municipality to approve a divisional application on the basis of a purely discretionary assessment. The assessment shall be based on agricultural considerations and shall be based on the wording of the law’s intended purpose. The proposal opens up practices adapted to local variations. The proposal for changes to the law on soil facilitates better adaptations on the ownership side of Norwegian agriculture. The proposals for amendments to the law of nobility are, first of all, a restriction on the oeuvre of children and grandchildren. It makes it more transparent. The second amendment is that we remove the possibility of globular emancipation. What we do with the law of no part is to create a simpler and more comprehensible law of no part, where those who are to have no partial right are given a stronger right. Through this, we can ensure continued diversity of ownership of Norwegian agriculture and ensure that traditions can be passed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2739	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2742	There are many strange rules and laws in agriculture. You have the ostrich law that we're doing now, and we also have the law of the land. Lifting the ban on division in the law of the land will be very good for the farmers, because then the farmer will have to decide for himself his own property. At least that is what we in the Progress Party believe is important – property rights are very strong with us. My question to the Council of State is: When will the Council of State participate in giving the Norwegian farmer full ownership of his own land?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2751	Property rights are particularly important for the development of a society and property security is a prerequisite for economic development. It is also a prerequisite for a living democracy. That's why we have a strong ownership right. With a right, it also follows obligations. But when we're going to have a property policy for agriculture, we're concerned that if we release this completely freely, it'll be socially unfavorable over time. You always have to weigh different considerations against each other. But the liberalisation we now make of the law of the earth will make it easier to sell and disdistribute land, and to sell land to those who run the earth. So we mean it's a community-based project that gives freedom to the individual farmer, and that the change we're now making, in sum, will serve both the farmer and society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2758	At the height of the government's second growth period, we see a turnaround in agricultural policy in these two legislative proposals. We see an embellishment of the divisional provisions in the Earth's Law, and we see a restriction of the odel circuit. What is the Minister of Agriculture now seeing, as not the Minister of Agriculture at the time saw in 2006?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2767	The changes we are now making in both the law of the land and the law of the land are major changes. As I was in my main post, the same law has been in force since the 1950s in relation to the law of the land. Neither did the Bondevik II government change to remove the ban on sharing. But the Center Party and the government have a very practical relationship with the Earth Act. We have to look at, and consider, what we mean is the demands of time and the challenges of time. Now we thought that the time was ripe for a change to the Soil Act §12 – to facilitate more to combine property if necessary, and to facilitate more to dissociate land in order to create development. When we thought that this was necessary and correct, we make that change – and implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2774	Today, the government is promoting proposals for amendments to the law on soil to facilitate the purchase of additional land for active farmers. It supports the Christian People's Party, but at the same time we think it must be quite obvious that the change in the law will lead to an increase in the number of such purchases and sales. We are very surprised that a government in which the centre party sits will at the same time remove the possibility of gloat liberation. So I wonder if the council could use 1 minute to explain how he looks at this from his point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2781	I'm happy to, and if the president permits it, I like to use 2 too, but I guess I won't have time for it. Point 1: I hope and believe that the change in Section 12 of the Soil Act will lead to increased sales of property in Norway, and we see it as desirable that as many as possible of those who run the land own the land. We add up to it, and we hope and believe that this can also stimulate that you can disaggregate plots that won't conflict with other agricultural considerations. Point 2 applies to the otter release. We're constraining the odel circuit. Fewer people have the right to vote, but those who have the right to vote will be strengthened. The child of the one who is a farmer will have his or her right of nobility strengthened – as long as we do not have the opportunity for nobility liberation. We think that's right. Now it becomes a simple and transparent law, which applies to children and grandchildren. We're removing the possibility of globular liberation, but we believe that in sum that's right. In the period 2005-2011, I have been informed that there is a little more than 2000 full-grown land covered by this, so in practice it has almost been a sleeping provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2792	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2797	Soil law is a nutrition law; it is the law on the use of land in the meaning of ‘land’, i.e. soil, forest and land. Under this Act, a basis for the commercial operation of soil, forest and land shall be established. It's a historically important law. The first one came on April 2, 1917, so it's almost 100 years old. The law has had different purposes over time. The law of 1928 was intended to facilitate the independent use of the housekeepers and to allow us to use the buildings – i.e. several farms. The 1955 Law was a law on structuralisation, where it was designed to bring together farms. The most important thing then was both the ban on sharing property and that one would merge the entire farm. There has been reasonable agreement between the owner and the user for a long time. But it's natural that one gets more renting gradually. At the same time, I would like to stress that having rent is a positive thing. It is positive that older owners lease land to younger owners who have greater power to operate larger areas. It's part of the dynamic evolution of any generation. But when there is so much rent today, it is naturally linked to the fact that today there is a large farm, which has been running for nearly 1,000 years – we see that on the names of farms – which are being put into operation, at the owner's expense, because it is not economically profitable. I would say that there is an increasing imbalance between ownership and renting of land. It will continue as long as you don't have a necessary payment for the plant production that happens on the land. It will not be possible to achieve a better match between owning versus renting than today, if you do not get increased payment for this. That's the core of that question. With regard to the change in the Soil Act § 12 today, it is good. It now allows you to collect and secure the land resources without merging the entire farm. It is important that the decisions taken here are taken to give a decent and varied structure of use – as it is called – and that sharing leads to a good operational economic solution, i.e. that one places emphasis on arrondance. Through this tool, society can ensure that you do not get transport over long distances, you combine areas that naturally relate to each other. It's important that you get that premise very clearly into the handling of matters, so that you get a natural collection of property. It's natural based on the situation we're facing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2814	The Christian People's Party is pleased that the government is now promoting proposals for changes to the soil law, which will make it easier for active economic operators in agriculture to obtain additional land. In the last decade, Norwegian agriculture has been through a comprehensive rationalisation process. In the case of roughage-based cattle in particular, the trend has been towards fewer and larger uses with significantly higher levels of production per use and per hour of work. This includes, among other things: as a result of the need for more and more land remaining in agriculture for the production of feed. However, due to the strict provisions of Section 12 of the Soil Act, it has been difficult for many to obtain additional land. Today’s legal text states that de-allocation of agricultural land can only be carried out if ‘social interests of high importance speak for it’, or division is sound from the point of view of the return of ownership’. In reality, these rigid provisions have made it almost impossible to sell agricultural land as additional land for neighboring use. Thus, in areas of roughage-based cattle farming, the situation is many places where former farmers who have left the farm are renting out the land to the few who continue to operate and must operate on an ever-increasing scale in order to obtain profitability. It in turn has unintended negative effects: ever larger and heavier machines pack the soil, while measures to maintain drainage and tillage are not prioritised. So the result is a lot of places where yield per unit area goes down over time. In the light of the above, the Christian People's Party will support the proposal for a new third paragraph of Section 12 of the Earth Act. The change will allow for municipal discretion based on what serves the interests of agriculture. It will focus on good arrondering and that active farmers can own land instead of renting it. Instead of today's ban line, we will have a community practice that actively favours passive ownership of agriculture, and thus also increased incentives for the processing of cultivated land. On the other hand, we will take a clear distance from the government's proposal for the new fourth paragraph of Section 12 of the Soil Act. It is clear that consideration of a varied agricultural structure can be set aside if the division will take account of the settlement. Every year in the last 20 years, some 16 000 food soil targets have been built in Norway. In 2011, 6 000 targets of cultivated land were redispatched. In view of the rapid rate of loss of cultivated and arable land in Norway, we cannot support a change in the law that, in our opinion, gives Norwegian municipalities a blank mandate to re-disposal food land for housing purposes. We believe that the densification and efficient use of land already regulated for dwellings is clearly preferable to scattered settlements on redisposed agricultural land. On this basis, the Christian People's Party will not support the proposal for the new Section 12 fourth paragraph of the Earth Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2835	It's almost sad that there's no more in the hall when we're going to change a law with such a long history. With the risk of being wrong, I don't think we'll find any other law with such a long history. The history of law is the best argument to keep it. The Odel Act is one of the reasons why we just have the diverse ownership that we have today, which has contributed to our being a quite equal society. It is of the good, and it has contributed to fewer conflicts and larger communities in our country. So the best argument of the law is the story. As a good conservative, you change to preserve. Then I notice that the party that calls itself conservative is not conservative in this matter either. So over to the law of the earth and the debate about it, which is interesting to sit and listen to. In addition to the dimension that Per Olaf Lundtegen took up in terms of economics, which I believe is the main reason for increased land rent, is that when my grandfather – to take my own property – drove the farm, he had a tiny small tractor, my grandfather had a horse. Now you have a large tractor, and within the milk production you have a milk robot. There has been a tremendous technological development. This means that the property that was a real estate 30–40 years ago, today, cannot give livelihood to a farmer. Therefore, there is a need to change, open up to property changes that are consistent with the changes seen in technological development. That's what we're doing now in Section 12 of the Soil Act. There's one dimension, but a very important dimension is just the huge technological changes we've seen in Norwegian agriculture in recent years, technological changes that have also contributed to a very more efficient way, where in the milk sector we're now almost seeing a revolution because of the milk robot coming in. In addition to the agricultural policy dimension, which is very important, it's a residential policy dimension of the change we're making now. One of the largest resources in Norwegian towns is that you have a lot of land. Using that resource for housing, other types of land, other ways of living, is of good. Therefore, we also need a law on soil that stimulates the possibility of being easily dislodged, easy to get a different type of land if you want to live elsewhere than in a construction site or in a housing centre – that you have a variety of opportunities for the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2849	I thought I would take the floor in this matter, I too. I agree that this is a very important matter. Both the legislative proposals that lie here are important for Norwegian agriculture. Owning land, owning a piece of our country, should involve both rights and obligations. It is a great responsibility to manage soil and forest for the benefit of future generations. Therefore, it is also important that property policy be gradually renewed and updated in order to respond to the challenges posed by social development. Property laws, in addition to facilitating efficient and sustainable production, shall facilitate – as the Council of State has now said – the objective of scattered housing, of course they shall. The representative of Torgeir Dahl asks why the government is now presenting this proposal. Let me say so that I recommend reading Message to Torgeira Dahl – if he has not done so. Paragraph 9 for 2011–2012. There's a lot of good learning in it, and there's a good reason why you're making the proposal. There are changes in social developments that make it necessary to do so, and it makes sense as it has now been presented by the government. The changes in the law of the land give greater local discretion and discretionary power according to local needs. The fact that the municipalities themselves have to decide on how to apply the housing principle in their area, I believe that there is a wise and necessary adjustment of the law, because there are very different issues and needs around the country. Both the suspension and the submissions by the representatives of the Right and the Progressive Party clearly show that these parties do not recognise that the property laws have given us a broad and diverse agriculture, which balances both the needs for long-term and sustainable resource management and food production and the need for the commercial exploitation of the same resources, which in turn will provide the basis for income and housing. Property law is a prerequisite for a varied property structure, and thus ownership as an opportunity for the many, not a right for the few. As stated, Norway has a different property structure than many other countries, where property has been divided into few hands, and has been more subject to speculation and free movement. The size of the utility units is relatively small in this country, and there are many properties and many owners – a quality that we still have to take care of. Therefore, I would like to stress that, like other laws, it is necessary to amend and update the property laws as well. However, removing the prohibition of sharing under cover of giving landowners greater power over their property means, in practice, that the conditions for food production in Norway are weakened and that land resources can no longer be managed for the benefit of society. Since the issue of changes in the law of nobility and changes in the law of the land is being debated at the same time, I support the changes proposed in the law of nobility.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2870	The Odel Act is a law of private law in contrast to the law of the land and the law of the concession. It's very important. It's over 1,000 years old, it's enshrined in the Constitution § 107, and I want to characterize it as a strong value conservative law. It supports long-term planning and operation and provides stability. It is the most important law that has ensured a sea-going farmland in Norway, and it is the most important law that has ensured that we have different property relationships with areas in Norway versus beyond the south. It is so essential that it has infected our attitude to own houses and apartments, so that there has been a broad understanding to ensure that every man and woman with reasonable opportunities should be able to obtain their own apartment. It's in the same tradition. This is incredibly significant in terms of the distribution of power. If you own your dwelling, if you own your property, you have power. When many are in that situation, we distribute power to the many. When there are few who own, there will be great power on the few. That's why the odelslaw is incredibly important. The Odel tradition allows you to invest in property. Suffering if it is not profitable today, you know that those who are noble can enjoy your investments under new and better conditions. You can invest in spite of the policy, in the hope that something will get better. As far as the obelisk is concerned, Professor Falkanger has assessed it and said that it is apprehensive near the heart of the odel institute, which is said to be the case. At the same time, Falkanger says that at the end of the seventh, it is a political assessment of what is according to, or contrary to, the Constitution § 107. I agree with that. In my opinion, one should not tighten the odel circuit, as was done. In the situation we're in now, with more and more lifetimes, there are a lot of people who have a close connection with their grandparents, through the growth and training that it is here, and it should be natural that they still have the right to nobility. That's why I disagree about tightening up the odel circuit. In the case of the ostrich liberation of property sold to additional land, § 31, it has created so many conflicts and legal cases that I very much agree that it is removed. It'll strengthen the Odel Institute and make things easier on that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2885	I notice that both the former and the present Minister of Agriculture have a small visit to the value-conservative Right Party. We're happy to take that challenge. My and Right points are that in 2006 we saw a tightening of the practice when it came to sharing. In 2006, there was a very clear signal that it was going to be intensified here. So a few years went by, and you saw a need to have a broader perspective on that matter. We support that development, we support the new perspective, in the same way that we already did in 2006 so that this would be a wise and correct approach. So we think it's nice that the government at that point comes after the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2894	The representative Per Olaf Lundtigen has had the word twice before, and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2897	The game Right wants to take away the whole odels law. They want to reduce the profitability of agricultural work. I want to say it so clearly from this pulpit: we have no less conservative party in this room than the Right. The right has now cultivated the extreme value-radical direction, and is in its tradition where there is financial capital and those who want to earn property without using it, which is to be premiered. I think it's strong. I know many people who still believe that the Right is a value conservative party. But in the very odd question, the right hand side shows where they stand, as the clearest value radical party we have in this room. In every respect, one adds that perpetuating the traditions that lie here, in such a way that you will have the income of working with soil and plants, will be neglected. It is strong to experience, but unfortunately: there we are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2906	I will not take many minutes, but such a manifest error cannot be denied. The right has never proposed removing the odel law. The right has proposed to remove the law of nobility from the Constitution, thus getting a regular debate about the law of nobility as a tool. It's something completely different. I just had to correct the obvious error that Lundteg had in his post.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2915	It is liberating to hear the right representation of the representative Lundtigen as to whether or not the Right is a value conservative lot. If you're a value-conservative party, why in the whole world should you remove the law on the right of attorney and the right of appeal from the Constitution? The Constitution is, of course, the basic document for the law we have, and the purpose of the Constitution is a conservative approach to social governance, precisely by changing over two periods, predictability over two periods, and a two-thirds majority in the Chamber. It is a fundamental value conservative approach to governance of a society. Changes shall not occur abruptly and randomly. There must be predictability, and there must be security for people and for land. The most valuable document we have, which is at least the Workers' Party, the Centre Party, the SV and the Christian People's Party end up about, is the Constitution – and, as far as soil issues are concerned, the Constitution § 107 – while the party that likes to call itself value conservative, does not want to have such predictability.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2924	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2938	The first speaker is Mrs Nybakk, who is the rapporteur on the matter. Marit Nybakk has a speaking time of up to 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2941	I don't think the President-in-Office will spend 30 minutes. As usual, the Ombudsman has provided a very robust report on the work of the year that has passed. I will only comment on two of the areas mentioned, but those areas are of importance to the case rapporteur. The first one is about the veterans. So we are talking about all those who have been in foreign service – all the way back to the German Brigade after World War II, through our missions in Congo, Lebanon, Chad, the Balkans and, of course, Afghanistan. It's veterans who, for the most part, have quite a nice and robust life, but for others, it can be a lot to work with. The Committee has registered that the veterans have been at the centre of their daily activities in 2012 – for another year. I have registered that the health of the defense has carried out investigations into the personnel who have served in foreign operations, which at least I find quite reassuring. It's done quite a lot for the veterans over the last 10–15 years. I find reason to underline that as well. That doesn't mean it won't be done anymore. These are men and women who have made a strong and good effort for Norway's freedom and for the international community, for the UN, for NATO, and we should respect that. We have said in the statement that it is important that the veterans do not have to wait unnecessarily long for the State pension fund to complete their applications. I would also like to point out that the civil servants' organisations have taken this up by name, and I expect that it will also be followed up by the Ministry of Defence. I would also like to point out that last year – about a year ago, it was probably 8 May – in the rise of the Stortinget, there was a memory record of all the veterans who have given their lives in foreign service. The second point that I consider to be relevant to the Ombudsman's annual report is what I have taken up at every crossroad here, and that is the situation of women in defence. In the class struggle on June 3rd we can read that women are bullied out of the defense – a little diabolical, of course, but still. Many experience sexual harassment. Let me add that it's all about everything from direct harassment via sling notes to pinup pictures on the walls in common living rooms, which in many ways is an unculture that still exists in parts of the Defense – let me add it. It is also the case that a macho culture is still struggling, and there are problems with physical framework conditions, i.e. facilities for girls. All these things taken into account, however, say that the girls who do first-time work experience the work as meaningful, yes actually more meaningful than the boys do — still according to the denominator. Women also believe to be superior to men that the skills acquired in the defence during this period of initial service can be useful after the end of the service. Let me add that the defense also needs the skills of good girls, and then you have to be willing to look at both culture, facilities and other framework conditions so that the girls can be in Defense. I might experience that is one of the challenges that is still ahead of us. We've had session duty for girls for a while. We have experienced that there are almost as many girls entering the Defense, who go out – that is, command – and that some of this culture has been difficult to capture in the Defence. We have had a session duty and will also be given protection obligations that are gender-neutral. UN Resolution 1325, on women, peace and security, deals not only with violence against women in war, but also with women in the building of peace. The resolution also calls on the Member States to bring women into the national defences of the Member States, including those of the United Nations. Because in UN missions and in other international operations, only women can speak to women, assist women in refugee camps in Chad, follow girls to school in Afghanistan – and that is not just the two countries we are talking about. I want to show that there are other parts of the world that are also at stake, where one can also find parts of such a culture and religion. Then I think that when the girls think they get a lot out of the defense, it's also important that the higher proportion of women at the same time is a means of delivering better quality. If the Defense can choose equally among girls and boys in terms of protection obligations, we will be much better able to ensure the Defence necessary and relevant competence. Today, we have an intervention defense that makes a lot of demands on who goes into the organization, and here it is evenly distributed between the two sexes. I also believe that when we introduce – there are not so many days until it is adopted, as far as I know – a gender-neutral duty of protection, it may also happen that the defence, which is supposed to defend Norwegian values, will eventually reflect the same values in its culture. It is basically only several girls – or a larger proportion of women – in the defence that can produce and that can ensure a better working environment and better framework conditions. I have basically recorded that the resistance to female protection has ceased, except for those who believe that there is not even room for all the boys, because at least we don't need the girls. I would like to ask if someone would use that argument with respect to limited liability companies, because there are so many men who want to enter, we don't need women. I suppose that is the end of the debate. Equality is about rights and obligations, and it is also important that, when we are going to move on from there, we make a effort to improve the framework conditions for girls in the Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e2975	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the matter be referred to the Court of Justice. 13 to 16 are treated as a whole. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3024	Let me start by pinking the Civilobodsman for the effort. I see he's there. It's good work, and I hope that today's debate and decision can give civil society greater opportunities to work even better after that debate and the decisions that will be taken today and later in the session. It will turn out that there are two things in which there is a little bit of disunity. The only one will probably come back to the committee leader, and that applies to the deadline for appeal. The second is the proposal on which the Right does not agree and which goes on separate messages. The reasons why the Committee would like to have separate messages include: that the EOS selection has this. It gives you an opportunity to do special things if you want the Storting to discuss them. In addition, it was also very clear in the 50th anniversary of civil society that there is a need to make civil society more familiar in Norway. However, there is still an increase in the number of complaints to civil society, so it should not be necessary to make it known when there are so many complaints – and the number of complaints is just a path. The Committee is unambiguous and would like to be very clear that those who need to assess the validity of a management decision by an unhealthy institution and independent body will have it. That's where the civil environment plays a role for us, which is important for democracy. Nav is a replay of the civil housing system. It's not as loose either – as we say in Stavanger – because there's a lot of people going into Nav in some way, and there's a lot of different perspectives being taken up in Nav. This must mean that there are several complaints there. Nevertheless, as the case-speaker of this case, I would like to make it clear – the Committee has been in previous cases as well – that Nav has to tighten up. They need to improve, and they need to make use of the possibilities to get even better when it comes to the criticism that is constantly coming from individuals, but also from the National Audit Office. Then the committee is very clear – and that is also very good – that if civil society recommends someone to go to court, it is such that they should be sure that they do not have to cover the costs of the case themselves. This should be clearly stated by the government. But today, a joint committee is clear that that is the case, the state will cover the bill if the civil society wants to go to court. The Committee then endorses a proposal from the Progress Party that would allow one to act as a helper in legal proceedings. It's a very sensible proposal, I think, because it leads to that civil society, which has knowledge in very many areas of the matter in question, will be able to help with the right information in the legal proceedings. It is wise for a single committee to be consulted, and we have also stated in the past that we are in favour of this, in the context of the examination of the annual communication to civil society. But now it is established by this proposal from the Progress Party. Then the committee is in the midst of a problem that I think civil society is very worrying about, and that's how to avoid spending time on groundless matters all the time. It's possible to close things out that you don't necessarily have to spend so much time on -- it's the committee's busy -- so that you can really spend time on important things, maybe especially now that you get the opportunity to come up with special messages, and then focus on a larger area that is interesting for Parliament to discuss. There is a news that one will adopt in the form of law later, which relates to torture and the ratification by the government of the UN Additional Protocol against Torture and other brutal inhumane treatment. It provides the civil environment with many other areas of work, such as: to seek out closed institutions, prisons, closed asylum facilities and others with direct inspection and to ensure that Norway adheres to human rights. I think that's going to be an exciting job for the community, and I think he'll be happy to catch up. Even if there were others who would like that function, it was like that. We do not accept it today, but we will come back to it later in the session. But that possibility is now opening up to civil society. Finally, there is a comprehensive Committee of Control and Constitutional Affairs that is pleased with the work being done. We want to be clear that it is an important democratic element that we have through civil society. I am pleased to note that there is a good job being done, but that we are now giving new opportunities both for people to become acquainted with the civil environment and for one to get more people to use it in democratic Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3043	It is, as we can see, essentially a unanimous attitude that the Stortinget is invited to deal with at this point today. After all, the rapporteur has expressed all the main points of view that emerge in the setting, and I agree with that. Just a few additional considerations from my side, as I see it: the Civil Ombudsman as a civil officer and the Civil Ombudsman personally, who is also present, as the Advocate-General said, should know that the Storting really appreciates what his office is doing. The majority has these three bodies, the National Audit Office, the EOS and the Civil Ombudsman, as their tools to the administration. The work of the Civil Ombudsman is very important because it takes care of the role of the individual. I think it's right to say that because of the Civil Ombudsman's profile, order and action, we're dropping a lot of cases in the courts. It's very good that it can be solved in a way other than that individuals have to go to the courts to get their cases settled. Of course, it still happens, but there is reason to stress, as a joint committee does, that the civil ombudsman's office plays an important role in terms of the legal certainty of society and its citizens. So there's an increasing number of complaints. There is no reason to worry about this, as the rapporteur has also said. On the contrary, I would say it's good. It is good that the people are conscious of their rights, that they address their doubts and complaints with the Civil Ombudsman in a relevant way, so that we can clearly identify the weaknesses and difficulties that we also have in the administration. Although this has already been said on the part of the rapporteur, I would like to stress that there are people who have to be told to tighten up again from the Parliament's pulpit, and this is particularly the case with Nav. It's quite obvious that we're in the situation that there's still a lot to go on, like at least I'm reading it all. That's why I'm stressing this as well. That's the government I represent here in this house, which of course has established the Nav system. We have the so-called parliamentary responsibility, but yet this is also about the actual handling of the individual in the system. It points out the Civil Ombudsman in a good way and deals with them. It's good that he does it, and I emphasize it my way. That may have been said on the part of the rapporteur, but in all of this it is necessary to say that the administration is good. The Norwegian administration is good. It's not that we're sitting with a government that we can characterize as a challenge for the Storting, it's the opposite. It is also clear from the Civil Ombudsman's report that we all have a good administration that ensures the legal certainty and the best interests of individuals, in order to use such words. It is good to read, and there is reason to trust it when it was written in the way it was written. The last thing I want to comment on is this disagreement with the bill. There I would just like to state that I agree with what the rapporteur said. I just want to add that argument, so that's also said from here, that the idea is, of course, to strengthen the position of the Civil Ombudsman, so that the Civil Ombudsman can come to us, that is to say to the Storting, with the things, individual things, that he finds the basis for coming. I'm not going to say that the more things we get, the better it is, but I'll say from here that it's good if there's such things that can be branded and what I'll call signal cases, and that can be handled by Storting in such a way that it sets a standard in other contexts. I have at least gone into that bill with the idea that it should also have the intention that we can get some signal cases here in this room that can highlight the Storting's attitude to completely specific cases and more limited questions than those we get on a general basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3056	First, let me thank the rapporteur, who, at the end of this great period, has really got an increased workload to be the rapporteur on matters relating to the Civil Ombudsman. We have now had a plethora of proposals about the Civil Ombudsman, which I think is very good, bearing in mind that on several occasions this committee has been very concerned that it will help to make the important work of the Civil Ombudsman visible, in an even better way. I would also like to thank the Committee not only for its willingness to find solutions along the way in these processes, but also because, on two occasions in particular, the Committee has gathered on important proposals to strengthen the role of the Civil Ombudsman vis-à-vis the administration. I'll make this post relatively short. With regard to the Ombudsman’s annual report, the Committee of the Regions largely shares the view expressed by the Advocate-General in an excellent manner from the Chair, with one exception. That exception is the rapporteur’s general misnomer on the Civil Ombudsman, where he consistently says ‘the Civil Service Ombudsman’. The rapporteur is, of course, well aware that there is no such thing as the «civil ombudsman» – that is, the «civil ombudsman» is the right name. I think it is important to stress that, since the rapporteur was so gallantly executed from this pulpit. The progress party is also very pleased that the Civil Ombudsman can now send a separate message to the Stortinget when he finds it appropriate. The limit has been too high in the past. A significantly more cautious assessment has now been made, and it is up to the Civil Ombudsman himself to see when there is a basis for sending a specific message to the Stortinget. It may also help to raise awareness of the important work of the Civil Ombudsman. It lowers the threshold and is consistent with the development of the use of specific messages from, inter alia: The EOS Committee. So a short walk into Document 8:122 S, a proposal for a representative where the Progress Party has proposed to strengthen the role of the Civil Ombudsman towards the administration by implementing two acts. One is to ensure that the State does not charge costs covered in cases where the Civil Service Ombudsman recommends the action and where the complaint is lost, and the other is to ensure the Civil Service Ombudsman's ability to act as an auxiliary intervener in such proceedings. We are very pleased that the whole Storting ends up with both of these proposals – one through a unanimous remark and the other through a concrete decision. There will be a significant strengthening of the rights of complainants in the cases where appeals are recommended. It will also enable the Civil Ombudsman to follow such cases until the final judgment has been given. I would like to make it clear that the Stortinget is now unanimous in the form of a comment asking the government to implement the practice of surrendering costs in cases where the Civil Ombudsman recommends an action. It also unanimously wrote to the Committee in the context of the 2009 Annual Communication, but the amendment has still not been implemented. This has led to a unanimous committee also criticising the government for not having implemented this change. I would like to have the State Council's assurance from this speaker both that the change will be implemented as quickly as possible, and preferably also an indication of a time when the change can take effect. It is not sustainable for a unanimous Supervisory and Constitutional Committee to make a clear notification to the government that has been ignored since the 2009 Annual Report was addressed. Finally, I would like to comment briefly on the background to the proposal to extend the time limit for appeal to the Civil Ombudsman. It's one of the proposals we've been left alone for. The background to the proposal is simply that, after a long, hard, tough and very psychologically demanding fight against management, many do not feel that they have the power to take the matter further, because the fight against the unimaginable bureaucracy may seem almost impossible to win. Those that apply will often take more than 12 months to gather new power to start a new round. I am a little surprised that the Progress Party stands alone on this issue, but notes that the majority believes that some of this can be compensated by making the complaint to the Civil Ombudsman better known. There is clearly a point, but no real argument against an extended appeal deadline. This will not lead to a large or significant increase in the amount of the case to the Civil Ombudsman, nor is it sufficient for the Civil Ombudsman to be able to take the complaint in exceptional cases despite the limitation period. It happens in very few things. Overall, however, I would like to stress that this is a good day for the citizens of the country. The Civil Ombudsman system is strengthened on important points, and the Progress Party is very pleased with the impact we have had on several of these areas through the treatment of the Storting. Finally, I will address the proposal by the Progress Party on an extended appeal period for complaints to the Civil Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3079	The representative of Anders Anundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to – the proposal in case No. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3082	Just a few brief comments on the Civil Ombudsman’s notice for the year 2012. I would like to join the rapporteur's descriptions, descriptions showing that the Civil Ombudsman and his office are doing a good job. What is the central task of the Civil Ombudsman is to assist people, many times people who can't do business, because they don't have the financial ability to safeguard their interests. Therefore, it is essential that the Civil Ombudsman act in such a way that one has an alert eye on those who may in many cases be characterised as weaker in asserting his interests. There are two points I want to make that I think shows this from the Civil Ombudsman's announcement for the year 2012. The first is the proposal for changes to the Administrative Act, digital communication as a general rule, where the question is whether to change the Administrative Act so that digital communication is the general rule for communication between administration and citizens. The civil officer said in his hearing that it is: ‘a decisive condition for any amendment to the law that the individual citizen is provided with sufficient and individual information about the scheme, including what is considered to replace an consent to receive information only electronically from the public and how to reserve oneself against such a scheme’. It is essential what the Civil Ombudsman says, that one should not get out worse than today through this amendment to the Administrative Act. The second is the section that goes in the Civil Ombudsman and the language. The Civil Ombudsman is a leader in his field, and we know that the target law, which regulates the relationship between nynorrhea and bookkeeping, does not apply to the Civil Ombudsman. It is then very gratifying that the Civil Ombudsman still sees it as right and important to comply with the law. It is very good that the Civil Ombudsman shows that attitude towards both our Norwegian targets.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3096	I got a direct question from the chairman of the committee that I think it's right and important to answer. But before I do that, I am glad that an overall committee believes that the figures from the Annual Report suggest that the administration in Norway is doing a good job and is dealing with enquiries from the citizens in line with the applicable guidelines. Nevertheless, the annual report gives the administration useful reminders that there is room for improvement. This applies both to the improvement of the system and to the fact that individual matters could and should have been handled in another way. By having the whole administration as its function and a wide range of individual cases, the Ombudsman can help to see the activities of each administrative boundary in a wider context, and that is useful. The specific issue has a longer history, and the annual report shows that the Civil Ombudsman has asked the Ministry of Justice and Defence to add to the circular on free legal aid that the costs incurred by the counterparty should be covered by the Legal Aid Act when the Ombudsman has recommended an action. Back in 2011: In view of the fact that the Stortinget had previously emphasised that the State would cover the costs of a party’s actions against the counterparty in cases where the Ombudsman has recommended an action by giving up the claim, this case has not had the follow-up from the department it should have had for various reasons. It also did so that when the Stortinget examined the annual report of the Civil Ombudsman for 2011, the Committee asked the Ombudsman to propose any action in this area. We then received the Ombudsman's proposal in February this year. He asks the Ministry to consider an addendum to the circular on free legal aid stating that the costs incurred by the counterparty are to be covered by the Law on Legal Aid in cases where legal proceedings are recommended by the Ombudsman. The Ministry has the Ombudsman’s proposal for consideration, and he is briefed that we aim to take a decision before the summer, so that new guidelines on matters where the Ombudsman has recommended legal proceedings can enter into force after the summer. A private party has a right to free trial following a special provision of the Legal Aid Act in cases where the Civil Ombudsman has recommended an action. Under the Law on Legal Aid, a free trial grant includes both the processing fee under the Law on Legal Fees and, to a very large extent, the side costs of the court. Then this matter should be resolved in a good way in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3111	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 13, 14, 15 and 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3117	We're now ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3125	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Stortinget meeting on 4 June 2013 on the development of Afghanistan and Norway’s involvement in the country be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3171	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on proposal No. 3, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Proposal No. 3 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to continue to maintain the National Gallery as a point of view organised as part of the National Museum.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3190	The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3203	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to ensure the preservation of the National Gallery’s Munch Hall, so that Edvard Munch’s works can also be exhibited and visited in a hall specially built for this purpose in the future.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an overall assessment of the maintenance of the National Gallery as an organisational point of view for our historical collections.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3229	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against. The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3248	During the debate, Mr Korsberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the holding of a national referendum at the same time as the elections in September 2013 on the granting of State guarantees and contributions in connection with an application to organise the Olympics and Paralympics in Oslo in 2022.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3261	The left has notified that they support this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3308	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3318	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3326	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No I, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals No. 2 and 3, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 2 and 3 are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the government to issue a legal provision on compulsory property agreement at the time of marriage and when cohabitants have children in common.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3352	There is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to put in place a system of appointment of the lawyer, guardian or other representative of the child in divorce proceedings when the case comes to the main proceedings.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3369	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that both parents should be treated in the same way in the event of a breach of life. care and association with their children.»
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3541	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3551	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3559	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No I, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and Mr Right, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Green Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Left/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Noric Green/Nordic Green/Nordic Green/Noric Green/Nordic Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Green/Noric Group 2, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose to amend the Children’s Act so that women are given the obligation to provide correct information on who is or may be a child father.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3586	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the abolition of the ‘pater est’ provision in the Children’s Act.’ The voting boards showed that 67 votes were cast against and 26 votes in favour of the proposal of the Advancement Party and the Christian People's Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.20.14]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3598	I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3603	Did not the wetting plant operate?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3606	It went a little fast – I printed, but just too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3611	Let's take the vote again on proposal No. Two? The president thinks it's just as good. V o t e r i n g: The proposal from the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party was not accepted by 69 votes to 27. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.21.12]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e3620	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to assess the appropriateness of a criminal law consequence by deliberately failing to comply with the obligation to provide information on the father’s father’s father’s father’s father’. V o t e r i n g: The proposal from the Progress Party and the Right was rejected by 57 votes to 40. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 18.21.33]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4020	It is first voted on §§ 6 and new 6 a under I. The Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4035	It is then voted over the other paragraphs under I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4045	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4055	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4063	A total of 16 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 3 and 4, by Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 5, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 6, by Linda Hofstad Helleland on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposals 7-9, by Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposals No. 10–16, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1 to 9 is included in the setting on page 35. Proposals Nos. 1 to 10 is distributed in the hall. There is a vote on proposal No. 16 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size asks the government to facilitate more flexible opening times in the kindergarten sector, but to combine this with maximum residence time limits.’ The Progress Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4103	There is a vote on proposal No. 15 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a special grant for student children’. The Progress Party and the Christian People’s Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4120	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to base its competence enhancement strategy ‘Quality competence’ in the school sector on the announcement of the establishment of a system for the development of competences in the kindergarten sector.’ The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4137	There is a vote on proposal No. 11 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to establish a specific qualification programme for the unskilled in kindergarten.’ The Progress Party and the Right have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4154	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 10, 13 and 14 from the left. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The Government is asked to submit proposals for an obligatory escalation plan in line with the objective of 50 pst. relevant pedagogical training shall be provided by the personnel in the nursery sector.’;» Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals requiring municipalities to develop and adopt local standards for basic personnel in kindergartens. Local standards shall be based on the recommendations of NOU 2012:1.’;» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to wind up the maximum price system and to make municipalities responsible for determining and differentiating parental payments in the kindergarten sector – so that families with low income pay little or nothing, while families with high income pay slightly more than today’.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4181	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-9 from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government requests a proposal for a maximum residence period of 47.5 hours per week in kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that a minimum of one adult per three young children’s seats and at least one adult per six children’s seats is required in kindergarten by 2016’.» [[1:3]] [[1:6]] Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider extending the right to leave from work at kindergarten start from three days to two weeks.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4208	There is a vote on proposal No. 6, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a better social profile to be given to the rate of income for kindergarten parents, so that more families with low incomes receive lower nursery prices. The government is asked to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner.» The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4226	There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals in the context of the State budget for 2014 on the need-driven state funding of the nursery sector, based on the number of children and the number of hours per nursery.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4241	There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to develop common national indicators for measurable quality in kindergartens and to facilitate the provision of the best available information on kindergarten in a web-based quality portal.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4259	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought before it to establish an independent supervision of kindergartens.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4275	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government in the context of the State budget for 2014 to make proposals for 100 pst. non-discrimination between municipal and non-municipal kindergartens.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking, in accordance with the principle that all equal offers to children should be entitled to equal grants, to identify the extent of the problems of private kindergartens and municipal kindergarten authorities experienced in today’s child care funding legislation, to review and simplify the legislation to address these problems, and to return to the Stortingen on a case-by-case basis.’ The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4317	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's: proposal No 1, by Torgeir Tåldal on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Torgeir Tjäldal on behalf of the Party of Advancement First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to repeal the Land Law § 12 concerning the prohibition of the sharing of agricultural property.» The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4343	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take the necessary steps to ensure equal treatment in the construction of greenhouses and other agricultural buildings in respect of exemptions from the re-disposal under Section 9 of the Land Act.’ The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4420	The fourth paragraph of Section I is first referred to. The Advance Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4435	It is then voted over the other paragraphs under I and II. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4447	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party also wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4461	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4469	In the course of the debate, a proposal was put forward by Mr Törgeir Tjäldal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to make the necessary proposals to abolish the nodell law.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4545	Paragraph 16, fourth paragraph, and Paragraph 31, which is repealed under I, are first contested. The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they want to vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4560	It is then voted over the other paragraphs under I and II. The vote showed that the Committee's position was unanimous.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4567	To one voice. I voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4572	Then we'll take the vote again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4584	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4594	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4673	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4683	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4691	During the debate, Mr Anundsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Agreements to the Civil Ombudsman Act [[extension of the time limit for appeal]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4713	Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-06-06.ana.ud1439e4746	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
