ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e32	The representative of Geir-Ketil Hansen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Two permit applications are available: from the Right-wing Group on sick leave for the representative of Sylvi Graham from 16 April until further notice from the representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad on leave from 16 April until 18 April in order to participate in annual training in the Heimevernet On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For East-Agder counties: Marion Gunstveit Bojanowski For Akershus County: Bente Stein Mathisen
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e71	Marion Gunstveit Bojanowski and Bente Stein Mathisen are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e77	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr are unanimously elected presidents of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e87	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e90	I am pleased to promote a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Kjell Arvid Svendsen, Hans Olav Syversen, Ingunn E. Ulfsten and signed on the higher priority of education for all in Norwegian development policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e95	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e111	A lot of people are busy wasting their food. In 2011, the Nordic Council of Ministers examined a proposal for measures to reduce food waste. The Nordic Council of Ministers has the matter under consideration, and I have asked the Swedish Minister questions about what is being done by them. It is important that we in the national parliaments follow up on the proposal and look at how we can improve. Food waste occurs at all stages of the food chain, and at all stages it is important to reduce it. World food production represents 30 pst. of climate emissions, so that the benefits are high, both environmental and economic. It is important to set realistic goals that can be achieved and that people will be involved and understand. In the north, about 456,000 tonnes of food are disposed of each year from large kitchens and restaurants. It corresponds to an amount of food of 18 kg per year per capita. The calculation is based on food that could actually have been eaten – i.e. not rinses and bones that must be thrown. The number of kilograms of waste is likely to be under-reported. One assumes that even more food is thrown away — food that is thrown without being measured, soups and sauces that are washed down in the sink, and food that is picked up uneaten and semi-food from the restaurants. In total, the Council of Ministers estimates that hotels, institutions and restaurants throw 840,000 tonnes a year in the Nordic region. It equals 1.6 million tonnes of CO2 emissions, or emissions from 800000 cars. In Norway, we stand for over 70 pst as consumers. And we throw 51 kg every year. This represents values for 18 to 20 billion. kr, if we add together numbers from wholesalers, shops and other food producers. If we reduce by 25 pst, that means savings for society of up to 5 billion. kr. Studies show that the highest rate of relapse is between 19 and 26 years of age. Food waste is increasing with education and income, and it is mostly wasted by bread, fruit and vegetables and dairy and meat products. These causes are often shelf life, pack size, damaged packaging and poor planning. Large portions of restaurants and institutions are also increasing food waste. It is absolutely possible to reduce food waste, and many are good and have good ideas. It could be creating menus where fresh raw materials are used in different dishes, residues in soups, sauces and pots, and offering small portions of different prices. Good procurement and production planning can also be good measures. Measures may also include the collection of food products that are about to expire but can be used for other purposes – such as the People’s Kitchen, where food is made and published free of charge. ForMat, a collaborative project with several actors, has investigated a food centre – a formalised network between organisations and others that distribute food to disadvantaged people in Oslo. Surplus food is delivered from the food chains and food producers, and it is re-delivered to established outlets or to new sites. Another example is all the food provided to the IOGT project Together about the need, which distributes free food for action around Norway. Every day, 300 people get food from here, and from the food store in Grimstad, over 100 tons of food are sent every year. This shows that there are many possibilities to conclude agreements to take over usable food, and something that should be done more. One third of the food thrown into the outdoor industry comes from the guest's plates. The GreeNudge research group wanted to take a closer look at this and conducted a study of food for guests at buffet restaurants. The idea was inspired by the hypothesis ‘less plate — less food waste’. They discovered that people did not eat less, but that it was less to throw. GreeNudge, in cooperation with Cicero and Nordic Choice, did an investigation to see if it was correct. In June, 52 hotels reported their food waste. Then seven hotels got buffet plates of smaller size, while six of the hotels posted food waste information on the buffet. Both methods reduced food waste by 7.2 kg per day, which is almost 20 pst. They thought that a reduced size of the plate, from 24 cm to 21 cm, had the greatest effect. The stomach becomes known as saturated before the eyes. If Nordic Choice had reduced the plates of all the hotels, they could save more than 500 tons of food waste annually. Each kilo costs NOK 50, and the profit for all of the 170 hotels in the chain could reach SEK 31 million. kr. The environmental benefit of 900 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year is the same as 450 000 cars. It shows that it is an economic gain for the industry. More should follow that example. In Denmark, the experiment was repeated. There was a reduction of 26 pst. If you convert this into the whole business, it'll save you $10 billion. kr and 210 000 tonnes of food that can be used and not thrown. There are concrete measures that can easily and reasonably be put into practice in the hotel and restaurant industries. Tønsberg food waste generates 25 000 tonnes of waste related to food. Much is of good quality, but the legislation says it has to be destroyed. Now we hear about liver e-mail boxes that have to be thrown because of mislabelling, which is completely incomprehensible, and what the Council of State should be looking at. Good food that is thrown away – it must be allowed to use reason. The eagerness of shops to sell three by two means that many trade more than what is needed, and throw more, both because it is cheap, and because we buy more than we need. That the shops threw out well in the Consumer Inspectors, where one saw that the people's sport was going from container to container to find food that the shops had thrown – food that could be eaten. The councils had a taste of what was made, which seemed to fall in good taste. Some shops choose to lower the price the day before the goods expire, so that people can choose a cheaper solution, and that the food is used – wonder! Many are also nice to sort sources, and in Westfold, as I know best, we have sorted sources for over 15 years. Source sorting is one way to turn our trash into values again. When everyone is good at sorting sources, we can recover the waste for the production of new products and materials. Food waste can become valuable biogas and bio-fertilisers. In Vestfold, we're doing innovation in biogas. In cooperation with the 12 municipalities, they have investigated the possibility of building a biogas plant in Westfold under the auspices of VESAR waste companies. Grenland is involved in the cooperation. The waste to be used is both food waste and sludge. Vestfold Bondelag is involved in developing and contributing to the storage and reception of bio-fertilizers. Now it's working hard to make agreements with farmers in the area. In the case of gas deposition, the municipality of Telemark has decided that the buses in the county should be on biogas. The Vestfold County Municipality has decided to facilitate the use of biogas in all future tenders. Skagerak Natural Gas has agreed to sell and distribute in order to ensure easy access for fleet vehicles, such as renovation cars and buses, in Westfold and Grenland. Skagerak Natural Gas shall provide gas pipelines to the biogas plant and establish biogas filling stations. They must therefore facilitate a cost-effective and environmentally friendly infrastructure. If we get to this, we will be able to save emissions corresponding to an annual emission from approx. 2 000 cars. In Westfold the farmers are positive for the use of bio-fertilisers, and several farmers have already signed a storage and reception agreement. The farmer Dag Erik Kristensen from Re was one of the first to sign, and in him biofertilizers will be able to replace the use of fertilizer. In this way, nutrients are kept in a circuit, and one believes that using organic fertilisers will help to increase cereal yields. The plant will be the first in its kind in Norway with complete infrastructure for the storage and use of bio-fertilisers in Westfold. We're looking with tension until the continuation. I have now had some good actions, and I hope that in the debate we will reach even more. I do not think there is a great deal of political disagreement on this matter. That's why I think it's important that we find the good measures together, because I think we all have a common goal of reducing waste with food.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e176	First, I would like to thank my former colleague on the Health Committee for raising a very important interpellation. I can confirm that the food I ate from the Consumer Inspectors, who had actually had a stay in the trash box, was very good. Throwing food is not just a Norwegian or Nordic issue; it is a global challenge. One third of the food produced in the world for human consumption each year, about 1.3 billion tons, lost before it reaches a human mouth – a third! Every year well over 300000 tonnes of edible food are disposed of in Norway, in industry, in trade and in consumers. Figures from the ForMat project show that consumers throw about a quarter of the food they buy. Consumers are responsible for about 66 pst. of the food waste, the daily food trade for 18 pst. and the food industry for 16 pst. Food waste from primary production, large kitchens and restaurants is not included in these figures. Greenhouse gas emissions related to the production and distribution of food disposed of in Norway are estimated to be approx. 540 000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent, which corresponds to an annual emission of approximately 160 000 cars. Of course, from a climate perspective, preventing food waste is far more effective than treating the waste we receive afterwards and producing biogas. As stated in the Report. St. 9 for 2011-2012 Welcome to the table, the government has a target that overall growth in waste generation should be significantly lower than economic growth. The government is now developing a separate strategy on waste, which will be presented in the summer. A description of measures to reduce the amount of food waste is planned here. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food contributes to increased attention, knowledge and cooperation across the whole value chain, which is essential for reducing food waste. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food and five other departments have supported the ForMat project of the grocery and food industries, which aims to reduce the amount of useful food waste by 25 pst. from 2009 to 2015. I expect the actors in the value chain to contribute to this goal. The project implements various measures, such as systematic monitoring of food waste, networking between enterprises and research and development environments and efforts to communicate on food waste prevention. The project is well anchored in business. In parallel with the ForMat project, a food waste research project is being carried out, funded by the Food Programme of the Research Council, to which the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has contributed funds. The two projects attract large exchange rates. Another important and positive measure is the establishment of a food centre in Oslo. This will be a common centre, which will distribute full-value surplus food from grocery stores, wholesalers and producers to people who can benefit from the food. The food centre is planned to open in August to September this year. The establishment of the food centre has broad support from the retail trade, non-profit institutions and many others. There are many and complex reasons why food waste occurs, and the different actors in the food value chain each have to take their share of responsibility. Studies indicate that the four main reasons consumers throw food are that the product has expired, that the quality was too poor at the time of purchase, that there was too much in the package, or that the packaging was too poor. There has been a lack of consumer knowledge on the difference in the labelling of ‘Last consumption day’ and ‘Best before’. The ‘last day of consumption’ relates to food safety, while the ‘best before’ refers to the quality of food. However, some believe that the quality of e.g. oysters may improve after the ‘Best before’ date has expired. It tastes good, not in safety. Manufacturers are responsible for ensuring that the food is safe, that the products are properly labelled and for setting a expiry date. ForMat project and manufacturers now have a review of the date marking, including: with a view to reducing food loss. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food supports the review and has recorded such a review in the Nordic region as a proposal for a project under the auspices of the Nordic Council of Ministers. Information is an important measure to prevent and reduce food waste. Several websites, such as Matportalen, MatPrat, Green everyday life and ForMats web site matvet.no, provide information on measures to prevent and reduce food waste, including: through recipe headings, good advice on food storage and date labelling guidance. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food has participated in the process of promoting prevention and reduction of food waste as a relatively new policy area in both the UN, the OECD, the EU and the Nordic Council of Ministers. The Nordic Council of Ministers aims to make the Nordic countries one of the leading regions in reducing food waste and disseminating experience in this area worldwide. The Council of Ministers has launched several research projects on food waste. Norway is actively involved in this work and contributes to the uptake of new projects. Within the EU, food waste is a priority. It has been decided that 2014 should be a food waste year, and the EU Parliament has set a target of reducing food waste in the EU by 50 pst. by 2025. The EU also has a major research project on food waste in which Norway participates actively. The OECD has started a process of monitoring food waste in OECD countries with a view to discussing policy measures to reduce food waste. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food contributes to this process, both with its own expertise and facilitating external expertise. Food waste was also a theme at the Rio+20 conference last year. There, a ten-year framework for sustainable consumption and production was developed, which provided the basis for the UN's newly launched global campaign to reduce food waste. Finally, I believe that the best way to achieve the goal of less food loss is the awareness of the individual consumer – with all of us. That's why the kind of debate that Sonja Mandt is now going to be, is an important part of the work to reduce the total food loss and so that each of us makes conscious choices when we're going to be good consumers.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e219	Thank you for your input and answers from the Council of State. I think it's good to take the global perspective, because it's very quick to forget. But it's very important. It is a serious perspective that is outlined, and it is a necessary perspective in terms of what is both done and what needs to be done. I think it is important to develop some of the measures in place by the Council of State – ForMat, which is an attitude-creating and raising awareness of food waste, and they are very active at large events, such as Mersmak in Skien and Oslo's environmental day, where they give tastings of food that has expired. They provide information about recipe headings. It's clear that our mothers and grandmothers were better at that than maybe the next generation. They are active on Facebook and Twitter and spread information. I agree with the Council of State that this is where we must come to – we must create attitudes. Refrigerated ungulates and edible ungulates are a phenomenon after Food for 2011. There's also a lunch table that's based on food that should have been thrown. The dinner table is another action that has been at festivals in 2012, with an exhibition of 51 kg of edible food, which represents what each of us throws a year, and where they make quiz about shelf life dates, safe and proper food storage – effective measures that provide a fine way to talk about food safety and sustainability. I agree with the Council of State that there are many who are confused by the marking we have. The ‘best before’ indicates that the food is at its best but nevertheless edible and of good quality, while the ‘last day of consumption’ and the ‘lightly perishable’ food, the date on which it indicates that the products are not to be sold. Many follow this very slavishly, and in particular the ‘best before’. Cheese is often better afterwards, but people throw it just out of date. We should do what they did before: use the senses, see, smell and taste before we throw. I hope we get a nice debate on an important topic where I again say that the dividing lines are not big, but the ideas are probably many. I think we're going to try together to find the good, mind-building measures where we, each of us, are going to do the actions we can do, but also focus on it, so that others do the actions that others might have tried before them, and that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e234	I just want to make some additional comments about the global, because one of the big ones – I choose to use the word ‘moral’ – paradoxes is that we know that approx. One billion people struggle to get the daily bread, and one of the biggest global challenges we face is to ensure food security for enough people. And then we're going to throw a third of the food that's being produced. One thing is that one third of the food is lost. In some developing countries it is about not being able to get the food from the soil, where it is produced, and to the consumer, and there is a lot of loss on the road. With us, it's mostly at the other end that it's lost – that we buy the food, but we have such good advice that we choose to throw a quarter of it. So it's one of the moral paradoxes we're facing: one billion people have too little food, while in the richest part we throw a quarter of the food we've actually bought. When we also know that it is helping to reinforce the global environmental challenges, we see that this is a major issue. Then I want to draw up one more thing that has a clear connection with how much we spend on food, and it's that people don't throw something that they feel is expensive to buy. So it's also a consequence of the wealth development we have in Norway that we use down to 10 pst. Of what we earn, on food. The value of food is low. With the purchasing power development we have in Norway in the future, we will also use such a relatively small proportion of what we earn on food – about 10 pst. That is why it is vitally important that we have good attitudes to this issue. This is why it is good that such people as Coop Norway, the Norway Group and other food chains are also involved in reducing food waste — that even those who make high sales of food are involved in the discussion in order to get food wasted. It is among the most joyous things that the food chain is also involved. So if we manage – you and me, each of us – to create consciousness, that we go together in close cooperation, so that we get along with the food industry, with the food chains, it's possible that we're going to be able to keep the food throwing down. If we don't grab it, it's equally likely that the roll of food is going to go up. This I take a little bit of the feeling, but I think it's also a generation perspective. I think my generation is throwing more food than my grandparents are. That is why there is a great deal of awareness-raising about young generations now. If we don't get it done, I think we'll just get more food waste in the future and not less. Then is the kind of debate that Sonja Mandt is now making, and the recordings that come here – that Coop Norway, the Norway Group and other actors, the Environment Group, the Future in our hands, all sorts of actors, are deliberately working on it – important, so that you and I get a little better in our daily choices. Finally, when I was at a dairy here – I shouldn't say which – he who was responsible for the quality of cheese said that he always ate the cheese a year after it was actually to be eaten, because then it was the best.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e247	First, thank you to the interpellant who chooses to raise this theme in the Storting. There is hardly a more important political topic, and we politicians are probably more concerned about discussing how much we should grant for all good purposes, and about adopting new laws. But here we stand at one of the areas in our society that should really bother us most politically, and that require a great deal of pressure to change the behaviour of consumers, restaurants, shops and what it might be, that contributes to what the British writer and activist Tristram Stuart described in his book, and which he has called ‘Waste: Uncovering the Global Food Scandal’ – the global food scandal – that we are really talking about. In a world where one saw daily observations, as the Minister of Agriculture also had in mind, that an incredible number of people, up to a billion, are undernourished, allowing those who have the opportunity to buy food, to throw heroin at a third. Here in Norway we operate by throwing about. 25 pst. of what we buy. It's a paradox. At a time when we're going to use less than 10 pst. Of our household budget on food, we choose to throw a quarter of it, while at the same time the political noise around the cost of food has never been higher. So, the easiest way to get more reasonable food in Norway is to stop throwing food, because you get 25 pst. Discount if you can eat the food you buy. Most people should be able to do that. Therefore, it is thoughtful that the author Stuart managed to tobread approx. 5,000 people for lunch in Trafalgar Square. I guess you did some of the same thing outside of Stortingen, there were 2,000 who got food. It was just some of the resource base that also made the Minister of Agriculture sat on an occasion, I understand. This is, above all, an ethical and moral challenge for all of us – alongside the environmental, alongside the resource. It is quite obvious that we should all take an extra round on: what can we do to help this disappearance actually be reduced? In this way, it is good to have an inter-pelling debate on it, because I believe that there are other and more reinforced political approaches that need to be taken forward, and in particular with a view to – and I want to raise one point – how we should be able to manage to create behavioural changes in consumers, to a much greater extent using the commercial channels out to consumers to tell about the situation, but also to tell about the alternatives that consumers have. I've seen some approaches to good action, both the websites and also the ForMat, that contribute well into this, but there's so infinitely much left to reach people. When I arrived at Stortinget today, I was met at Egertorget by the Future in our hands and Coop who had action, and who just distributed the rules of the fat. I think we have to start here and really put in a big shock, first and foremost to explain to consumers what ‘best before’ and ‘last day of consumption’ are actually about. The fact that you have the opportunity to get an awakening around it to handle food based on what it looks like, what it smells like and how it tastes is actually a very good idea to take milk from the box that the date has gone on. We might look at our children and younger people how incubated you are in terms of date tagging, and how consistent one is often in not wanting to drink the milk that has gone out on date or eat the egg that has expired on date. There's a lot to do to mobilize so that this global food scandal gets a smaller format in the future than what we actually see today. It also deserves those who today are starving.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e264	First of all, I'm going to give honey to the interpellant who's raising a problem issue that I think we're all familiar with. Very often, this becomes a debate at the intersection of food security, what has to do with common sense and taking care of resources. That's where we're going to think about what's related to the durability date. Several of us sitting in this room are also young children's parents, and as the representative Storberget was talking about, how early are you going to try to influence these things? I think you have to start earlier. In fact, I think it's very important to focus on food and how we use the food, from kindergarten and up. But it has to apply to all of the terms. It is clear that we as consumers have a responsibility. Whether to open packages to know if they smell good or not; if that was just what to look at, no one would ever eat old cheese at all. There may also be other things to consider. The first thing we authorities have to consider is exactly what's related to the durability date. It has not been long since the expiry date has been changed, for example: eggs. The durability was much longer than it is today. Then you can discuss what's the background for getting that change related to the durability date. I think it's time you just looked at some of these things, that maybe the durability is considerably longer than what is being practised in relation to the legislation that we're being imposed. We also need to look at the whole food chain, including the manufacturer and the manufacturer, to get the totality of it. It has not been long since we in the media heard about eggs and the destruction of eggs – that we had overproduction. At least it's an area you have to focus on. There is no destruction to be carried out in this respect, one must ensure that these products come out to the consumer in the form of food. I think you have to look at the whole value chain here, how you can get better and get better information. Obviously, what has to do with durability dates is a key factor. I also think that the Council of State in its statement pointed out many good measures, in particular that with the distribution from among others. producers, Mathallen and the distribution channel to be established for the autumn. These are very good steps to see how to use these things. I really look forward to the measures that are now being said to have taken, but I think the most important thing to achieve or move forward is the attitude-creating of the inhabitants themselves. I think it was Storberget who in his post was concerned with the fact that previous generations were more good at this. I think it's quite obvious. I think it's also related to what has to do with our own welfare development, that we're less good at taking care of residues. As a sunmer, I know about taking care of residues – I have almost grown up on residues, I have the impression of. It is clear that it is important just to create these attitudes and take care of and use the resources that we actually have at our disposal. I look forward to the measures that are coming. I believe it is a good and an important debate that we are holding here.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e279	I would like to like to like the other speakers who have been here today, thanks for taking up a very important matter. I'll try to give perspective on how important this case is. When we talk about the agricultural message, we talk about our ambition to increase food production in Norway in line with the population growth, i.e., increasing food production in Norway by a few percent a year. When we see that we're throwing the quarter of the food that's being produced, we see the dimensions of this thing. The ambitions we have to increase food production in Norway, we have to keep going for a very long time before we have increased food production equivalent to what we're throwing. A reduction in litter will be an important step in relation to food production. This is, as many have been asked, a moral and ethical question. One thing is the climate emissions we get – unnecessary climate emissions due to the production of food that we don't use, but instead throws away. The second is that we are facing a situation where parts of the world are starving, and where the UN Food Organisation has said that we need to increase food production on a world-wide basis. It's here as in most other situations: the best way to increase production is to reduce the loss, because we've already produced it. As you can see, this is a matter that we are talking too little about. Why has it become like this? I'm up on a little garden in the West. I don't think we had any special food waste. To the extent that we couldn't reuse the raw materials we produced on the garden or the fish in the fjord, it was a short way to go to the bowls that the pig was supposed to have. I think one of the reasons for this is that at that time there was a close relationship with the raw materials that would be fed. One of the challenges today is that we have a forward-thinking when it comes to the raw materials that we're going to feed on. The raw materials today are not fish that look like fish or meat that you can watch and get a physical relationship to, it's a plastic package. No matter what food you buy, it's a plastic package. Then a relationship to the raw material loses, the assessment of quality and sustainability, etc. Then you have to trust what's on the outside, and then you get the situation that a thrower immediately in the instant that the date of durability has expired, without checking what's inside. But not only that: I also think it has begun to become some confusion about "best before" and "last day of consumption". Getting proper information about what's on the plastic-packed food, I think is one of the important things we can contribute to. There's also a little bit of a change in posture when it comes to understanding the quality of food and not just trusting what's on the package. Information about this, I think, is an important matter. I also think we have reason to grasp the thinking of the consumer society. We have come into a situation where all the problems in the world are to be solved with increased production. But there are actually some problems in the world that are better solved with reduced consumption. There is no doubt that without comparison, reducing consumption is the best measure to reduce climate change. There's no doubt that we don't meet the global or national climate change targets if we don't also focus on reducing consumption. When it comes to food, it's a very good example that we get better counting by focusing on not necessarily reduced consumption, but reduced waste. Getting a hold in society where a focus is on reducing waste – to the extent that consumption is also reduced – and not increasing production, I think we need to get a good future both when it comes to climate and otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e292	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for putting an important theme on the agenda. I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Storberget, for a good report on what this really is about. Because it's like the 2011 Sofie Prize winner, Stuart, says: it's about taking care of the food that already exists and using it. He has lived for many years of food that has been thrown. He has made toasts, both in England and Norway, of food that has already been thrown. 1 billion. people who are currently suffering from severe malnutrition could have been saturated with less than one third of the food thrown into the United States and Europe. It's people who are hungry today. There are many of us that are going to throw food that could have been used to saturation lean. Water used to grow discarded food would be enough to meet the need for two litres of water per day for nine billion. human beings. It's almost not to believe. We know that up to half of all food produced is thrown on the road from the production site to our food table. Agricultural land corresponding to one quarter of Norway's land area is used annually to produce meat and milk products disposed of in British and American households, shops and restaurants. The NHO, the food trade and the food industry have taken the lead. They have taken the initiative to reduce food waste by 25 pst. by 2015. It's not a long time left, but they still believe it, and they're good at it. They've set themselves bold targets. A ForMat survey of 5 April 2011 showed the following results on useful food waste in Norway: what we throw the most of are fresh bakery products, fresh fruit and fresh vegetables. The main visible reason for throwing food is that it has expired. 60 pst. by us as consumers, this is the main reason. 90 pst. of all the food thrown into the store is due to its expiry date or deterioration in quality. Very well known it is thrown every year from grocery stores approx. 850 tonnes of fresh eggs that are fully edible. However, due to a regulatory change in the EU with a maximum limit of 14 days, these have to be discarded. For me, this is a mystery. Although products marked with ‘best before’ and which are fully edible long after the date has expired, this is indicated by ‘expired on date’ as the main reason for discarding the products. It was therefore the Christian People's Party last year promoted a proposal for a representative to achieve a national target for the reduction of food waste and a review of the food labelling system. We're going to have a safe food labeling system that puts food safety in the center and also puts quality in the center. But we have to have a review of this reaches 60 pst. of us as consumers state that this is the main reason why we throw food. The councils wondered or had a feeling that there was a difference between generations when it came to the throwing of food. Yes, we can just say it like this: the proportion of consumers over the age of 60 is not as concerned with the label system as what we are under the age of 60. What's the reason for this? Well, it's because of clearly generations of growth and the society we live in. We in the Christian People's Party are concerned with this review. This review of the food labelling scheme was to take place in the waste notification cancelled by the government in the autumn. My question to the Council of State is now: Will it be followed up by this strategy? In the last few seconds, I'm going to use it on a very topical matter. That's now 2.2 million. liver e-mail boxes – the yellow ones – from Stabburet in stock because they have been mislabelled in the design. They were produced in Fredrikstad at Stabburet, but it says on the label that they were produced at Abba in Sweden. Can these be thrown? Or the Swedish Food Authority can be told that we can eat these at Norwegian table although it says that they are produced in Sweden instead of in Norway. That's the discussion. I hope the Council of State intervenes so that we don't waste $2 million. yellow liver e-mail boxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e305	It's an unpleasant truth that we're throwing one third of the food that's produced. At the same time, a child dies of hunger every six seconds. We in the Center Party are therefore pleased that the government is now developing its own strategy on waste, which is thus being presented in the summer. We look forward to measures to reduce the amount of food waste that will lie in such a strategy. It's an important question the interpellant travels, and I want to thank you for bringing this topic up. The big paradox here in Norway is that customers are asking for cheaper and cheaper food at the same time as a family of four is throwing food at NOK 10,000 a year. It can't go on like that. We have to focus on the value of the food. Quality must and must cost. That way, consumers might think more carefully before filling the shopping basket with food they're never going to eat. Eight out of ten say they get a bad conscience when they throw food, shows a Norstat study carried out in connection with the work on the new food legislation launched these days. Nevertheless, the Nordics throw almost 300,000 tonnes of food a year, or 50 kg per person. The question is, why don't we do something about our bad conscience? Why are these developments continuing? I can't answer for everyone, but I would assume that there are many different measures that need to be taken to reduce the amount of food waste. A number of articles earlier here today have been concerned with attitudes, and it's very much about attitude-creating work, from the childhood of and not least in the individual family. One important measure is to remove the focus on cheap food. Another important and positive measure to reduce the amount of edible food thrown into this country is the establishment of a food centre in Oslo, where the Council of State was involved. That full-fledged food from groceries, wholesalers and producers can benefit is a long-term measure for many, not least those who benefit from this food. That the establishment of such a centre has broad support from the retail trade, non-profit institutions, etc., shows enough that the bad conscience of throwing food actually plagues the vast majority of us. The active participation of Norway in Nordic efforts to become one of the leading regions in reducing food waste and spreading experience of this out into the world is a matter of course for us in the Central Party. We are pleased that the Council of Ministers has launched several research projects on food waste and that we in Norway can contribute to new projects. In the end, I guess it's just for us to take part in today's debate, to conclude that morality has to be that we have to eat our food and not throw it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e318	I would also like to thank the interpellant, Sonja Mandt, for putting this matter on the agenda. I'm going to start like Irene Lange Nordahl's representative stopped, and I'm going to say, "Eat up your food!" We've passed seven billion today. human beings on earth, and we all eat the same dish. Over 1 billion. people in the world are starving or are misnourished. So at the same time, one third of the food that's produced is wasted. Can our relationship with food make a difference? Food waste is a major problem that many people have been faced with, not just in Norway, but throughout the world. In several developing countries, the main challenge is to obtain good and efficient harvests, proper storage and transport of crops without damaging raw materials before reaching the market. In the Western world, the most food is thrown into the later stages of the value chain, especially in the big households, in trade and in consumers. The food's getting cheaper, we're getting better and better and the threshold of what's not edible is strongly shifted. We have great demands for the food to be completely fresh and for the offer to be varied and extensive. For many products, there is also a major focus on the date of shelf life, on which many people have been involved, and in addition to the fact that knowledge of old food traditions that have exploited raw materials better has been lost, a lot of food is wasted because people don't think it's edible. So why are we throwing food? Do we misunderstand the date marking? Have we forgotten to smell up to what's moldy and yummy? It's also an important knowledge that might go into the memory book of our modern affluent society. Maybe the food is too cheap? But for many years we've heard that it's too expensive? But when we hear how much food goes into the garbage, we might understand that the food is too cheap. My final call is therefore that we all have to do what we can to reduce food waste, throughout the food chain, that is, from primary producers to the food industry, trade and consumers. The aim must be that all food produced should initially be consumed and not end up as food waste – not least in terms of the climate challenges we face. Finally, I would say that yes, this problem is also an ethical challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e334	Thank you for a very good debate, which shows that there is a great deal of consensus and broad scope in the measures that need to be taken. I agree with everything that has been said – that behavioral changes need to, that we have an ethical and moral responsibility especially towards the growing generation, in order to teach them to maintain old food tradition and eat up their food. We have to influence the kids from kindergarten by, that's important. When you hear of measures in kindergartens where all the food that has been on the table has to be thrown because it is ‘contaminated’ and cannot be used again, this gives our kids bad signals that we are going to raise food. I think we have to go in ourselves and not least take to heart the areas where we have the opportunity to influence: kindergarten, school and the emerging generation. I think it's very gratifying that the global perspective has been taken up. We have enough food for everyone if we had thrown less, and I think we'll think about it very much. We have a responsibility for those people who starve. Therefore, it is important to look at the labelling schemes, to see if something is good enough to use, to see if the livery that is to be raised should not be thrown, to look at source sorting and to ensure that all municipalities have it. In my municipality, Larvik, we had source sorting in the 1960s. Then they brought the horse and picked up the dishes at home that we had thrown, and it was used for pig feed. This went away in the 1970/80s, but now we're back again and sort the source. Biogas and bio-fertilizers, which I was talking about, are good measures to ensure the post-use of what actually has to be discarded. When Choice chooses to reduce plate size by three centimeters and get so much out of it, this should be a measure that other restaurants take a note and look at further. All the good examples taken up here should be taken into account by all those involved in food – wholesalers, food producers, grocery stores or us as consumers – look at and take notes and try to do something about it. I think we can each make a difference in the matter of food waste, and not least, as the Council of State was about to do, look at this in the context of the message that comes. We can just get better, and we can make it easier for those who starve if we can reduce food waste. Again: Thank you for a good debate. I think there were very many good recordings coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e347	Thank you for a very good debate. I noticed that so to say all parties – except the Right – have participated in the debate, but I expect that the Right is also concerned with this topic. So I want to go to Kiwi-Bob, which is one of the new phenomena in Norwegian public. There's a man named Bob, who's feeding on traveling around Kiwi stores and picking out goods that go out on date, and he made over 300,000 dollars on this last year, according to the media. And there's something of the paradox in this: I remember there was a big discussion in February, where Kiwi-Bob was indignant that the store in Vadsø had put down the price of Nugatien right before it went out to date. He thought it was wrong that it could trick the customers. I think it's good to do that type of grip. And I think it's a paradox that a chain has made it its great brand that you should be able to make money if you find the best-before-date stamp on the day in its store, when you know that this is full-value, good goods. And to use this kind of self-research: I was at the local Kiwi store just before it was supposed to shut down, and when you see full shopping carts being dragged out of the store with full-value goods, it makes you think a little bit about what abundance we actually live in. I think this debate has raised the moral aspects of this in a very good way, and shown that it is ultimately up to ourselves, what choices we ourselves make, what attitudes we have. This is why it is important to use the kind of awareness-raising campaigns such as: Coop and the future in our hands ran on Egertorget today, where you spread opinions that you have to try not to throw food. Because, as Lillian Hansen said, ultimately, you have to eat your food if you have bought the food – and these are attitudes that we have to go. So over to some of the themes that have been up there. Harald T. Nesvik of the Progress Party spoke about overproduction of eggs, and then I have to make a small partisan point – there have not been so many of them so far, today we have agreed politically. Overproduction of eggs shows how important it is to have good market regulation, that we have good market regulation in a commodity market, and that there is no overproduction. That is why we believe that we should have good market regulation through cooperatives and that the cost should be passed on to producers even if there is overproduction. Because if there is overproduction of a commodity as food, then unfortunately, over time, it has to be thrown, and it is in no way beneficial, either for those who produce the food, in terms of morals, because this is a scarce resource, but also in terms of the environment, that there is a major environmental challenge with a lot of food waste. But apart from the tiny nuance, the hall has been completely united today, and then it is important that we from the good words here also follow up with different instruments. At least I have close dialogue with the industry about this. I know that Sonja Mandt has been active in the Nordic Council, among others. as regards this theme. So we get to use the different arenas we have, so we can keep this problem and the big challenge it is with food waste, down.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e360	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e374	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of up to three lines with replies by the main speakers from each group and up to five lines with replies by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e385	First of all, I have to first of all be allowed to say that this is a matter where in many ways there are not the big dividing lines in so many areas. The Committee is united on very much of what the government has presented. The background to this case is in many ways a post-control of the participation law and a review of the Fishing Prohibition Act, and certain amendments to the Sea Resource Act have also been made. As I said, a lot of what's here is sensible approaches. Some are also in many ways shifting from one law to another because it naturally belongs in that law, so that the committee in most areas does not have the big debates. This applies, inter alia, to: What to do with housing requirements for crews and masters – in that area we have some changes and differences. However, if you go into the very introductory text of the committee, there is a reference to the great consensus both in terms of the importance of having a law to limit illegal fishing and in terms of how to tackle these things. It is also widely agreed that Norwegian fishing resources should be managed by and belong to Norway as a nation, and not least to what has to do with who should be able to fish in Norwegian waters. This is important because, for Norway, fishing is a major and important part both for the industry along the coast and for what has to do with the export value of Norway, because it is important that we have good control of these resources, as we have had, and there has actually been a good job done. In this context, I will in fact give tribute to the Council of State, precisely linked to the work done in the field of UUU fishing, but also to the legislation on how to combat these things. But it's quite obvious that if we're going to get on with this, the international agreements are the way to go. We are unable to solve these problems alone, and we are currently facing major challenges, including: related to the pelagic sector, where both Iceland and the Faeroe Islands are now taking many forms in this field. However, there is one thing that we will come back to when we are dealing with fisheries agreements with other countries, and not in these matters. Then I feel like I've given a good enough information about what we're all about in the committee, and I'm going to try to go into a couple of areas where you don't agree. In this regard, I would first like to draw attention to what has to do with the requirement of residence for crew and shipowners, i.e. § 5(a), Requirements for residence. There, the opposition – at least the Advance Party and the Right – separates layers with the government, and there we promote our own proposal. The background to this proposal is that Section 5(a) defines this as a place of residence for both shipowners, crews and pilots, but demands are also made for masters. The Progress Party and the Right have promoted an alternative to that paragraph. In fact, we believe that the derogation provided by the government in Section 5(a) is not necessary, because we believe that there is no requirement at all for the place where the master lives as long as the 50 pst requirement of the paragraph is met. This has been demonstrated by the fact that in some situations, some have chosen to live in other countries for short or longer periods of time. In particular within the fisheries, inter alia: related to major vessels with arrangements for a trip and a trip, or large variations in seasonal fishing, some have also chosen to live outside the EEA territory. Such requirements for masters shall in many ways be unnecessary as long as the requirement for crew and pilots of 50 pst. So here we have an alternative proposal. The Party also separates the laws of all other parties with regard to the criminal offences. We then choose to vote against several of the paragraphs that go in that direction – it is sections 28, 29, 31 and 31 a that are listed there. The background is not that we are necessarily opposed to the criminal reactions, but that, as we write in our remarks, we believe that it is high time to carry out a full review of these provisions. It's not done. One has done a back check, and then one comes here and says this, among other things. is an adaptation of the criminal provisions of the Participant Act and the Marine Resource Act. That is not quite right, because in this case, the penalty level is also raised from three to six years in the event of a serious breach of the marine resource law. Even if you write that you have to evaluate the cross-border in that context, you don't say that's what's exclusive. The Progress Party believes that we need to carry out a full review of the whole area involved in the use of penalties. We know that the nutritionists are very sceptical about what's going on. We have seen individual cases of boats that have been subjected to unreasonable penalties related to the infringements they have committed. The Hardhaus judgment is in that respect one of them. That is why, in the Progress Party, we want a full review of these chapters to be carried out, and then we have to come back to the Stortinget afterwards with a case concerning this field. We don't want to conclude now, as the government has done. We also believe that it is high time to carry out a full review of the participant law, not just the post-control that has been chosen in this case, to look at and update this law to what is today's reality. We feel that this has not been done to a sufficient extent, and there are also others who have pointed out in the hearing that a working group should have been set up before choosing to make these changes. With that, I am promoting all the proposals that the Progress Party in the vote is on or with others alone, and I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e413	The representative Nesvik then addressed the proposals he himself referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e418	I record that the Progress Party as the only party of Storting does not support the amendment to raise the penalties for gross fishing crime. As you know, this is not a signal to change the level of normal penalties, but it is necessary to combat international fishing crime. In order to be able to cooperate with other countries in this area, it is essential that the criminal framework is adapted to the requirements of the UN Convention against Transboundary Organised Crime. Can the representative Nesvik explain why the so-called law-and-order party, the Progress Party, will not follow other parties on this issue? The fight against gross economic crime is incredibly important to ensure future fishing resources and the income base of Norwegian fishermen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e425	Once again, I can repeat my post that I held in the pulpit, because if the representative heard about it, she would have got what we said. First, we want a complete review of what is involved in the criminal level approach. Then you get to do the job properly and then come back to Stortinget with that very matter. We have not said that we are against it, we have said that at this time – without having done that job first – we will go against it. So that's what we're waiting for, and that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e432	The party writes in its comments, inter alia: the main objective of current fisheries management and legislation is to maximise the optimal harvest of marine resources. The term sustainability is not at all mentioned as part of the main objective. It is a very short-term view of the Labour Party not to take into account the sustainable management of marine resources. If we manage the fish in the sea in a good way, it is a renewable and eternal resource that will ensure value creation in the future. Does the representative of Nesvik think that such a main objective as the Progress Party is prefecting will contribute to the management in a good enough way and secure fishing resources for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e439	What is in the optimal harvest of resources is also sustainable – sustainability is part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e444	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e447	The working party considers that it is important and appropriate to make these changes to fisheries legislation. The Labour Party is of the opinion that many of the proposals promoted in the proposal are not controversial and fully in line with today's policy. Most of the things that are done in this case are the transfer of technical character. But there are a number of policy areas that I want to address here. In dealing with these issues, it is clear from several comments made by the Progressive Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party that they want a new direction in the Norwegian fisheries policy. It is no big surprise that they are also trying on this matter. But when that is said, I will give a very small tribute to the Right who was not led into the comments of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, where it appears that a full review of the whole field of fines and penalties for breaching the provisions of the Sea Resource Act and the Participation Act should be carried out before amending the provisions of the Participation Act. But after that, it's a stop. The opposition wants a full review of the law of participants, and mentions in particular the relationship between county bonds, inheritances and generational changes. The right-hand party states in its own note that there is a wish to make a statement on the real and underlying ownership and power conditions of the fishing industry and wishes to submit a case on the limitations of the participant law. This is a full evaluation of the law on participants. For the Workers' Party, there is no current policy. For us, it is important to remember that the purpose of the Participant Act is fixed. It is necessary to adapt fishing fleet fishing capacity to the resource base in order to ensure the rational and sustainable exploitation of marine resources, including safe settlements and coastal areas jobs, so that the harvesting of marine resources continues to benefit the coastal population. It's good to remember this. Here we are unshakable. In the case of residence requirements for crews and masters, on which the representative Nesvik was involved, the Workers' Party fully agrees with the Ministry's assessment that there is no reason to reconsider the recordings on change. In this case, it is about adjustments in the law on legal positioning. The working party has noted that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not wish the master to be bound by the obligation of residence. We do not agree with that. I also point out that this matter was discussed in detail in Ot.prp. No 99 for 2005-2006. In the case of the Chapter on County Bindings, which deals with the right to participate in fishing, the place of residence shall be required for the acquisition of vessels for fishing purposes. Here, too, the requirement of residence is maintained. In the case of a generation change, it also encroaches on residence requirements, in line with ordinary acquisitions. But this requirement does not apply in the case of inheritance or death. The Labour Party believes that a generation change can be planned and implemented in good time, and that it is not up to us to make changes in this area either. It is no surprise that the Progress Party does not wish to take specific regional policy considerations into account in the acquisition authorisation of fisheries policy. They include in their proposal that the acquisition authorisation may be refused, for example: in the interests of the territorial distribution of the fishing fleet and taking into account the resource base. We don't see any reason to change it either. The Workers' Party also agrees with the Ministry's assessment here and will, like the Ministry, stress the importance of Northern Norway's ownership in ensuring raw material supply to processing plants in the rural area, which will in turn help to maintain the fishing environment. Then it is proposed to amend the penal framework for serious infringements – I am clarifying serious infringements – of the Sea Resource Act from three to six years, which is in line with the criminal provisions for serious environmental crime in the penal code, which is six years old. It is important to stress that the level of penalties for breach of the Sea Resource Act is fixed. It will not be affected by the proposal. Not all serious infringements will be affected either. It is primarily international fishing crime that will be affected by the proposal to increase the penalties. I will end by commending the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast for their work on this matter. The legislation is in a continuous process, which is not terminated even if a law or regulation has been adopted or entered into force. Such back-testing carried out here makes it possible to detect any problems with the law, so that necessary adjustments and improvements can be made. It's necessary and correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e474	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e477	My question to the representative Hansen is related to what is involved in the charge of infringements, periodic penalty payments and criminal provisions in relation to the law of the participant. This is a legislative proposition. That is, this is part of the preliminary work of the law. The same is true of this debate in which we are participants. Therefore, I would ask that the representative, Hansen, elaborate on the following that she has agreed to enter in the setting. – You write: ‘The majority then assumes that the amendment of the law is not itself a signal of a change in the level of normal penalties.’ I'll ask the representative to explain to me what's the difference between that and that it's not a change in the normal penalty level. This is part of the preliminary work of the law, and this becomes a legal interpretation. What does that mean then that it's not a change in the normal penalty level itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e487	I was so prepared to get such questions, so I choose to say it this way: I am elected to the Stortinget to operate with politics, and not to operate with juss. But what I want to say to this issue is: the overall objective is that we want to harmonise the penal laws for gross breaches of the provisions of the Marine Resource Act on economic and organised crime. It is important to stress that this with the level of penalties for ordinary infringements of marine resources is fixed and will not be affected by the proposal. Not all gross infringements, which I had in mind in my post, will be affected either. We fully support the Ministry's proposal to increase the penalty framework in the Sea Resource Act, which aims primarily at combating international fishing crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e492	I record that the representative Lillian Hansen has not come to Stortinget to discuss the wording of the bill. I find that rather amazing, but I'm going to try to be a little bit more general in the question. A law often has a purpose paragraph. I agree with Mr Hansen that this is also a point of purpose in the Act of Participation. If the environment or other things over time make the law not suitable for fulfilling the purpose paragraph, does the representative see that it may be beneficial to take a full review of the law to ensure that what has been adopted in the purpose paragraph is also fulfilled in practice out there?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e499	What I was talking about in my post is that it is not relevant to have a review of the participant law now. What we're doing now is we're going to stick to this, but the department has added up to a back-up that we're going to do completely for. The aim of the Act of Attendants is absolutely firm and will not be reviewed – I think – during this period, to put it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e506	In the consultation round in connection with this proposition, it was rather alarming that the Fiskerlag chose not to give a full consultation opinion. Among other things, one of the things that the Fisker team reacted most strongly to was: this with the criminal provisions of the law. The Christian People's Party joins in a joint remark that one should have had an overall review here, and we point out that the Fisker team has also pointed out that they were not invited to participate in a party selection in connection with the investigation. Does the Workers' Party understand the objections raised by the Fiskerlag, which underlie the Christian People's Party and the comment of the Advance Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e515	I have respect for every input that comes, and I have the impression that that recording was directed to the department. When the representative asks in this way, I'm going to say that we support the assessments that the department has made regarding this recording of the process of the Fisker team.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e520	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e523	The right has been concerned with the legal certainty of all operators in the maritime food industry and has therefore made a number of proposals in the Stortinget, where we have asked for a review of legislation to ensure legal certainty. In the draft representative document document 8:120 S for 2010–2011, the Right asked for a review of legal certainty for Norwegian fishermen. In this context, the right-wing wish to account for the real and underlying ownership and power conditions of the fishing industry. A case was requested on the limitations of the participant law, explaining whether these contribute to the achievement of the purpose of the law, the positive and negative consequences of the restrictions on ownership and the assessment of a distinction based on the size of the boats. The right has registered the purpose of the law, but then we asked for a review to see if the purpose of the law is fulfilled, as the law is there today. The right also believes that the legislation should be amended to allow for a more unbureaucratic approach to generational shifts. The right considers that there is a need to evaluate the law of participants and that, in this context, a draft consultation should be drawn up which is widely circulated to all operators in the industry. In the right, we record the criticism from the industry that it has been one for internal review and that it is surprising that the consultation note has a three-year penalty framework. In the draft law, this increases to six years — without the consultation bodies being informed and being given the opportunity to comment. In the Right's view, there's reason to criticize the government for a little bit of uncertainty here. The right notes that the government meets the criticism of Norway’s Fiskarlag that this has been a closed process, that this is only a post-control of the law, and that, in the government’s view, there has been a sufficiently open process. Here the Right will state that there has not been in any way such a thorough and open review that it meets the Right's proposal for a more thorough review of the real power conditions in the industry. The right has sought and proposed an amendment to the Participant Act to make it easier for shipping companies to change generations. This is justified by the fact that the cultural connection between industry and industry has grown up in a shipping company is important for the further development of the industry, both by simply bringing with it engaged young people who will be part of the industry, and also in order to maintain capital in the industry – capital that is too often in succession is transferred to other areas, where one can invest without being bound by rules on residence and duty of activity. Therefore, the right considers that generational shifts should be carried out in the simplest way in the interests of industry in general. Initially, I explained the Right's work on legal certainty in the industry. It is important for us to be clarified in the form of a note that the intrusions adopted here on criminal charges, periodic penalty payments and the criminal provisions of the law of participants are justified by international crime. We have therefore chosen a different solution from that chosen by the Progress Party. The Progress Party is voting against changes, one wants a more thorough review. Right-wing support that we need to have a more thorough review – we have also suggested that before. But for us, it is important to engage in dialogue with the government parties, to move this in the form of a note in committee work, so that we are made clear that this is not a real criminal intensification for national activity. So here it's a criminal intensification against international crime. On the right, the wording taken up by the Progress Party in the change of line with the Workers' Party is recorded, but we believe that the wording keeps that promise, namely that this is a criminal intensification that goes on international crime. The right, together with the majority of the Committee, argues that this is not, in itself, a signal of a change in the level of normal penalties. The decision is an increased criminal framework for dealing adequately with cross-border and organised crime. Finally, the Right considers that there is a need for an overall review of this field with a focus on legal certainty and emphasis on the power situation in the industry. Is it that today's law at all points meets the purpose of the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e546	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e549	In a joint comment with the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, under the chapter on vessel owners' union, it is stated that Right believes it is important to facilitate ‘minimum public restrictions on the establishment and development of the industry’ – I repeat, ‘minimum possible’. It is concluded that it should also apply, for example: at the bottom of a fishing vessel. This must also be understood to mean that the Right hand side of the hall is opposite the bounds of the hall. Does the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen think that this is a proper measure to preserve and further develop the fishing industry in the north? Does the representative really think that bindings attached to fishing should be lifted?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e557	Now it's probably the way the representative here comes up with a wish formula. It is not that the Right has said that you are opposed to county bonds. For the Right, it is important – and it is actually a general principle – to have as few regulation as possible. We believe that industrial activities should be as free as possible in order to develop. That's how county bonds are there, but you have to always be sure that they meet the purpose. That is why we have asked for a review – that is, that part of the participation law. I have no problem taking the representative northwards to show her countless examples that county bonds have not been a good thing for the country. A review of the county bonds and that part of the law will be correct for the Right, so that we are absolutely sure that the purpose laid down in the law is fulfilled – and not only is something government parties can travel around to adorn themselves with.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e568	I would like to have a little follow-up: Norwegian fishing resources belong to the community. If I don't think completely wrong, open the Right in the Progress Party layers so that ship owners can be foreign – they want to take it out of the law, which applies to ship owners. Does the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen not see that this is actually a watering down of the fact that the fishing resources belong to the community and the Norwegian people?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e575	Here we have a representative who appears to be a child of the school, with average Norwegian reading skills. That's how we say, master. When a Norwegian national is to carry a trawler, it is not so careful for the right whether the master lives in Ålesund or whether he is resident in Las Palmas. It's not that the owner of the ship should be able to live abroad, so it's the master of the ship. We believe that when you meet the 50 pst requirement. of the crew residing in Norway, it is a bit too intrigued by law when we say that the master of the ship should also have to live in Norway. We believe that the skipper on a trawler can choose whether to live in Stockholm, Oslo, Ålesund or Las Palmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e582	I will follow up the representative Ingrid Heggø's line, so that we get it carefully: Is right for or against the county bond? And what does the Right – with what was said in the line to Ingrid Heggo – not work, as the arrangement is today? I would also like to be invited northwards to look at what is not working. One of the reasons why we, like the ministry, wanted that arrangement, is to secure Northern Norwegian ownership. It is important to ensure the raw material supply to processing plants in the rural part, which in turn will help to maintain the fishing environment. Does the Right agree with that wording?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e587	First, it is nice that the representative Hansen has found out that discussing formulations in law work can be both beneficial and productive. That must be allowed to be congratulated. So here's the thing -- a small example: when you're going to buy rights to fishing boats, as you do today, you have a market, and the rights are priced. When limiting the market, e.g.: in the case of county bonds, a different price is set for the rights. In some ship groups we see that it is actually problematic to finance the purchase of rights in the north relative to the south. Binding limits the market, lower the price, and more difficult to finance the purchase of these rights. She wants to see this, among other things. has led – if the representative Hansen on the now announced tour is okay and helps count pelagic rights that have gone out of North Norway and southwards to a better paying market outside where there are county bonds – that this has not been in favour of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e594	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e597	The maritime resource law objective paragraph has two key points: the fishing resources are the property of the community, and they are to be used for employment and coastal communities. These are objectives for which there is broad agreement in the political environment and among business operators. The Participant Law is an important tool to achieve these objectives. Attacks on the fundamental principles of participating laws may jeopardise the fundamental principles of Norwegian fisheries policy. They may invoke the principles laid down in the target formulations of the marine resource laws and other laws. Therefore, the preservation of the Participant Act is laid down in the Government Declaration of the Red-Green Government. The Red-Green Government has considered the Participation Act as one of the most important tools to ensure the basic objectives laid down in the Marine Resource Act. The matter we are about to deal with today is subject to adjustments in the law of participants, fishing prohibition laws and some other laws. The government has carried out a post-control of the laws to update and harmonise the legislation, but the basic principles are firm. Many changes are purely technical, such as the transfer of paragraphs to get a more transparent structure in the law. The Hearing Officers have generally been in favour of the amendments proposed. They have seen the proposal as an update of a law that must follow the practical developments in the industry. The government proposes to take a regulatory secret about when a person can refuse to acquire rights of consideration for the resource base or the district distribution of the fleet. Today, we have an integrated practice in this area, and it may be beneficial to get this practice laid down in a regulation to get a clearer implementation. SV is pleased that the government is continuing to bind the county in the law. This is necessary for the benefit of coastal communities, as is the objective of the Marine Resource Act. When the Progress Party proposes to repeal the first paragraph of Section 7, it is an attack on the fundamental principle that is enshrined in the marine resource law objective. The government proposes to increase the penalties for serious crime to six years in the Marine Resource Act. It has created a lot of debate. There may, therefore, be grounds for pointing out that the upper-criminal framework is intended for crime across borders, between several parties and over time. It is a penal framework that can be used in the fight against international fishing crime. With the updates that are now done, we get a functional law, which SV is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e612	It's going to be line change, limited to three lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e615	My question to the representative Holmelid is linked to the penalty level. I would like to ask for an explanation as to why the representative Holmelid believes that those who commit environmental crime or violations of the environmental regulations in the wildfish industry are to be penalised unimaginably much more severely than those in the aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e620	The underlying thing is that we want to get a tool to cope with international fishing crime, where several actors work together over a longer period of time for, among other things. destroying the resource base. It is an important matter that the government in this round has stressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e625	Then we're going to go to what's the main question, which I want to clarify here today: is this just a cross-border crime? This is important. If we read the comment from the government parties, which is very important, it says that this ‘not itself a signal of change’. [[...]] The representative will now be able to clarify for Stortinget in the further process: is this only applicable to cross-border crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e636	The aim is to have the possibility of taking cross-border crime. I'll leave you to the courts for further interpretation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e641	We are likely to try to clarify this: Is the representative Holmelid agreeing with me when I say that the criminal framework and the law enforcement are there to take cross-border and international crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e646	That's what's meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e651	That's the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e654	The issue of the Stortinget case today involves legislative changes in the law of participants and the Fishing Prohibition Act. The government has carried out a thorough review of the participant law with a view to updating and simplifying the legislation. Simplification is, as you know, a major field of activity for this government, and it has been one of the objectives of the work. The review has also been carried out with a view to assessing whether the law works as intended. Some of the proposed changes are purely updates and shifts from one law to another. The hearing bodies have consistently been in favour of the government's proposals, and it has been stated that the work must be seen as a legislative renewal. The majority of the Committee considers that the proposals promoted in the proposal are in line with current fisheries policy. Let me begin by saying that the platform in the Central Party's fisheries policy is firm. And so does it for the government. Fishing fleets are a guiding principle, and fishing resources should benefit the coastal population. The activity requirement is established. The same applies to residence requirements and county ties, as opposed to what the Right holds in this debate. That was interesting rounds we heard from the Right in the morning, and we're going to challenge that in more detail. Binding is important to maintain the resource base in the north. An overall committee is concerned with the predictability of industry and with legislation that is accessible and comprehensible to both management and industry. This is underlined in the comments on the matter. There is broad consensus that a combination of competent and forward-looking business operators and responsible, clear and rigorous management focusing on environmental sustainability has contributed to Norway’s appearance today as one of the world’s leading maritime states. The Participation Act was adopted in 1999 and replaces previous laws regulating participation in fishing and fishing. The aim of the Act is to adapt fishing fleet fishing capacity to the resource base in order to ensure the rational and sustainable exploitation of marine resources, as well as to increase industry profitability and value creation and through this safe settlement in coastal districts and to facilitate the exploitation of marine resources to the benefit of the coastal population. The Fishing Prohibition Act regulates access to fishing activities in Norwegian territorial waters other than Svalbard for persons who are not Norwegian nationals or who are equivalent to Norwegian nationals. Among the proposals made by the government in this proposal, there is a basis for laying down rules laying down when authorisations to fish for acquisition may be refused on the basis of the territorial distribution of the fishing fleet, on the basis of the resource base or on the basis of the other legal objectives. Today, it is primarily through knowledge of relevant administrative practices that actors can calculate in advance whether an application will be rejected on the basis of those considerations. Thus, a change proposed here will increase predictability for actors and must be regarded as an improvement in the law. The Government continues to believe that Nordic ownership is important to ensure raw material supply to processing plants in the rural part and will help maintain a fishing environment. It's a goal for the Center Party and the Red-Greens to prepare for a modern fishing fleet. A modern fishing fleet is environmentally efficient and climate friendly – and contributes to a better working environment and better fishing methods. The proposal to allow the use of leased vessels in the contracting of new buildings would be a good contribution to modernising the fleet in this way. The government has also proposed to harmonise the criminal provisions of the Participant Act with the newer Sea Resource Act, because it is natural to have a similar response legislation in these central fisheries laws. The background to fishing as an activity is an economic gain. Most fishing as a business activity in Norway are law-abiding and skilled economic operators. Fish include important values and thus involve high profit opportunities. In recent years, the government has been paying more attention to financial crime. Cross-border and organised crime is severely reduced by the Norwegian authorities, but also by the international community. In some cases, in order to cooperate with other countries in the fight against organised crime, it is essential that the criminal penalties for organised fishing crime meet the requirements of international legislation. The change in the law itself is not a signal of a change in the level of normal penalties. By increasing the penalties for serious breaches of the Sea Resource Act, the government is taking an important step in protecting Norwegian fishing industry. I would like to make it clear that minor infringements are not considered as gross infringements of the Sea Resource Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e690	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e693	I'm recording that the Center Party believes the Right now departs from the county bond. That's not right. But for the right, it's a little important that the limitations or the precepts of the law and the regulation meet the purpose of the law and the regulation. That's why we've seen it from the right as beneficial to get a review here to see if, for example, the binding of the county meets the purpose of the regulation. That's what I'm recording. The Center Party rejects blank. I assume that the central party probably knows that the county bond meets the purpose, and that that's what makes us retain the rights in the district. Can the representative explain why we have seen in the last two years that more than 20 pelagic rights have been sold out of the country and into a better paying market?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e700	The representative, Frank Bakke-Jensen, knows just as well as I do that it is not a federal commitment to pelagic rights – I guess that's what Right-wing Fisheries Commissioner is well aware of. But the concern that the pelagic rights are sold out of the country, we share with the Right. What is important is to ensure that the cod rights remain in the country. We are also committed to having – as we are given in the new maritime food communication – a structural basis that enables us to operate in both the cod and pelagic sectors. We are concerned that the resource base in the region should be there and be involved in developing the fisheries industry in the future. It is alarming that the right now hurts about the county bond. Bondage is very important because it both ensures the resource base in the country and contributes to keeping prices at a level with which we can live, including in terms of funding. If you get a release here, you're going to get an increased pressure and an increase in the price of the allowance base as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e709	Ida, the fishing policy spokesman in the Right knows that there is no county bond for pelagic rights, but it's now once so that the rights of a boat are related. It is also the case that a cod right has two different prices — one within the country and one outside the country. There are examples of shipowners who have had problems financing the purchase of, for example: the last right, the third right, for that right has had to be obtained outside the country. There's the more expensive one. Can the representative be with me in this picture? I believe that some of the pelagic rights that have been sold have actually been sold because those who had two cod rights and needed one more needed it to buy a third cod right. You couldn't fund it within the county. As soon as you take in the right, it's less valuable. So the bonding works against its purpose. Does the representative agree with me that there may be a model that fits sometimes?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e716	I would like to stress that for the Center Party, the county bond is stuck. Now we've got a new seafood report that's going to apply, and we're also going to change the structure of the fleet over 11 meters and the fleet over 15 meters. I am sure that we will have good experience with the arrangements we are now establishing. We do not want any free slips when it comes to the county bonding. We are committed to ensuring both the basis and favourable conditions for the industry in the future. To what Frank Bakke-Jensen said about funding: this has been claimed by industry. That is why we are concerned about listening to the experience of changing the structure of fleet groups over 11 metres.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e725	In the case of a territorially friendly fisheries policy, there is very much agreement between the policy of the Central Party and the policy of the Christian People's Party. I also think there is reason to stress that there is an important distinction between what the Right stands for here and what the Christian People's Party stands for. My question concerns this with a transfer in case of a generation change. Today, the requirement to bind families in the event of death does not apply. Does the Central Party believe that extending this to a generational shift in small fisheries enterprises is a threat to a regional friendly fisheries policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e733	Let me first say that I think it's gratifying that the Christian People's Party marks a distance from the Right and signals that you have a relationship with the Center Party – as important center parties. I appreciate that. It is important that we also have good contact in these areas in the future. As far as the representative here is concerned, the Centre Party is not willing to make changes relating to generational change, as has been done for inheritance in the event of death. We believe that a generation change can be planned. That is why we need to deal with the legislation that is in place. We are afraid that diluting the legislation we have today will have a negative impact on our coastal communities and, in particular, on the distribution of the counties we have. That is why, in the area of generation change, we do not want to go along with any changes to the legislation that we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e740	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e743	For generations, the Norwegian fishing industry has had a major impact on the communities along the coast and on the well-being of the whole country. Through the landing of high-quality raw materials, the fishing industry is the first paragraph of a value chain that constitutes a very important export industry for Norway. Marine nutrition is important both because of the high economic values generated and because of the ring-fence of the industry for coastal communities. Norwegian seafood is one of our most important exports, next to oil and gas. In 2012, 2.36 million tonnes of seafood were produced, with a total export value of 51.6 billion. kr, in Norway. It is not without a certain pride that I record that about a third of the value creation took place in More and Romesdal. Norway is now exporting seafood to 140 countries, in which case it is said that Norwegian seafood is dependent on stable framework conditions to maintain profitability and increase international market shares. A harmonised and transparent law is an important part of such perceived stability for industry. With regard to the issue under consideration today, many of the proposals are not controversial and in line with the already existing fisheries policy. Some of the challenges lie in that. The government points out that they have made a back-up with small, insignificant changes. It would have been more natural with a comprehensive review of the laws with a view to modernisation. Here I want to draw a different view of county bonds in terms of inheritance and generation change. The opposition stands united in a desire to make changes at this point in order to secure the small and medium-sized fishing boat companies. We do not see any good reason why generational shifts are to be assessed and treated in any other way than in the case of death inheritance. In addition, I record that several of the hearing bodies have expressed scepticism about the procedure chosen by the government, in particular regarding the changes to the law of the participant. The fishing team has, among other things: expressed the following: ‘Norges Fiskerlag is very puzzled by the Ministry’s procedure where the Ministry has carried out a revision of the Act of Attendance to then send it to the hearing.’ I would also like to address the change in this matter which is perhaps the most debated out in industry, namely the changes in the criminal framework related to the gross violation of the participant law and the marine resource law. Many in the industry have been – and are – skeptical of such a change. Some people feel suspicious, others feel that the new penal framework has increased unreasonablely. I feel a need to explain my assessments relating to this change, which I see as big and significant. As I see it, and as we have received repeated assurances in the opposition – by 8 March at the latest from the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs – the changes will have no impact on the level of penalties for ordinary infringements. Nor is it automatic that it will result in more stringent penalties for serious infringements. The change seems to be merely a change to follow up the fight against cross-border organised crime. A part of that fight is to adapt Norwegian legislation to meet the requirement of what is considered to be a serious crime within the UN Convention against Transboundary Organised Crime. In other words, the penalty for serious infringements must be at least four years in prison. In order to keep down the number of criminal penalties, the same penalties are proposed as for serious environmental crime, i.e. six years. No one gets out worse, no one gets suspicious, no one gets punished harder. The only people who should now sleep worse at night are those who run cross-border organized crime. Finally, I would like to make it clear that there is a need for an overall review of the laws, charges and criminal provisions of the Fisheries Code. Many feel that they are being penalised disproportionately, and we see examples of criminal reactions not having the necessary legitimacy of the population and of the professionals themselves. Such a review is needed to ensure consistency between criminal reactions and the severity of the offence. This may be the most important step to ensure that the applicable legislation has the necessary legitimacy out there. In conclusion, I am pleased that the fisheries policy has been given so much attention this spring, through a number of propositions, communications and representative proposals. This industry is clearly one of Norway’s most important industries, and unlike the petroleum industry, it will also be in the foreseeable future, with a sustainable use of resources. An industry for the future deserves a forward-looking policy. I hope we will see examples of the next few weeks and months.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e765	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e768	I recorded that the Christian People's Party believed that the Central Party and the Christian People's Party were close in the fisheries policy. I cannot say that it appears in the handling of this matter. However, in a joint comment with the Progress Party and the Right under the Chapter on ownership bonds, it appears that the Christian People's Party believes it is important to facilitate minimum public restrictions on the establishment and development of the fishing industry. It is concluded that this will also apply to the sale of fishing vessels. This must be understood as meaning that the Christian People's Party is against county bonds even by sale. Does the representative believe that these are the right measures to further develop the fishing industry in the north? Does the representative really think that the county ties linked to fisheries should be removed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e773	I record that the Workers' Party has today decided to file as little as possible on the wording and will then replicate saying that it is possible to put a little different meaning into the words – we might see that here. The position of the Christian People's Party is minimal given that we should continue to take care of the territorial distribution of the fishing fleet, the consideration of the resource base or the purpose of the law for the rest.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e778	It is a well-known fact that the Progress Party and the Right want to give priority to the free market forces rather than to other considerations such as resource conservation and, not least, county ownership, and that we still have a pressure on the participation laws of those parties to modify the county bonds. Now we see that the Christian People's Party has gotten into that company a little bit, even if they're trying to calm down a little bit. But in order to be entirely concrete, can we be sure that the Christian People's Party is committed to state bonds?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e783	The Christian People's Party has taken up in dealing with this proposition is that we want a change in the matter of generation change. I like the question so that I can clarify it. In this respect, it is likely that there will be contrasts of contrast between the opposition parties, but for the Christian People's Party, the approach is that we want this extended to include generational shifts in order to facilitate the transition between the generations of small and medium-sized enterprises in the fisheries industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e788	I still don't think it's clear what the Christian People's Party's position on county bonds is. That's why I'm going to challenge the Christian People's Party to explain what the differences are in the Christian People's Party's attitude to state bonds and what we hear from the Right, which is now concerned with easing the opportunities that lie there. Then I would ask the Christian People's Party to clarify what attitudes they have to how to secure the raw material base in the north if you want further relaxation on the county bonds, for which right here has become a spokesman.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e793	I think almost the best answer is to read out that proposal, which is a joint proposal from the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party: ‘In accordance with the first subparagraph, provisions may not be laid down as regards the requirement of residence preventing the taking over of vessels for the continued operation of their inheritance or generational change by the person covered by the first and second sentences of the second subparagraph of Article 7.’; When the government parties are trying to construct that the Christian People's Party is going for major changes to the principle of county bonding, it is, as I said, a reconstructed issue with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e803	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e807	The government has put forward a legislative proposal on changes to the participant law, the Fishing Prohibition Act and some other laws. The background is that the Ministry has carried out a post-control of the 1999 Act of Participation and a review of the 1966 Fisheries Prohibition Act. The purpose of the follow-up to the Participant Act has been to examine the functioning of the Act as intended and to propose improvements where necessary. The aim of the review of the Fishing Prohibition Act has been to assess whether individual provisions of the Act are still needed or whether they should be moved to other fisheries legislation. The Ministry’s work has resulted in a variety of legislative proposals. These proposals are mutually independent and will contribute to a more up-to-date and modern regulatory framework. This involves simplification that will make the legislation more accessible to both management and industry. Let me then focus on a few of the most central and mentioned proposals in the bill. The Government proposes to make changes to the different response provisions of the Participant Act, so that they are harmonised with the newer Sea Resource Act. These are different types of reactions such as infringement fee, periodic penalty payments and penalties. In my view, this is a major step forward. There is no reason to have different response legislation in these two central fisheries laws. In addition, the government proposes to increase the criminal penalties for serious crime in the marine resource law from three to six years. It is proposed that when assessing whether an infringement is serious, consideration should be given to the cross-border nature of the infringement, i.e.: of an international nature. The proposal means that the penalties framework will be more consistent with other legislation aimed at environmental crime and economic crime. The aim of increasing the criminal penalties for serious crime is to better facilitate Norway’s participation in the fight against international fishing crime. This is in line with the government's action plan on economic crime. In order to cooperate well with other countries in this area, it is necessary to adapt the criminal framework to the requirements of the UN Convention against Transboundary Organised Crime. It is important for me to stress that the proposal does not affect the level of penalties for ordinary infringements of the marine resource law. Nor does it have to result in a stricter level of penalties in all individual cases of serious infringements. The objective is, once again, primarily to target serious international fishing crime. It is in organised and international crime that the use of the new criminal framework will be relevant. Moreover, it would be up to the courts to find the right level of penalties within the proposed framework. The legislative proposal contains several proposals that will make the legislation both more flexible and predictable for the industry. The Government proposes that it be opened for the use of leased vessels for the contracting of new buildings. This proposal will make it easier for shipping companies to conclude contracts for the construction of new fishing vessels. This, in turn, will help us get a more modern Norwegian fishing fleet, and hopefully also contribute to an even better recruitment to Norwegian fishing fleet and thus to the seafood industry. Funding new construction of fishing vessels can be a major challenge for fishing boat companies. A vessel will often be the sole operating medium of the fishing boating company of greater value. It may therefore be essential that the vessel be sold at a time when favourable prices can be obtained. The government's proposal here provides companies with greater flexibility in this way without having to go beyond the current fishing activity. I have proposed to include in the Participant Act a basis for laying down detailed rules on when permits to fish for acquisition may be refused on the grounds of the territorial distribution of the fishing fleet, the consideration of the resource base or the other purpose of the law. Administrative practices in this area have developed for a long time to help achieve the overall objectives of the fisheries policy. Then I have registered that representatives from the Progress Party during the committee reading have proposed to repeal Section 7, first paragraph, point (a) as it reads today. This provision provides the basis for refusing to grant a fishing authorisation in the light of the territorial distribution of the fishing fleet, the consideration of the resource base or the purpose of the law for other purposes. I can assure you that this proposal by the Progress Party is not a topical policy for this government. The current legislation is a central instrument of government policy, and forms among others. the basis for current practices ensuring that cod trawlers and purse seine vessels cannot be sold from North Norway to South Norway. What is important to me is that we facilitate this practice to be set out in regulations after consultation. This will allow industry and other stakeholders to record in the consultation round how the instruments should be used. And it will create greater predictability for industry by making practice available in regulation. I must also be allowed to thank the representative of Nesvik for the work done by the government, through many fisheries councils, in connection with the UUU fishing. But in the light of that thank you, which I accept and will pass on to everyone who has earned it, it seems even more strange that the Progress Party is voting against perhaps the most important instrument we have to continue this important work. I expect that we will have the opportunity to clarify it in a row, but to me this seems a little strange. The sum of what is being dealt with today will be an important contribution to the ongoing development and improvement of Norwegian fisheries legislation, so that we can continue to work for the world's leading maritime nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e841	It's going to be line change. For the time being, there's only one signed replicator, and that's Steinar Reiten. The President has not registered others, but now they come in after the Council of State has finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e848	In the preparation of Prop. 59 L, which we are dealing with today, sent out a hearing note, dated 8 May 2009. In this consultation note, the Ministry proposed to increase the penalties for serious infringements of the law of the participant from prison for up to six months to prison for up to three years. The opinion of the Fiskerlage expresses strong scepticism about this proposal. That's what it says. ‘It is the view of the Fisheries Team that fishermen have been subjected to unnecessary harsh responses to infringements of the fisheries legislation and that many of the reactions have neither been legitimate nor understood by fishermen and that the reactions have been disproportionately severe in the context of the infringement’. Following the end of the hearing, the Ministry decided to add to the proposal a further tightening of the penalty framework in the event of a serious infringement of the participant law for six years. Does the Council of State see the accident in such a procedure and that it can be seen as a complete overrun by one of the main hearing bodies?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e859	I do not see this in the sense that the points that were sent to the hearing were, of course, familiar to the Fiskerlage. We were also familiar with their view of punishment. I have had a dialogue with the Fisker Team in many contexts related to penalties and response patterns in fisheries legislation. I must admit that I am still in doubt whether the level of penalties you disagree with or whether it is the enforcement and exercise of fishing – the reactions of the daily activity. What we are proposing here is nothing more dramatic than a little harmonisation of the penalties imposed by the Sea Resource Act with other economic and organised crime, which we already have in other legislation today. Very often, these cases may have more breaches, more crimes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e866	I can reassure the President that I had asked for the word in reply, but obviously the system has not worked after the intention. So to my question to the Council of State. Firstly, I can assure the Council of State that the Progress Party has stated in its comments that we wanted the comprehensive review before we went to change the punishments, so it has nothing to do with us being against the penalty level, but we thought that an overall review had to be taken first. My question to the Council of State is asked, so that we can finally put to death what is involved in gross infringement. In Section 31, second paragraph, several things are listed. These include: the financial value of the infringement, whether it has occurred systematically over time, whether the infringement is of a cross-border nature and whether the infringement has occurred as part of organised activities. My question to the Council of State is whether all of these points are equal. Is it true that if it is not cross-border – and that is what the court will decide – then this paragraph should not be applicable?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e879	First of all, let me stress – and it is important – that the level of penalties for the ordinary infringements of the Sea Resource Act is fixed and not affected by the proposal. I think everyone now sees that. Then there is also another law relating to activity. For economically organised crime, there is now a six-year penalty framework in Norway. So if we don't raise the penalty framework related to the Marine Resource Act, fishermen can still face a six-year penalty framework related to other things. Often, a crime is compounded. It is not certain that there is always just a breach of the Sea Resource Act. Then there is no doubt that the starting point and the reasons for this proposal are linked to cross-border crime. It's been underlined many times, and I'd like to underline it again. But then, of course, there is much up to the courts to enforce this legislation and these penalties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e886	I will not pursue this further even if I do not feel that it is finally clarified. I want to ask the Council of State about the difference between inheritance and generation change. Here, there is sometimes a problem related to what happens if you want to transfer to the next generation. Then it is linked to the county bonding problem. In the case of inheritance – i.e. after death – there is no entry into the case. But if you choose to transfer the ship or the company to the next generation, you can be met by the county bond issue. What is the reason why the government wants to have a difference between these two things?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e893	First of all, it's like the county bond only applies to the conventional fishing for cod north of 62 degrees. As I have informed the Committee about earlier in the discussion of this matter, we have not recorded that there is a problem related to generational shifts. There is no doubt that it is possible to fill the law with all the rules of the world, but to make a rule for a problem that does not exist, I did not think it was the wish of the Progress Party. On the contrary, I think we should rather look at whether it is possible to simplify and simplify the legislation in this area if possible. Then I just have to repeat that we have not registered that it is a practical problem related to generation change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e898	Then I have to ask the question again to the Council of State: why has it been regulated by inheritance? You've actually done that, because you've said it doesn't apply. What you've done through this is you distinguish between inheritance and generation change. So obviously, the Council of State's own argument falls on rock because you've regulated what's going on with inheritance. It has been said that the binding does not apply. My question is why there is a difference in this matter between inheritance and generation change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e903	It's possible that I'm a simple soul from the coast, but it's quite obvious to me. You plan a generation change, you plan it in a good way. In between, inheritance can happen a little abruptly, and then we've opened up so that you don't have to leave everything you have because if you live in another place. But at the time of generation change, this is not a problem, and then I don't see the need for us to make a rule that we don't need.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e908	No, we're not going to make a rule for something we don't need, but you don't know that need until you might have checked out. It has been highlighted by the industry that it would have been a simplification if you could look at it like this with a generation change. But enough about it. As far as county bonds are concerned, I need to talk to the Council of State. We were attacked by the Center Party, SV and the Workers' Party because the Right now went away from the county bond. I have to make it clear that that's not true. But there are examples of some unfortunate outcomes of the county bonding, as I described in my post. Does the Council of State see the need to be able to look more closely at county ties and whether current practices and the reality of the day meet the purpose of county ties? Could it be something that might be interesting to go into more detail?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e916	I am going into any discussion that makes sense for a further development of the Norwegian industry. In the case of the county binding, it is fixed – point. It is an important tool to maintain a fleet in North Norway, which again serves the industry. I am very pleased that the Right confirms that they do not agree with the Advance Party there either, as in some other areas. It was an important and good clarification. So this is related to the cod sector. We may also have to look at this in the pelagic sector, because we see examples indicating that Pelagic rights are being moved south as we would like to have in North Norway, given the industry and the activity that is going to take place there. So I'm going to discuss anything, but the county bonds are stuck.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e923	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e928	There has been an interesting debate on the points on which you actually disagreed. I just need a few clarifications. With regard to the proposals for changes to the position that the Progress Party will vote against here, they are linked up to what I said in my previous post, and I repeat it, so it is said that it is because the government has chosen not to carry out a comprehensive review of the criminal evaluation and the level of penalties, especially in the wildfish sector, and that it has chosen to put itself on the line that you have. That it might make sense to look at the participant law and the marine resource law and find an approach there, it could be. But with a background in the issues we have, among other things, has seen in the judicial system relating to judges and appeals by judges, where the level of penalties in the sector may appear unreasonable in some cases, the Progress Party believes that the overall review should have been carried out first. Then some have been involved in what is said about county bonds – in fact, especially related to the Christian People's Party and the Right. The issue of county bonds is linked to the master and what to do with the residence requirement in the case of county bonds linked to the generation change problem. I, the undersigned, find it very unreasonable, at least, to have to leave their home to take over the business of their own family, which has been built up, if you do not live in the proper state. By inheritance is not the case. I am also very pleased that the Council of State and several members of the European Parliament have stated that an increase in the criminal framework – an increase related to gross infringements – will only apply in the event of cross-border crime. We've tried to say that in several line changes here. Only where there is cross-border crime shall this paragraph be applicable. And then we'll see what the legal system does in that respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e939	I took the floor because I think that the Progress Party in this debate is trying in many ways to evade its responsibilities in view of the remark they are not in, which concerns the penal framework for gross breach of the marine resource law. It is also strange given that the Progress Party has a good reputation for being the law-and-order party. I believe that we all have a responsibility to make it clear that fishing crime is highly undesirable behaviour towards one of Norway's most important assets. The criminal penalties for serious environmental crime are six years in the penal code, as has been said today. We believe that the lifting of this penal framework for the most serious breaches of the marine resource law is a natural continuation of the criminal framework, where particularly serious environmental crime is in the penal code. I can't see why it wasn't possible for the Progress Party to stand behind this serious area. It would also have been quite possible to have a note next to that that went on a full review. I think it is amazing that today we are told that the Progress Party is in many ways in favour of the content that has been debated here today in terms of the criminal framework, but thus chooses to stand outside in the comments on the grounds that you want a review. It would have been quite possible to write in a separate note.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e948	Here we can keep going for a long time if you can't accept the answer that's given. I'll try again to explain why we give that vote. We do not oppose punishment. What we're going to go against is whether we're going to make this change in the participant law now. The applicable criminal evaluation shall apply. The applicable criminal law that stands in all other laws relating to financial crime and everything that is lies there and will capture this part. The question is whether we should now, without taking a complete review, put this piece into the law, as suggested here. It is not a question of not punishing people for environmental crime, for economic crime. It's already in the other laws. What the Progress Party has said is that we now need to carry out a comprehensive review of the criminal investigation and what goes on fines, fines and penalties, etc. before we start snoring at one point in the future. We want an overall review. Economic crime is already in the law and can be punished. The Sea Resource Act is already in place. The question is whether to include the same name in this law. Now I hope the representative Hansen understands the background to our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e957	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e963	Then the Storting is ready to go voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e973	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 4, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘Law 26 March 1999 No 15 on the right to participate in fishing and fishing [[Act of Participation]] Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review the legal certainty of Norwegian fishermen, including a review of the consistency of criminal reactions with the seriousness of the offence and whether the legislation provides sufficient predictability, and to present a case to the Storting.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e1519	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to the first paragraph of Section 5a of the new Article 5a and proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 15 on the right to participate in fishing and fishing shall be amended as follows: the first paragraph of Section 5a shall be replaced by the following: § 5a Requirements for the place of residence The use of vessels shall be prohibited if not at least half of the crew and the pilots are resident in a coastal municipality or in a neighbouring municipality of a coastal municipality.» [[Act of Participation]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e1541	Alternatively, between the appointment of the Committee to Section 7, first paragraph, and proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 26 March 1999 15 on the right to participate in fishing and fishing is amended as follows: § 7 Special provisions on acquisition authorisation [[Act of Participation]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e1568	The Committee's position shall then be reviewed in accordance with Sections 28, 29, 31 and 31a. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e1582	A vote shall be taken on the remainder of the Committee's position on I and II-VI.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e1592	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e1602	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-16.ana.ud336e1806	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
