ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e119	The representatives of Sylvi Graham, Lise Christoffersen, Jørund Rytman, Anette Trettebergstien, Susanne Bratli and Ingjerd Schou, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. Applications for sick leave are submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Marianne Aasen from 29 April until further notice. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of Akershus County, Anita Orlund, there is an application for a waiver to meet in Stortinget on Tuesday 30 April under the permission of the representative of Marianne Aasen, for reasons of well-being. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representatives of Akershus County, Anita Orlund and Siri Hov Egg are proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Anita Orlund is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e168	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the Stortinge meeting this week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Uppøen Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen is unanimously elected president of this week’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e180	The representative of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e183	It just feels a little awkward to put forward a proposal for a representative now: it's from Frank Bakke-Jensen, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, Jan Tore Sanner, Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself to give people outside the workplace a new chance.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e188	The President can assure the representative that we already have some Document 8 proposals for consideration. This proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that today's meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e206	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and four lines with replies from members of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e217	The Communication of Perspectives should focus on the long-term consequences of today's policy decisions and outline a general policy direction. The notification provides a fairly detailed description of where we stand today, and what developments will affect the Norwegian economy in the long term. Let me give you some examples. change in population and life expectancy labour input and productivity phase-out of petroleum activities in the long term international economy climate change Our starting point is in the message described as well. Norway is a safe and good country to live in. We have succeeded in combining high value creation with small differences. Wealth is more evenly distributed and income differences are less inherited than in most other countries. We have extensive public welfare schemes funded through a fissure layer. The state finances are solid. The combination of good growth capacity, even distribution and public schemes are characteristics of our social model, and are something we should be proud of together. And in addition, we're productive. Norway has had a higher productivity growth than many other countries in the last 20 years. In recent years there have been more «ruskets», I would say, to use a separate expression. Growth in productivity has fallen or declined somewhat since 2006 — increased after the financial crisis — but is now rising again. That's good, because it's an important indicator. The analyses in the Perspective Communication also show that we are facing challenges in other areas in the coming years. We live longer, that's good. Increased life expectancy is a sign of a good society. But it challenges the sustainability of public finances if we don't do the job over the life cycle anymore. If we continue today's work and the welfare arrangements this collapse has decided to put ourselves behind, we need to increase revenue in public budgets or cut other expenditures equivalent to 6 pst. by the value creation of the mainland economy up to 2060. I think there's a lot of consensus in the hall about what challenges lie ahead of us. The debate is more about how we, as a nation, should equip ourselves to meet these in the future. The majority believe that the challenges are best addressed in the framework of the Norwegian model and with a responsible use of oil money. The revenues from petroleum activities are transitory, but could benefit future generations by spending no more than the income from the State pension fund abroad. It is not the primary pension fund to safeguard our well-being in the future, but the value of our joint efforts in the labour market. The high participation rate in employment in Norway compared to Europe is mainly due to more women and older jobs. High levels of gender equality, good maternity leave arrangements, birth rate and full childcare have contributed to women working more than in very many other countries. Although female employment rates are high, there is still a significant potential to facilitate the full-time work of more women who wish to do so. That is why I am pleased that we are doing this work. The government has recently launched a number of new measures to combat involuntary part-time work, including a statutory right to a job share that is in line with how much you actually work. Another potential that can meet the financing needs of the future is to get people to work longer. The number of expected years of retirement for a newborn has increased by nearly nine years since 1967 and until 2011. The reform of pensions, which is behind all the parties on the Stortinget, with the exception of the Progress Party, aims to reverse the trend in which the labour market is getting shorter and shorter. The new pension tax rules introduced in 2011 also make it easier to combine work and pensions. The reform of the labour market and the so-called IA work facilitate the combination of work and social security. Therefore, whether this reform works as intended, let us not be afraid, but let us be inspired, in the sense that the employment effect will significantly reduce the future need for public budgets to be covered. In report No. 22/2011 by the SSB, the reform is estimated to increase the number of hours worked by around 7 pst in 2050. The impact of the reform will, however, be able to reduce the coverage demand of government budgets from 6 p.m. to dry 2 pst. I'm not saying this to paint the situation, but to show that it's the value of people joining the work force -- either that we who are healthy work a little longer than today, or that we get new groups into the working life -- that will be the key to whether we can also say in the future that we have the sustainability of the well-being we grant ourselves. There has been a lot of discussion over the last few weeks on labour immigration to Norway, and it has increased sharply in recent years. I think we must be able to say that many of the missions performed in Norwegian society today could not have been done if we had not had labour immigration. It has been a good thing for Norway in the short term. Some say that immigration to Norway should save the welfare state in the long term. I do not agree with that. It is also clear from the perspective of the Communication that importing labour migrants into Norway is not the solution to the financing challenges in the future. I would say that in this way that labour immigration does not solve or exacerbate the situation in the long term. The report shows that immigrants coming to Norway — when everything other than the labour market is equal — are gradually becoming the Nordics the most. I have just pointed out that by 2050 we have an unmet need for funding, even if you only count on the work of everyone who lives in Norway today. So the answer to this field too is that it has been successful in the short term, but we depend on getting more people to work longer and to stand longer in the workplace, also by immigrants. The last thing I want to point out and underline before I link any comments to the opposition's comments is that in the future we have to do what has made Norway what we are today. We must have an open, competitive market economy at the bottom, with a resilient, well-qualified workforce and a large, comprehensive public sector. It can, no matter how you turn it around, become much more productive of course, but compared to very many other countries it is an efficient public sector, and a sector that is characterized by a high degree of conversion here as well. I mention some reforms in recent years: the quality reform of higher education, the Nav reform, the Cooperation reform and technology projects in many public institutions. We need to do more of this work, but we need to remember that in the public sector, work is the most important input in most areas in which we are involved. There are limits to the speed or effectiveness of care for the elderly in Norway, because it is now about being close and caring and being present for people in their last days. It is also a major concern that – although it is a potential for technology also in the care of the elderly and other sectors, we are not going to avoid it – it is human care that is the important thing. Then it's hard to imagine how much more efficiency you can imagine. I have mentioned some of the ways we can meet the challenges of the future. Then I hope for contributions from the opposition that do not paint the situation today, nor do I black paint how Norway can meet the challenges by 2050. I have registered, and it also says in the setting, that some attempts have been made to gather about some comments and areas. I have to say, I'm not very impressed. It builds up, side up and down, I'd say, with many nice suggestions that you already agree on. It may not be the most difficult thing in life to write about something you already agree on. I have to admit that when I sat down and read the comments when these were presented at the end of the committee procedure, I thought, "Well, I'm sorry, now I think maybe they've manned up to agree on some of the things they disagree on. But when someone comes to that chapter, it's -- yeah, I shouldn't say it, but someone might call it -- a stomachache. Because when you come to the rule of action, whether it applies or not, you don't agree. When it comes to whether climate change is a challenge for Norway and the world, there is no consensus. It is not agreed whether or not immigration is a resource for Norway. It is not even agreed that it is a political objective to ensure small differences and even distribution. We can hope that the debate may help to clarify some of these questions. By doing so, I recommend the financial committee's proposal for a decision in the deadline for the 2013 notification of the perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e261	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e264	I think it was the occasion for the black paint of the opposition in the last part of the article, but I will leave it. There has been an important debate on how we use our oil wealth to improve future growth capacity in the Norwegian economy. Today's government believes that oil wealth should only be invested abroad. The Progress Party believes that it should also be able to open up the possibility of investing it in socially viable assets. From the red-greens, a lot of people have heard that it's not possible to define one thing to be an asset, because where are the divisions, etc. But in the perspective communication, it actually says a chapter on assets: «Investment decisions in the public sector are taken in the light of assessments other than purely business profitability. Although the cost of capital use can be measured in the same way as in the private sector, a project based on actual payments in a market cannot always estimate the benefits.’» In order to make good investment decisions in general government, this means that one must also build on other things — benefits and disadvantages. How can it be that in this whole debate on the use of oil wealth, one is unable to deal with what the government itself writes in the perspective statement, and where one is able to define assets?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e280	I'm going to get to that, but in a debate where you're going to see 50 years ahead – how the decisions we're making today will affect what Norway looks like in 2050 – I think it might be more appropriate to discuss how much more we're going to spend on today's wealth, versus what we're using today. I remember spending over 100 billion dollars. kr of the Oil Fund every year to cover both investments and things we have granted ourselves today. Then, in my opinion, it is irresponsible not to say anything about the fact that there is quite a lot of money. You should point out at 2050 and say that we've given ourselves even a little bit more this year. I understand that the Progress Party believes that it should be used for investment, but it is a very demanding balance and discussion that I think will be more technical than practical when you see 50 years ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e287	The development of productivity is over time central to the welfare level of society, as reported by the government, and it appears that the representative Micaelsen has joined it. But there's been developments under the red-green government. Since 2006, we have had lower productivity growth than our competitors, and we have fallen to a very low level. A paradox has been revealed, both through the consultation and in the perspective communication, because the perspective report states that private sector productivity growth does not specifically address the need for containment. Ergo, we say something about the overall productivity of society and of the public sector that is central to the further well-being. How, then, can the government vote down our proposal to speed up and develop good productivity indicators in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e292	I fully agree that some reason Norway is where we are today is that there has been a connection between the level of wages and welfare we have allowed ourselves to use, and the way we solve problems in society. The fact that we have had a private sector, and also partly a public sector, which, year after year, has managed to solve things smarter, faster and more efficiently, has helped us to live at a slightly higher cost level than many of the countries with which we compete. In part, we have a much higher cost level than in other countries. With regard to the proposal that Gundersen points to, I do not know it, as I have been home this winter. I must almost be allowed to see the proposal before I answer Gundersen in a reverential way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e299	The proposal that the opposition has on productivity indicators is probably after the representative Micaelsen got his stomach pad. That is probably why he did not come as far as that proposal in the vote. My question to the Micaelsen is as follows: I fully agree that inclusion in working life will be a prerequisite for a good development of wealth – that we ensure that as many people as possible are in the workplace. The representative mentioned the current work. do here. But then we have a big challenge. If we look at the younger disabled group, we see that the employment rate has fallen in the last year – from 44 pst. to 40 pst. In other words, what you say you're doing is going in the wrong direction. How does the representative explain this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e306	That's exactly what I have no good explanation for. I find the figures that appear to be very alarming. This may indicate that one of the side effects, of a negative nature, of the opening of new labour markets to old Eastern Europe, which is now included in the EEA area and which has contributed to the availability of a lot of labour, may be the displacement of what we call marginal groups in the labour market. This applies to people with disabilities more than anyone else, but it also applies to those who do not have health or who, for other reasons, do not want to be fully tired – to be in full-time employment all the time. It's very challenging. I mentioned a number of programmes that the State contributes to in this respect — despite the fact that Norway is better than many other countries. I think we just have to be able to say that here will be one of the great blows in the future. I will finally challenge the Christian People's Party not to be among the parties that have the line that we need to liberalize, soften, the law on workers' rights in society, but in future cooperation solutions rather strengthen them.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e317	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e321	Let me start by saying that very much is good in this country – a sign that the opposition is not thinking about black paint either, or the Advance Party. I have even put on a Norwegian flag today – to show that patriotism is important. However, it has to be pointed out that not everything is as rosy as the red-greens would want, and that is what we want to try to improve. There has been a growth in pay levels in Norway. There has been a growth in public funds. All of this means that things are going well – apparently. We're supposed to be happy about that. This debate is important, because here it points to the long-term challenges and choices we have in the Norwegian economy. It presents and discusses important developments in the economy and in our society, both at economic and human level. These are debates that are important to have. The main message of the government is, among other things, work ensures well-being. The Progress Party fully agrees with this. It is to confusion like what Ronald Reagan had as a statement: «I believe the best social program is a job.» Here you could say that we have a common inspiration. What already concerns me a little bit about this debate, however, is the rapporteur's statement. On the one hand, he says that he has read the opposition's proposals, comments, etc., and that he becomes a little worried. At the same time, he has obviously missed out on much of what is in the setting, when he has not got what is on page 28, that the opposition is promoting a common proposal. He claims that he has not been able to do this because he has been at home in cardboard. The proposal is contained in the document we are now debating and which he claims he has read. The second thing that makes the starting point poor — at least in view of the economic perspective of this debate — is that a sheep hears the discussion on capital. Investment in assets is one of the major factors in increasing productivity in society, in order to facilitate future economic growth and value creation. Thus, when describing what capital is and what it is important to include in the reporting of the bureaucrat's perspective, plus not always assessing whether something is socio-economically profitable, but also looking at what other perspectives this provides for the economy, the financial committee's leader does not manage to deal with this. For the Progress Party, precisely this debate is one of the key elements of the debate on how we use the economic space we have, to ensure that we invest more in capital, and that, at the same time, we tighten up and prioritise better with regard to all sorts of welfare schemes that give us joy here and now – which can be quite pleasant – but which do not contribute to increasing growth. If you think this is a siding in today's debate, it's not very much a perspective on what the Workers' Party delivers in this debate. I think that's sad. As mentioned, a lot is going well in Norway, and we're going to enjoy it. I've just been to Indonesia. For all intents and purposes, I'd rather stay stuck here for the rest of my life than live there, but there's also a fantastic development, which shows that trade and the market economy are part of the solution of getting people out of poverty. Having Norwegian enterprises investing in business, in value creation, is part of the solution for those countries that are struggling. But there was also a country where the infrastructure is not built up in line with the need, where the cooling costs are enormous, and where an investment in infrastructure rather than capital would undoubtedly improve the growth capacity of the country. When we look forward to this debate, we should not only be glad that things are going well in Norway, we should also look at the robustness of the economic development at the bottom here. Will our children and grandchildren be able to enjoy good viability – as we are doing today? If we don't see why things are going well today, and understand that, you won't be able to really assess what you have to do to make sure that we still have such a situation tomorrow. Many give the impression that the rule of action for the use of oil money is the primary factor in Norway’s success. Let me stress that the Advance Party agrees that we should have a good use of our oil wealth. It's important to make sure that you phase it into the economy, so that you don't just get the prices up. It is important to have a generation perspective on what you do. Therefore, the Progress Party agrees with the other parties on the civil side that there should be a restriction on how much of the oil money can be consumed in the public sector. But we disagree with the rest of the Storting to have a percentage rule that limits investment in socially profitable assets. There is no company in Norway today that would say the following: we have a good project, but we would rather postpone it for a few years, so we don't invest too much in a year. When you have a project that is profitable, you should implement it as quickly as possible – in order to enjoy it as quickly as possible. It has a long-term perspective. Oil money use has increased by about 10 years. 60 B.C.E. kr. Oil investments on Norwegian soil have increased by 120 billion in the last ten years. kr, i.e. twice as much. There is no rule as to how much oil investment can grow. This government spent only 20 days dealing with the Åsta Hansteen project, 55 billion. kr, but trying to spend more money on capital investment in the Norwegian economy via the State budget, it is said to be irresponsible. I don't see that context. There is a difference between spending money on consumption or on investment, but there is no difference whether the money is used to invest in oil or to get away with the press effect in the Norwegian economy. The return varies, it does. A little bit of what makes me worry is that the government doesn't see these differences itself, and thinks that it's the oil money usage of the state budget that has made the wealth possible, but at the same time ignores the fact that municipal debt has increased sharply just under the red-green government. In addition, loans-funded debt or liabilities in private households have also increased sharply. Thus, despite a huge increase in wages and salaries, the debt ratio in Norwegian households is now close to 200 pst. of the average wages and salaries – versus 120 pst. when the government took over. So here we have four factors that have been a huge catalyst into the Norwegian economy, which the government more or less ignores when describing the success – and gives the impression that this is about the rule of action for the use of oil money. I'm concerned when oil investments are nine times larger than investments in the mainland industry. I'm concerned when oil investments have tripled in ten years, while investments in the mainland industry have halved in the last few years. Then we have to look at the industry's framework conditions – make sure we don't feel so rich that we can say as the good Communist Aslak Sira Myhre said: We think we have so much milk in this country that we can shoot the cow. When a gas-based aluminium plant wants to establish itself in Norway but is referred to other countries, something is wrong. When this government has previously wanted to steer young people away from petroleum-related education, what creates values has not been seen. When you've ended up fighting the shipping companies all the way to the Supreme Court, where the government lost, you don't have respect for those who create the values. When one introduces an industrial power system that is so bad that no actors want to use it, but rather goes into the power market – as the government thought was bad itself – it is something wrong. When one gets the highest level of public employment in Europe but is unable to win any gold in McKinsey's unrelenting excellence in public service quality, one also shows that there is an improvement potential. Right then, one should discuss how to invest better in the public sector in order to make those who work there more productive. Rather, the progress will provide doctors, nurses and teachers with better tools so that they can become better and more productive rather than boasting that you have hired more and more people. For us, there is no certainty that the cooperation reform will be resolved by considering fax guards in Norwegian hospitals, or when you look at the NRK, that the Polish police will receive financial support to buy better tools to halve the response time, while the police in Asker and Bærum can only shed tears to ensure that they have not received the same. Thus, there is the possibility of streamlining the public sector without weakening the service provision, but simply making individual employees there more productive, but then one must be able to see the difference between investment and consumption. Similarly, we should become a little more aware of the growth of employment. It is very gratifying that there are more than 300,000 more people working today than ten years ago. The trend shift came in the summer of 2003 during the Bondevik government. Then the number of hours of work started to rise, and from 2004 employment started to rise. The SSB in its report 1/2011, Economic Analysis, showed that oil investments were the main driving force. What worries me is that in the last few years, the employment of the Nordics has started to decline, while there is a continuing growth in the employment of foreigners. There is something wrong in this economy when we disapprove of our own and just replace them with outside labour. It's not the fault of the workers, but it has something to do with how we set up our systems, and I think that both the individual norwegian and Norwegian economies would have benefited from us making sure that more norwegian people come to work. Then we have to take action to do this, and it is described in our remarks. What the Progress Party says is that one in high school needs to enable those who are able to get a practical education to get them out of work. We need to stimulate the apprenticeship system in a better way. The Progress Party has proposed this in our alternative state budget without hearing about it. Infrastructure appropriations are also about the same thing, distinguishing consumption from investment. They boast of a Yes, we're very happy about that, but one should be honest enough to say that part of that increase is also about one having VAT-casual road construction that makes a cost driver income to the state. Then you wonder yourself. With this, the Progress Party takes up the proposals we are part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e368	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has addressed the proposals he referred to. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e373	The representative of Solvik-Olsen compared his contribution to Norway with a company and managed to say that there is no company with good projects that will lend back and say that one cannot invest too much in a year. As a nation and as politicians to take account of a macro-image, it is quite clear that it is possible to spend too much money and that the result will be increased costs, which will be very serious for Norwegian competitive industry. If you look at this historically and at the party's relationship to the rule of action, it might not be so strange. When the rule of action was adopted, the representative was Siv Jensen, head of the Financial Committee. At the time, the Progress Party wrote in its comments: ‘It is too one-sided focus on the demand side of the economy and the framework conditions for the traditional mainland industry.’ I would like to ask the representative Solvik-Olsen if he shares the analysis from Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e383	The Progress Party sees that the economy consists of both a demand page and an offer page, and then one has to see how one can also take action to adapt the offer page. One can – as Carl I. Hagen has argued for all the way – import labour and would like them to work during the North Sea Tour. It's not because you have to pay them badly, it's not about salary levels, but it's about working conditions, just like the North Sea workers. Get them to Norway and let them work effectively for two weeks, then they can go home, and then there will be a new ‘crew’ – then one can actually increase the supply side of the economy. If one then just says no, we don't think we can influence the offer side, and that the oil money usage is just about the demand side, yes, you get the Labour Party conclusion: a lot of projects have to be put away. The progress party says that here you can actually have a dynamics. If the projects are large enough, a foreign company will offer its services into the Norwegian economy. Then you can actually increase your capacity and implement the project faster, which improves your growth capacity. Once the project is built, the pressure in the Norwegian economy has actually been reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e388	Through the UN, the world community has gathered that the main challenge for sustainable development is the fight against international poverty, reductions in natural diversity, man-made climate change and the spread of environmental pollutants. For the Progress Party, this does not seem to be obvious. In particular, the party cast doubt on the conclusions of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change that our climate problems are man-made and the consequences. The special comment of the Progress Party says that this may have something to do with it, but they also show that others claim it is not that serious. The proposal for a programme to be examined at the national meeting states that the party is skeptical of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change because the critical voices do not escape. My question to Solvik-Olsen is very specific: Does the Progress Party agree with the climate panel's analyses and conclusions that man-made greenhouse gas emissions represent one of the greatest challenges of our time and the consequences it might have for Norwegian and international environmental and climate policies in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e395	This is starting to be a bit of a pleasant debate, because obviously SV has decided that they will challenge the Progress Party on this throughout the election campaign. Although we give them answers in debate after debate – at the latest at the Renewable Conference in Bergen, Audun Lysbakken got a response – they repeat the question. What the Progress Party says is, of course, that there is a correlation between CO2 emissions and the climate – that is almost all in agreement. There are very few scientists who believe that CO2 does not affect the climate. This debate is about how much one affects the climate. Per-Willy Amundsen has said that I have said that, Siv Jensen has said that. What we're protesting about is when SV always emphasizes that these are the worst possible scenarios to deal with. What we're protesting about is that Kristin Halvorsen in his 2007 national meeting said that everyone who asks questions, everyone who has alternative views, was bought and paid by the oil industry. We want to stimulate an open debate. It says in our principal programme that we should conduct a policy where we also contribute to cutting CO2 emissions, and then we need to have a discussion about how we do it in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e409	All parties apart from the Progress Party state in a note that it is a political goal to ensure even distribution not only because it is important for individuals but also because small economic differences and access to basic well-being create a better society for all. The Progress Party has chosen to express itself entirely differently in its own notes, dissociating itself from distribution policy solutions: ‘These members therefore believe that social governance should focus as much as possible on ‘rearing a larger cake’ instead of dividing the already baked one.’ Is it, then, that the Progress Party does not think it is a political goal to ensure a balanced distribution of the well-being of society? Is the Progress Party not satisfied that Norway is not only the country with the highest well-being, but also one of the countries with the best distribution of well-being?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e419	This is about the entrance to the debate. For the Progress Party, it is worrying when child poverty has increased during today’s government. Then we don't become admired just because one expresses rhetorically that distribution policy is important. The focus of the Progress Party is to ensure that a cookie gets the best possible within good environmental and resource frameworks. The important thing is not that you have the most equal distribution of the cake, but that you have a smaller cake. The progress party believes that if one in a situation makes sure that the cake is baked higher, one will also get a greater difference between the poor and the rich. The few who like to get in the front line and get very rich by moving the economy on – like Bill Gates and the like – will make all these ways a calculating equality, the Gini coefficient, for example, come out crooked. For us, it is more important to ensure that a person has targeted measures that make today's poor out of poverty, which has not been achieved by today's government. Then it's more important to look at the actual situation of the individual and not have a smaller cake, but have a larger cake evenly distributed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e424	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e427	Norway is in an incredibly favourable and unique situation. We have large natural resources, there is a high level of competence, a adaptive business and a well-organised working life. It's important to say that, because there's a lot of clear strengths in Norwegian society, and when you might point out that doing things a little bit differently, it's important to remember that it's not black paint. But we actually have a different view of how some things can be solved. I have noticed that the Workers' Party is quite hurt to be bored a little near, and that it is easy to accuse everyone else of black paint. But we have experienced a fantastic development in the exchange relationship with the rest of the world. It's a pretty strong characteristic for us in Norway compared to the rest of the Western world. The emergence of China and other developing countries has made the most important commodity we sell more expensive, while everything we import has become much cheaper. There's something all the Nordics now enjoy in the form of a remarkable wealth growth, I would say. So it's not the result of anyone's individual policy. That's the result of our having had considerable luck – in a world context. Now when we look forward to 2060 through the perspective message, it's important that we don't rely on luck. We have to look at the challenges we face, and there are actually some danger signals and some warning lights that should flash. It says that it should be strong back to carry good times. Then you have to do the right priorities in order to also be competitive in the future, and there's some other way of thinking about things. The Perspective Communication points to a number of clear challenges. We have a clear need for containment in the future. We have fairly liberal budgets and liberal times in Norway up to approx. 2020 or a little bit later. Then the space for action begins to shrink, and once after 2030, the need for detection begins to report quite strongly. We have very clear signs of a two-way economy. It's also drawn up. It's a consequence of the exchange relationship, as I said, and especially when wealth is taken out here at home. So the questions are, have we prepared well enough? And have we done enough to generate growth in that part of Norway that is really struggling with the pressures? When we had a hearing on the perspective message, Karen Helene Ulltveit-Moe was quite clear by saying that she really would have baptized about the whole message – to describe unchanged perspectives. A natural follow-up question, since it has been almost the same content in the perspective message since Per-Kristian Foss presented her under the Bondevik II government, is whether enough has been done to ensure sustainability and to strengthen the development of Norwegian society beyond what we have done with the pension reform, which was well started during the Bondevik II government. We have experienced a cost explosion under the red-green regime. We've gone from 20 pst. to 70 pst. over our closest trading partners, and then we don't talk about many of those who are really our new competitors. Steinar Holden also made a very special statement during the hearing, where he said that we might be on our way to developing a permanent high cost level. There's something an economist that Holden probably rarely takes in his mouth, because I think he swears that the economy adapts. But there are some special features that we should take seriously, and a lot of the discussions in the Perspective Communication are gross simplifications of the challenges. We almost don't get analyses of the oil and gas sector, despite the fact that we know there are revolutions out there. It's probably just to mention the shale gas revolution in the United States. We actually have to look at the realities in our eyes. Retrospective attitudes and policies can now lead to quite such major challenges in the future, and the more we have drained Norway for traditional competitive activities, the tougher it will be to overcome them. So the right-hand option is very clear. We want to strengthen the line of work. We have noted that there are several employees in the Norwegian economy. Of course, it is when the population increases sharply, but the employment rate has actually fallen completely since 2008. There were completely new numbers coming from the SSB that confirmed that it's continuing to develop. It is quite daunting in the light of what we discussed at the turn of the line, that productivity across the workforce is crucial for future well-being. Then we are also concerned with the need for increased productivity, and this concerns both the private and the public sectors. As I was in the line change, it is a paradox in the perspective statement that it is shown that productivity growth in the private sector almost has nothing to say about the need for containment. The most likely explanation is that the more productive private business becomes — especially when we have such high costs — the more public sector shifts or even social security schemes. In this way, private sector profits will become losses in the public sector. So this is the very central challenge of analysing: what's going on, and how are we going to solve it? As I also said in the change of line, it is almost remarkable that it is then possible to vote down our proposal that we should now speed up the development of good productivity indicators in the public sector. So it could be in place to encourage the committee leader, when he has now heard that it says there, to consider voting in favour. If we also look at the other proposals, the four bourgeois parties have gathered on a common direction and a common policy in many areas. We want oil money to be invested in knowledge, infrastructure and growth-promoting tax relief. We open up diversity to tackle more health and care tasks, but also to ensure faster deployment of new infrastructures on transport, public transport and public services. We want a more entrepreneurial policy that does not punish private owners and family-run businesses. We will end tax discrimination against Norwegian private ownership – owners who choose to live in Norway and bet on Norwegian jobs – in favour of foreign and state ownership. It is a paradox, as I have pointed out a number of times, that we are calling for patient Norwegian owners to Norwegian jobs, while at the same time punishing them for being patient, with a strange tax. When foreigners leave a business in Norway, you go around and are mad at the consequences of your own policies by actually stimulating foreign ownership. This is a paradox, where the red-greens soon have to explain to me what they care most about. We want a policy of increased private savings. We believe we have a critically high debt in households. It has exploded under the red-green and is now far above what we had in the japs. We're good over 200 pst. We believe it is important for the dissemination of power in Norwegian society, and having resources from behind also creates independence and provides a safe environment for the individual. We now see that there are rather desperate regulatory measures, among other things. in the housing market, which can easily close young people out of the housing market. It comes instead of doing something about the cause, as among other things. is that saving, for example, is directly unprofitable today. in a bank in Norway. This has been clearly demonstrated by the OECD in its calculations and given clear warnings. We've also suggested a simple model to get stock savings out of people, so that we don't just save on housing, but start saving financially. Having a spread of ownership in Norwegian business means that I am absolutely central to the spread of power and understanding of value creation, understanding how jobs are created and thus facilitating the well-being of the future. So the common comment that lies there is a very good platform for getting Norway on a slightly different course in some priorities that we have discussed quite many times here in the hall. It clears up a lot, and in four months we can hopefully start putting it into action.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e446	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e450	It's with wonder I heard the post from the Right now – do we see the reality in our eyes, and have we prepared well enough? There are three important questions raised in this perspective communication with a view to preparing well enough. I want to ask the representative Gundersen if he is comfortable going into closer political cooperation with the Progress Party – how much money we are going to spend and what causes the cost explosion. Yes, where the Progress Party and the Right really break each other in this perspective message. There must be great concern for the representative of Gundersen. We have heard that man-made climate change is not recognised by the Progress Party, one of the major and vital issues for future economic policy perspectives, but also for environmental protection. Finally, the Progress Party also writes in its note that it is not possible to redistribute to well-being and prosperity. Is this seen in the eyes of future cooperation?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e461	I feel very comfortable going in cooperation with the Progress Party. We've decided that we want to invest more in the future, and we agree on what we're going to bet on. The representative of Storberget knows very well that it has never been on the Right to conduct a responsible policy, but we do not negotiate with other independent parties in the media or in the public. We'll take that to the chamber, and we think that's good folk. I look forward very much to working with the Progress Party in government. As I said, we want to give much of the same priority, we have the same objectives for Norway, and we believe that Norway needs to embark on a new course in order to invest for the future. I'm not worried that we shouldn't find solutions to what we might also disagree about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e468	The representative of Gundersen showed in his statement that the opposition parties have gathered on a note on how the yield of the oil fund is to be phased into the State budget. Money shall be earmarked for investment in infrastructure, in research and in taxation – earmarked. How much of today's budget is the Gundersen representative today thinking goes for these purposes? Is it NHO's analysis that says there's only 10 pst. ? My questions are: where in the budget are we going to cut in those areas that are not concerned? Is it cut in the municipal sector, in school, in education, in care for the elderly? Or is it cut off in the transfers to healthcare companies, to hospital treatment, to patient treatment? Where is it to be cut?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e475	I don't remember using the word 'eyemark' in any context, but what we've indicated is a desire to prioritize differently. So after the Bondevik II government went off, 85 billion has arrived. new oil crowns every year that we can use. It is clear that many of the money has now been spent. We support the NHO's analysis of how that money has been spent, but we also support our own, and there the representative should be very familiar with our alternative priorities that come out in every single budget. We go to school, we go to care for the elderly, and we focus in particular on transforming the public sector, establishing a neutral VAT system, so that we get real and proper competition between the private and public sectors. So there are a number of measures you can do here, but the need behind is to release more money for investment for the future. But that we're labeling something, I'm taking a distance from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e480	I want to ask the representative, Gundersen, how it feels to be an alternative to today's government, an option that's so daunting. When I read the notes, it looks like there's a common sentence over everyone, and it's that the country needs a new government after eight years of red-green rule. Right does not have annotations in the setting, but a common note that calls for security. In the case of the phase-in of oil money, the Progress Party states in its own note that the current rules of action for the use of oil money do not meet the needs of the nation to stimulate production-promoting operations and research, or the development of profitable infrastructure. While the Progress Party believes it is not possible to shift to well-being and prosperity, the Left calls for greater will for the same thing. The Christian People's Party and the Left both believe that it will be transformed into a more climate-friendly society.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e485	As I have said before, we have four common objectives of different priorities in order to invest for the future. That we are four independent parties, not least the representative Kleppa should be familiar with. In 2005, the Central Party said to the parliamentary leader here from the Chair that the rule of action was a dogma without content. When it comes to cracks, we see that they fight every day in the government. In fact, I think we now agree so much that the reason why the government parties paint this is because they fear that a lot is now so clear that credibility is high, and that this will focus on the friction that is taking place internally among the government parties. We're going to be able to cooperate perfectly – I'm sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e490	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e493	The starting point for addressing future challenges for Norway is the very best: low unemployment, good welfare schemes, high value creation and small differences. After almost eight years of government SV, we have Europe's lowest unemployment rate and Europe's lowest disparities. It could therefore be tempting to recall the opposition's doomsday warnings almost eight years ago, all the country would suffer if SV came into government. There would be financial turmoil, unemployment and a reduction in competitiveness. The opposite has happened. So I allow myself to kick a little to the right, which has been the most eager follower of Norwegian EU membership. If Norway had done as the Right said, we would now have been members of a Union marked by what they accused Norway of joining SV, namely financial turmoil, unemployment and reduced competitiveness. In today’s Europe, Norway is different. It is important to underline, because the perspective message is about what is going to happen in the future. What is happening in the future will be based on what has happened before, the Norwegian model, which is the foundation of the red-green work in the future. In the case of SV, the Norwegian model will be used when outlining the prospects for the future. The Norwegian model is based on equal opportunities for different people. That's the core of everything we're doing, and it's a great sky to jump after. The policy that the red-green leaders have led us to where we are today. It's the same vision that different people should have equal opportunities to lead us forward. Two main challenges have been identified in the debate — environment and justice. Justice first: the need for welfare services will increase in the future, including: as a result of which we live longer. This happens at the same time as the revenue from the oil and gas sector will decrease in 10-15 years. A central issue in the debate has therefore been whether we need to work more, increase working time, or whether we need to cut welfare. It is a question created to make more Right Policy — less well-being and longer working days — while the Workers' Party's Hallvard Hill, which has looked at the figures, writes in the Class Battle this weekend that the fact is that we can increase the standard in the welfare state by over 60 p.m., introduce the six-hour day, have a balance sheet and at the same time double our private consumption by 2060. The welfare state is to those degrees sustainable. It is claimed from the right-wing parties that the welfare state is not sustainable in the future, that we need to reduce well-being and work longer. The point is, if we concentrate on doubling rather than treble private consumption, we will fund the welfare state with good margins in the future. In terms of technological change and productivity growth, we are also promoting welfare in the future. It's not about working more, it's about increasing productivity. Here is a sharp distinction between the right parties and the left side of Norwegian policy. While the left-wing parties are working to increase productivity through a historical commitment to research, through more practical vocational schools and more practical choice in secondary schools, the right-hand side's productivity policy is based on the fact that the legs of the employees are going to run faster, longer and faster under worse conditions. But when we say that more people have to work, that's a point that I can't emphasize strongly enough. It's that we have to make arrangements to get more people into work. We have a high level of professional participation in Norway. At the same time, many are involuntarily absent from work. There are about 100,000 unemployed now, and the number is increasing. There are people with disabilities who have been struggling to adapt to work for a long time. We see that many women work part-time involuntaryly, and we see that many people who have a foreign name are struggling to be called in for an interview or get a job, even if they have good qualifications. It is therefore necessary to facilitate the possibility for all those outside the labour market who wish to enter the labour market. So some words about environment, and I allow myself to raise my eyes a little bit. Through the UN, the world community has gathered that the preconditions for sustainable development are the fight against international poverty, the reduction of natural diversity, man-made climate change and the spread of environmental pollutants. Norway must continue to play an active driving role internationally in these areas. Our wealth commits. We cannot demand other countries to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions if we do nothing ourselves. The greenhouse gas emissions shall be reduced corresponding to 30 pst. emissions in 1990 and Norway shall be carbon neutral by 2050. This means that two thirds of the emissions are to be collected nationally. I see that the time is running out of me, but I will end with one point: in economic policy, opposition parties have gathered around the fact that the phase-in of the oil fund in the state budget must be based on the designation of funds for specific purposes. [[President clubs]] Then I end by saying that they haven't marked how they're going to cut in the budget... [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e514	The number is up and thus the representative may be asked to speak for another post if there are several arguments that should be put forward. It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e519	Let me just remind you that with regard to the short-term perspectives of economic policy, they are dealt with in the State budget every year. The Progress Party's alternative budget shows how we will prioritise how we create room for economic growth, more at work, while streamlining the public sector. So it's not a hokuspokus – it's just reading documents that are on the Stortinget. So it's good that SV is satisfied with the economic development, because the SSB has said that the main reason for the growth is the large oil investments. When SV now thinks it is good, we have received a unanimous increase behind the country's oil policy. Then at least something good has come out of having SV in government, as seen. The debate that has now taken place is about: How are you going to make sure that you have good prospects for securing investment in the country? SV's Hallgeir H. Langeland wrote, among others. a reader’s letter in Bergensavisen on 24 September last year. He wrote: ‘The fact that the Oil Fund cannot invest in important projects in Norway appears to be increasingly irresponsible as the financial crisis unfolds.’ He represents SV. Do you agree with SV in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e533	Yeah, I agree with SV. After all, the government proposes to spend 100 to 125 billion annually. kr of the State budget – 125 br. kr that goes to transport, goes to rail, goes to hospitals and goes to health – which goes to develop the welfare country further. So it's a policy that we've stood for and that we're going to continue to stand for. But we're not going to spend money on tax bills in the hundreds of billionaires class, as the Progress Party suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e541	I think it was interesting to hear the representative Hansen, because he actually drew a different picture of the way forward towards 2050 than the government does in its perspective. The representative referred, inter alia: to Hallvard Bakke's article. I want to quote from the perspective message: ‘The need for containment’ – to keep the welfare state going at this level we have today – ‘increases to about 6 pst. by the value creation of the mainland economy up to 2060. ‘... It goes on to say: «In order to finance the increased costs of ageing, we must either increase public sector revenue or find savings that do not undermine the main welfare systems.» My question is simply: is not SV behind the government itself as assumptions in the perspective notification?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e558	So we definitely do that. I said in my speech, and it says in my remarks, that the future funding of the welfare state must take place within the framework of the model we have built our welfare society to this day – i.e. redistribution. I also said in my post that if we settle to double private consumption rather than triple it, we will be able to finance the welfare state. So the question that we're going to ask ourselves in the years to come is, how much is the private consumption going to increase? Then we point out that it can be very careful with a doubling instead of a triple. That is our view on the question of how to finance the welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e567	The representative Hansen spoke about the environment in his article. I'm going to spend part of my speaking time, when that time comes, in the very climate and environment. I'm going to say that the climate noise is the biggest threat the world is facing. Does the SV representative agree with this? And if so, is he satisfied with the impact SV has received in government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e574	I agree with the description that the questioner gives here now, and I also said that in my post. It is no secret that we want to go even further in environmental policy than we have. But we're happy with what we've got. It has, among other things, contributed to the decline of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway. They're lower now than they were in 1995, so we've already seen the effects of our policies. But I assume that the questioner has noticed the answers of the Progress Party to the questions we have asked about the greenhouse gas emissions, namely that they cast doubt on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. They are, of course, the future partner of the Left, if I have understood the comments and the cooperative configurations of the opposition correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e583	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e586	Most of the debates in the UK are about how we can make the right choices by creating changes. The debate on the perspective message should be primarily about how we can take care of values that we have built our society so far. The centre party will continue to work for geographical and social smoothing. It's a personal value of our society that we have used our rich natural resources to work and build across the country. It is also a good environmental policy – we ensure cleaner energy, more and healthier food, a resilient value creation and a sound world economy. The forces of centralisation are strong in our society now – the more important it is with clear counter-powers. An offensive investment in infrastructure allows the whole country to be put into service, including in time to come. The centre party is pleased that we are part of a government that will secure and strengthen the welfare development that most of us have been involved in. We don't promise tax havens, but we believe that a good public school and inclusive health and social services are crucial for a good society, too. Smoothing also has a global perspective. We want to work for more countries to secure work and social stability. Climate change is a global threat to the welfare community. A fundamental challenge is that today’s global consumption patterns are not resilient. It's too cheap to pollute, and too little profitable to be environmentally friendly. It is alarming that the second largest batch of Storting, as shown in the setting, does not share such an opinion. It may well be called both naive and speculative by the Progress Party to leave to the individual to make his or her choices, more than to propose political actions in this decisive, important field. The perspective message states that the workforce is our most important resource. The work we do is the very foundation of the welfare society. Participation in the labour market gives individual economic autonomy. The centre party thinks we need to step up our efforts to include even more people in the world of work. This is how we can reduce poverty, raise living standards and improve living standards. Three fields require special attention. More people need to be able to work longer than early ejaculation. More disabled people, long-term workers and immigrants must be given access to work. Unfortunately, today we do not have an inclusive working life that is good enough. At the same time, we must take care of those who cannot work. The opposition party underlines the importance of having a low threshold in the workplace for groups that have traditionally had difficulty getting in. I agree with that. Complicated they refer to, it's harder to see the consequences of. When they call for a wide review of property, tax rules and support schemes, they may seem to think that today's arrangements are too good. How can you understand the following quotations from the joint comments: «The protection of workers by the Working Environment Act must be ensured. At the same time, it is important to ensure a certain degree of flexibility and a piece of legislation adapted to the working life of today and the future.’ However, should the labour law against all promises be reversed to the time of Bondevik II, with the resulting insecurity? When I was a social minister, from 1997 to 2000, I was responsible for the subsampling message. Fortunately, the five anti-aliasing strategies are still working: a softer workline improve public services a more finmasked social security network a more social housing policy a more fair tax system These five strategies also have doctors as the basis for the red-green government. They are good guidance also in the time to come. I do not believe that the debate has clarified that these are strategies that a possible alternative will follow. There's too much of a gap in the joint comments about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e631	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e634	Good infrastructure is one of the important foundations for good prosperity development in the future. Good infrastructure is like the bloodstream in society that makes sure that you can have a functioning housing and labour market that allows people not to spend a lot of time getting to work, but that you can spend time at work or with your family – both are important. When the representative Meltveit Kleppa was the State Council, she said that 1 km of motorway averaged 70 million. SEK to build in 1998, but SEK 170 million. SEK to be built in 2012. If you had set $70 million. In 1998, it would be worth 125 million kroner. kr in 2012 – ergo: The kilometer one failed to build in 1998, gets a just 740 meters off when one builds it 14 years later. Is it not then a good perspective to speed up socio-economic profitable road projects, so that we do not push increased road costs in future generations, above what it is today, where the government rationalizes this, regardless of whether it is profitable or not?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e641	Is what I'm happy with, as the government has come up with in the last month, it's the national transport plan that has been put forward, and that tells us how to increase investment on the road and on the road, how to take care of not only the main road network, but provide a basis for people to continue to live and work in the districts, how to have faster planning to get faster implementation, and how to at the same time have flashed out some large facilities that one should follow in particular with regard to money after progress. 508 B.C.E. kr is a large number isolated, but when we see what we can get out of this money, it's glittering.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e648	If 508 billion. kr is glittering, the Right National Transport Plan must be said to be very glittering. In fact, the government's commitment to trade shows on the contrary that the relative size measured against the size of the state budget is not a commercial bet, but an on-site rest bet in the case of transportation. Uncertain perspectives might be more comprehensive when we talk about a new government where the Senterpartiet gets influence, because the perspective report reveals how incredibly important oil exploration is and has been for Norway, but also how important it should still be to have strong future scenarios. Does the Centre Party not understand the importance of the oil and gas industry, the maritime industry, and agriculture, indirectly, in order to maintain subsidies, for Norway, and how important it is in a perspective that future oil and gas activities should also be expressed outside the Lofoten, as advocated by the Right? The centre party assumes a great responsibility in future perspective messages – I'm going to add it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e655	I think it's brave of a party that cuts half a billion dollars in agricultural transfers already in today's budget, to use it as an example that the Center Party is a danger in future government cooperation. So I would also say that the Center Party has, whether we've been in position or in opposition, every year takes responsibility for the distribution that is going to be between opening up new fields and exploiting existing fields better, while leaving something to future generations, so that they can take care of it. Then we haven't promised tax credits in the billion dollar class, but we've managed this society in terms of future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e663	The left is concerned with value creation, and I believe that the Center Party has traditionally also been, although we did not hear anything special about it in the post of Meltveit Kleppa here now. Now the governor says that the value creation per capita today is the same as it was five years ago. My question to the representative Meltveit Kleppa is: Is the representative satisfied with this? If not, what does she want to do with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e670	Let me first say that there will be an own article in the debate on value creation – that's not all I got equal space for five minutes. But I strongly stress how important it is to facilitate the creation of value throughout the country, and that is exactly what is done by today's government. Now, the staging messages that point forward when it comes to value creation are on a running bond. The last one was probably the seafood message. What I'm surprised about is that the left cannot be inside a comment that says something about how important it is to increase food production in this country. That's what lays the foundation for very much value creation in many communities across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e677	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e680	One might think that when the country's National Assembly discusses future policy for 40–50 years and perspectives around it, there could be more – both here and there. I think it's an expression that many people are satisfied with the state of things – and have reason for it. I think that if almost any other country — at least if you look south in Europe — had the same debate, it would call for a much greater interest. But it should also be of interest, because there is a lot of good and interesting reading in the government's perspective message. It says something about our challenges. We have some good years ahead, where we can actually run on as we have done, and then we come to a point where the challenges for the welfare state or society become significant, and where the government itself has outlined that either you have to raise the tax level, or you have to risk getting a reduction in welfare quality. I think the perspective message is good for description, maybe not quite so good at giving a direction to where you want to when you see the challenges you have described. I guess it was also quite pervasive in the hearing we had in the Financial Committee. We have had an incredibly strong economic growth in Norway, and lucky international trade conditions have made Norway a winner of globalisation in the last 20 years. Then we have had an increased participation in working life from women from the 1970s onwards. It has also contributed significantly. So far, we've also had a positive demography, not least in the last ten years, where we have a relatively large number of employees compared to the number of pensioners. But as the government itself has described, that image will also change. So we go a little bit more uncertain times in our encounter. We get new findings on the Norwegian base – we hear about that. But it's now even more mature than before, and we're dependent on a high oil price in the future for many of the new fields if they're actually going to be propelling. Or maybe we can't expect so much growth in employment among women, and so we're going to have a bigger imbalance in the number of employees per pensioner. Of course, the oil fund or pension fund makes it much easier to meet this situation, but also where – as the government itself describes it – we get to a roof at some point. We have had good family policy arrangements in Norway – and I think there is reason to stress this – that we have birth rates that are much higher than they are in many other countries that we compare with. But the figures here have also decreased, from 1.95 children per woman in 2010 to 1.85 last year. These basic conditions give me the opportunity to point out three areas in which we need to put the effort in place. Firstly, we must have a good family policy. It's proven by the birth figures I referred to. The family has value in itself as a unique institution in society, but also in order to ensure birth rates and important offers to work in the future. Then we have to have better employment. There we see, as the Brochmann Committee has pointed out, that we have some fundamental challenges in some groupings of society. There we expect that both this government and the future government will have to step in. So it's about productivity development, which we've discussed a little bit in this debate. It is positive that it seems to have gone the right way in the last year, but the trend has been that we stand on the ground resting, and that our goods compared to the rest of the world are becoming increasingly expensive. As the situation is in Europe, we just have to be able to expect that it will give us further challenges. Finally, I would like to say that the perspective message points to some aspects. There are also other conditions in a society that it cannot or should not cover. A welfare society and a welfare state are two different things, but all progress, everything that makes life worth living, cannot be read into a productivity message, or a perspective message like this. It's a bigger debate that I hope we can also take. With this, I will address our suggestions that we have with the Left in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e697	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e702	Part of the irresponsible economic policy of the Progress Party is to separate operations from investments. As long as something is socio-economically profitable, it's just taking it out of the budget and removing all restrictions on money use. So far, all the parties on Stortinget have disagreed with the Progress Party on this. That's why it's alarming by the Christian People's Party, by its party leader Hareide, now it seems to be hanging out on the same rhetoric. I believe that it is more important and appropriate to invest in a few extra meters of asphalt than it is to spend money on the operation of e.g. education and child protection for our future generations?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e709	I thank you for the question. I would say that we have spent a lot of time on the rule of action, and it is important. To reassure the representative Kristoffersen, I come straight from a national meeting that has determined the same thing, so I hope that's an answer in itself. But we have to take care of one thing, and that's that the rule of action doesn't just become an empty shell where the only thing that matters is what percentage we assume. It's important, I think, that we think through what we're fulfilling the rule of action. If we do what we originally agreed, we think first of all about investment, higher education and research – even the Workers' Party agreed on growth-promoting taxes – or we have no relation to it anymore, we just push about. 4 pst. into each year’s budget? I think we should discuss it without there being any swing in the roll for that reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e716	I will go to the last thing the representative said, namely the rule of action and its use. Here the opposition parties have gathered on a completely concrete formulation. It has also been argued in previous budgets that it should be used for concrete purposes – for research, for investment in infrastructure and for business taxation. It is important to get answers on the areas where money is currently being spent, in which you want to cut. It's an important question, because it's a lot, a lot of money. In this year's budget, it's 125 billion. kr. If you want to re-prioritize half of this, it's 60-70 billion. kr annually. There are fundamental things about financing our future well-being. Is it the municipal sector, is it the care of the elderly, is the operation of hospitals and patient treatment the money to be taken from to be transferred for other purposes? Does the Seven have an answer to this question?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e723	Now, for every budget, we've seen more and more oil crowns coming into the budget. This is because the fund is larger, and as you also have good oil prices, it has given you an increase. The question is, then, what the representative has to do with it. No one has said that this should be earmarked, but we think we should have a greater focus on what the Stortinge decided, namely that the increased space for action must be used positively into the Norwegian economy. There are no criteria that we have set up. I would like to ask the representative Hansen to look at the alternative budgets, because then it can be seen that the opposition parties have spent more on precisely the areas that were prioritised when the action rule was introduced. I think we've really done pretty well through the alternative budgets, but we haven't really got into any government yet.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e728	The Central Party and the Christian People's Party have been working together to ensure that non-profit organisations have a place in the development and operation of health and care provision in the country. There will also be an important theme in the years to come. So says the Christian People's Party in a note, together with the other opposition parties, "that there is a need to get rid of private and non-profit actors who can complement the public in several sectors in order to bring down health cows". This is traditionally seen as an expression of a greater use of the release of health and care. The government has had its own rounds for ideals both in the field of child protection and in the health sector. Does the Christian People's Party agree that securing its place in health and care services does not through the general outsourcing of services, but through its own actions based on the provision of ideal and long-term agreements?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e739	I think the Center Party and the Christian People's Party initially have quite a similar view of this. The problem is how the government has carried out the task of caring for the voluntary sector/ideals. I'm not going to say that it's going to cancel, but it's not far from jamming when you see how you've treated many of the non-profit organisations within different sectors. I notice that there is a change going on, but I am not very reassured either when you say that you put down a sample to look at the space you have within the EEA Agreement to avoid competitive outsourcing, and then add that you want to see to what extent you want to use that space of action. That's the government's message after seven and a half years. So I think we initially have quite similar views in the Center Party and the Christian People's Party on this. What I hope is that a new government will be far more offensive than what this government has done in the area where the representative is concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e745	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e748	On the presentation of the perspective message, the Prime Minister said something like this is a good opportunity to stop, make up the status and be more good at thinking in the long term. I fully agree with that. In some areas, the perspective communication also does this, but in one area, both the government and the perspective communication fail. It is linked to climate challenges and global warming. It's almost like the challenges are now so big that you can't deal properly with them. It is further underlined by the fact that the Prime Minister did not mention the climate and environment with a single word in his speech to the Workers' Party's national meeting recently. I am somewhat surprised to read the perspective message when the government writes about the climate challenge that: ‘one-sided action in only one country or region does not solve the problem. In the worst case, unilateral measures may lead to the transfer of production and increased emissions to other countries’. It is a claim that undermines the climate agreement reached by Stortinget. The left believes that the threat of climate change is the greatest challenge facing humanity today. Not only threatens sea rise, drought and extreme weather nature and environment, it also threatens the global economy. The IMF Chief Christine Lagarde has stated that the climate crisis is undoubtedly the biggest economic challenge in the 21st century. It is therefore alarming that the government has not included much more in the debate on the future of the Norwegian economy and public finances. Proper international carbon pricing is an appropriate measure to reduce the world's total greenhouse gas emissions, but it is far from the only one. I therefore disagree with the government that places similarities between the achievement of the 2 degree target and the introduction of the global CO2 price. In the EU, the United States, China and other countries, there are now increasingly stricter regulations, which in practice have much of the same effects as a CO2 tax or a CO2 price. Norway cannot sit passively on the sidelines pending a global carbon price, but actively seek leadership with the rest of Europe in the necessary energy conversion work. To achieve the 2-degree target, large parts of the world's well-known fossil energy resources must remain untouched. The question is how Norway is positioned to follow the IEA advice not to extract 2/3 of fossil reserves. This can have a major impact on the long-term welfare of the Norwegian economy and Norwegian citizens, and should, in the view of the Left, be addressed heavily in the perspective communication. This view is shared by Head of the Central Bank of Öystein Olsen, who says to the Official Journal of Bergen on 23 April this year that the oil price will fall immediately if the world’s top leaders achieve a proper climate agreement. I therefore refer to the proposal that the Left has promoted, together with the Christian People's Party, to investigate the consequences of this. I am surprised to note that the government parties once again voted down a proposal to gain more knowledge about a completely crucial area of Norwegian policy. The main challenges for Norway in the medium term are addressing the two major challenges of demography and oil dependence. If no decisive and important action is taken now, we will leave ourselves a great bill and an even greater challenge to future generations. It is also a major challenge in the short and medium term that the Norwegian wage and cost level today is well above average in our main export markets. It is a major challenge that too many people of pre-employment age are not included in ordinary employment. Developing and attracting the right skills for future needs is a major challenge. The problem is to have a workforce that is constantly adapted to the needs of society and business, which is an increasing problem in several Western economies. We need to train more people properly, and we need to create a working life that is constantly focusing on new learning. It is a prerequisite for Norway's ability to adapt and to compete that we have a high-quality education system from kindergarten to university. We need to reverse the trend that shows that Norwegian business is losing innovation in relation to competitors, especially our neighbouring countries. Intensive and targeted research, innovation and commercialisation in business are prerequisites for business's adaptability and competitiveness. Then I get what I was going to say about the rule of action, lie to later.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e798	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e801	The left has signed up with other parties, including the Advance Party, in that the country needs a new government. ‘There is a need for new thinking and a new course’, it says in the setting. Environmental policy was at the heart of the contribution of the representative, and that is understandable, because environmental policy will be central when we have to look far ahead. Can the representative then mention three areas of environmental policy where the Left and the Progressive Party share a similar view of the environmental challenges, i.e. where we get a new course and a new idea if we are to think in a long-term perspective? Can she mention only three areas where the Left and the Progressive Party share the same view of environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e808	Yes, we've written together in many areas, and we need a new government. The reason for this is that we have a lot of historical money to spend, but as the Left Party – and the Advance Party – sees it, we use them a little wrong – we just make mistakes. We want to spend money on more infrastructure, value creation and more on education and research. And then we don't conduct government negotiations in a debate like this – we don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e813	I allow myself to ask the same question as I asked to the Right and Christian People's Party. This concerns the use and phase-in of the money from the oil fund. There I have received two answers in the past, and both of them are made visible what needs to be strengthened and what needs to be cut in the parties' alternative budgets. These parties have proposed more money for hospitals, more money for hospitals, more money for primary schools, more money for teachers, more money for public transport, more money for earmarked funds – as well as tax bills of the order of 30-100 billion. kr. Here there is nothing to read from the budgets behind us in time that can tell us how the parties have intended to re-dispose the use of the oil fund. My question to the Left is whether Left has some sense of what the new picture should look like and what the new use of oil money will be like in the years to come if the opposition parties come to power.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e818	We have now been in opposition for eight years, and the Left has delivered and will always deliver a responsible economic policy. The representative, who, hopefully, has looked at the alternative budgets of the Left, should know that. It says how we want to prioritize, so it's completely unnecessary to use time now. But we will give priority to the areas that I mentioned in the previous question too, for example. infrastructure – it is very important for value creation that we have good infrastructure – and we want to use more e.g. in the major cities of public transport, so as to bring about the emergence of commercial transport. There's nothing wrong with SV, and we're sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e823	In the setting that Storting’s goal is to increase food production in line with population growth, estimated at 20 pst. over the next 20 years. The same plurality underlines the need for reinforced soil protection in the light of the objective of a strengthened and sustainable food production. For this reason, the majority calls for soil protection to be prepared and reinforced in state level guidelines. The left does not seem to share this view, neither the aim of increasing food production nor the goal of a strengthened soil protection. I'd like to give the Left's representative the opportunity to do a little bit more for his reason in order to refrain from being associated with a wide majority of the Stortinge in the goal of increasing national food production and strengthening soil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e828	The left is for value creation throughout the country, in line with the Center Party. We consider the farmer to be a self-employed person, and we are doing a lot of work to ensure that the self-employed person is doing well in this society, unlike what I feel is being done in government. So it's a strange day to ask this question on, when the first thing we woke up to today early, was that there's anxiety among the red-green when it comes to this particular question. So that was a strange question. In the case of food, I'm very proud of what the left local does, and that's where you do the job. For example, in my municipality, Bærum, there are strong forces working to take care of good food soil, and it is not the simplest municipality to operate with food soil conservation, I can promise the representative!
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e837	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e841	The debate on the perspective communication is a debate in which one can try to get a slightly higher sky, to use such an expression, about the political debate and a little more perspective, in other words that one should look far ahead, look at some long developments in Norway and the Norwegian economy. What is the point of the perspective communication is that they analyse a do, should be a good basis for shaping a sensible policy today and in the years to come. There are some key messages in the message. One is that our model of society provides good results. If we want to meet the challenges we are facing in the future, we need to increase labour input as life expectancy increases. And at the bottom of it all, there must be sound economic policies. There are many good figures and a lot of good reading material in the perspective message, but maybe the very best figure finds one on page 89. There is one figure that describes the value creation per capita in Norway at the same time as one looks at the distribution of income between people in Norway. And then we see that we're the country among those who are compared here, where the income differences are the least -- it's just Slovenia that's lower -- and we're absolutely at the top when it comes to value creation. In other words, the model has worked in the sense that we have high production and little difference between people in this country. That's good. It should also be in the future. So it's that a lot is uncertain, but there's also a lot we know. It is difficult to stand here and imagine what production life will look like in 10–20–30–40 years, and how technological developments will go. But there are some moves that we know more about than other things. One such condition is the evolution of population in the years to come. Those who are 60 years of age and older in 2060 are born, and the projections in the population allow us to say a little about what requirements it will impose on politics and on us in the future. So it's true that in the last 15 years, our export prices have increased significantly more than the import prices. The oil and gas price has meant a lot. At the same time, we have benefited from low-priced imports from emerging economies. This has resulted in Norway having a large, positive trading relationship, which allows us to also increase income for society and for each of us. But what we are aware of is that price developments, for example. on oil can turn. This is why working on productivity and investment to ensure a solid production base in mainland Norway in the future is becoming unusually much more important. If we compare Norway with other developed countries, productivity growth has been good in the last 20 years, but with variations in Norway, as in other countries, for example. before and after the financial crisis. Norway found drifting oil reserves in 1969 — in a way fortunate: in the second last hole, it had decided to test wells. But finding oil and having an oil price that's been high in recent years is one thing. It is also important to make wise choices; it is also important to make good choices in policy to manage large natural resources in a good way. A cornerstone of economic policy in Norway is the management of oil resources in a forward-looking way. They're managed with a lot of excitement in Stortinget. It's important that we keep going that way. I would also like to say that having good and universal welfare systems, equal access to important welfare goods, is a strength for production and productivity and the ability to convert into business. People who are safe in the work situation are also people who are more productive and who can put themselves and others to the test by switching to a new production in the future. There's also another figure that I want to focus on, and it's one that shows how much trust we have in each other in the Norwegian community. That's where we're at the top. The fact that we have great confidence in our workmates and our neighbors in the work situation is a contribution to keeping this Norwegian model in order, so that we can also be productive and good in the future. However, Norway has no free ticket to low leave and high prosperity. We're affected by what's happening around us. We must try to prevent imbalances that are rooted in domestic conditions, and that requires public finances to carry over time. Then there is one relationship that I want to mention, and as I have mentioned on several other occasions, that our welfare systems are based on an unwritten contract between the different generations in Norway. We have different needs at different times in life. We are partly helpless both in the first phase and in the last phase of life. In the meantime, we are doing a lot of work in the labour market. One can describe it in such a way that it is the working life that supports well-being and this strong community on the back. It is important that we manage the policy in such a way that we can deliver this generation contract in the years to come. In the perspective report, perhaps the most important thing is that if we continue today's schemes without any particular increase in quality, but look at population changes, we have a coverage need of about 6 pst. by the value creation of the mainland economy in 2060. The important question is, how are we going to set ourselves up so that those who come after us do not get an unbearable burden on funding the welfare state when we arrive a few years in time? The return from the Pension Fund can help us, but the most important thing is how the working life develops. If we are to avoid cutting welfare schemes, the income of the state and the municipality will probably have to increase. The most important contribution to this is that we jointly increase labour input over the years to come. There are also good figures in the perspective communication that show that even modest increases in total work effort make it possible to address the need for detection in 2060. The reform of pensions and the increasing number of older people in the labour market are important. That is why I am also pleased that the pension reform has such a broad upturn in the Grand Duchy, because it is an important tool for us in the years to come. We need to get more of those who are outside today, into the workplace, and we need to get a stronger and more inclusive working life. We have to limit the proportion of those who don't work because of disability and illness. The right to contribute to the labour market is simply one of the most important rights that people have. In the light of the discussion about poverty and such things, I would also say that there is nothing more to fight poverty than that you and your parents are at work. I need not say anything more about the need for a safe, good and forward-looking economic policy. Everyone understands that I'm busy. Finally, fiscal policy is facing major challenges in the future, and there are great temptations in fiscal policy. I don't think we're getting a good answer to that today either, but one of the most important debates to clarify is how the Storting and future government constellations conform to the rule of action. The action rule, which distinguishes the cash flow into the Pension Fund from the current use in individual State budgets, is the very core wall of this construction. That is why it is important that we base the rule of action, that in dealing with the state budget and in what we are going to do in the future, we see the different areas in context, and that we are able to prioritise economic policy. Then we're going to bet on the proper use of oil money. We need to bet on work, knowledge and well-being. We also need to have a basis where we say that keeping order in the economy is a prerequisite for that. Perhaps the most important thing is that we have to take care of our ability to cooperate and our willingness to meet challenges in the future, and we have to make sure that a table in a future perspective report – in 10-20 years’ time – is exactly the same as that we have on page 89 of today’s perspective report.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e879	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e882	In the perspective statement, it says, among other things: the following: ‘In order to support efficient resource use, all enterprises and industries must face a level playing field, including taxes and charges.’ Wise words, perhaps many people will believe. The question is whether this also applies to agriculture, the shipping industry, the oil and gas industry, the brewing industry, the woodworking industry, which is about to present special measures at a press conference – with Trond Gishe at the head – I read. Or is this principle of a level playing field a principle which is practised only exceptionally in this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e892	Facilitating as much as possible a level playing field between industries in Norway is important and an important starting point. But at the same time, we see that it will be necessary from time to time to put in place specific measures to promote investment, stimulate activity and achieve specific objectives. For example, in addition to producing food, agriculture has a number of other important societal tasks: taking care of the cultural landscape and ensuring that people live around Norway in rural areas and branches. Agriculture also has a social mission in addition to producing food. Such things need to be integrated into current policies, but the starting point is as much as possible a level playing field. Yeah, that's basic.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e897	When the Financial Committee had a hearing on the perspective announcement, Professor Karen Helene Ulltveit-Moe said that the communication should have unchanged perspectives. She had compared the 2004 Perspective Communication with the one that was presented now in 2013, and she found that the challenges and the need for detection are the same. Looking at important areas, we also know that the employment rate today is actually slightly lower than it was in 2005. The growth of productivity is significantly lower than it was in 2005. In the case of key measurable elements to reduce the coverage need, very little has happened, with the exception of the pension reform, for which the previous government started to implement. My question is, what has been done in the last eight years to reduce the future need for containment?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e906	First, in 2005, the employment rate — the proportion employed by the population aged 15–74 years — was 68.3 pst. In 2011, the proportion was 69.1 pst. I don't have the figures for 2012, but they're almost unchanged, I'll assume. The point is that the most important thing to do is to tackle the challenges of increasing life expectancy and the relationship between the labour force and the pension system is to reform the pension system. We see that the pension reform works. We show from the perspective that a good and forward-looking implementation of the pension reform will make a significant contribution to the containment in 2060. The fact that we have a high level of participation and low unemployment contributes in the same direction. Yes, much has been done, but one of the reasons why much of the challenge is the same is that what we know a lot about is the evolution of the population, while many other things are more uncertain in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e913	I see that the council has a light green tie on it today. ‘Hope is light green’ is the title of a noveller by Alexander Kielland. Maybe it's the one who inspired him. It was a fairly optimistic message too, and that is good. I would like to ask about industrial production in Norway: What does the Council of State think it will look like in 10 to 20 years' time, given the particular challenges he himself points to in his statement, and as the government has pointed out in the perspective communication? When we see what challenges lie ahead of us – Tofte can serve as an example – does the government now also realize that tax can be an important instrument to ensure Norwegian industrial production in this country, since a sample to look at corporate tax has also been reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e920	First of all, the light green colour to hail spring, but when I looked out of the window today early, I wondered if I was on the wrong globe, for the snow lay there. There was another bowl. I think there are three things that are important for industrial production in the future. One is that we are able to sustain a skilled and knowledgeable workforce. I think it's going to be absolutely crucial, because the second challenge associated with it is the cost development of the Norwegian economy. Year after year, we have weakened competitiveness compared to those around us that we compete with. Turning trends in costs becomes important. I believe that the Holden Committee, which is set up, will make a good contribution to that. We also see that there are changes in the particular corporate tax around us. There is also reason for another person to lead a sample to look at the Norwegian corporate tax in an international context. So there are several factors, but some of the factors that the representative named the Syverse are quite appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e929	The Left and Christian People's Party propose that the government launch an independent investigation and look at the consequences of a lower oil price and lower extraction rate for Norwegian petroleum policy, Norwegian economy and Norwegian public finances. Why does the Minister of Finance think that such an investigation is not necessary, when one knows that the consequences of this precisely are very great?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e934	Let me say a few words about the vulnerability of falling oil prices. There are two things that have contributed to the strong wage growth we've seen lately. One is the positive exchange ratio. The second is a high oil price – which also contributes to this exchange ratio. There are basically three things that can happen when the oil price gets lower. One is that there is a smaller cash flow into the Pension Fund. But there we have built a bulwark against vulnerability through the rule of action, by separating inflows into the Pension Fund from what you use in each year. It will put further pressure on the cost development of the Norwegian economy in the sense that it will then appear to be a more demanding challenge. A low oil price, or at least a dramatic fall in the oil price, will also be able to hit employment very quickly in the short term, especially in parts of the workshop industry. So it's less vulnerable to government finances, more vulnerable to jobs and costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e941	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e945	Forecasts show that Norway’s population will increase by about a quarter. 1 million people in the next 17 years. It's a fantastic expression of a society of growth and progress, where people are at work. In addition, we know that Norway is a society with small differences and good welfare arrangements. It's in stark contrast to what's happening in the rest of Europe. We have a good starting point. The opposition has claimed in this room today that it is due to luck. But it's not because of luck, it's because we've managed both natural resources, our human resources and our wealth in a good way. Now our task is to manage our starting point in a good way when new, big societal tasks are to be solved in the years and decades ahead of us. I'm going to give Right Representative Gundersen right in one thing: there's a different view of how it's going to be done. It is absolutely crucial which policies are pursued. It's about some basic political choices, where there's a clear distinction in Norwegian policy. Firstly, the view of the Labour Party on the matter is that the major tasks facing us must be solved through a strong community, in which both benefits and burdens must be distributed in a fair manner; secondly, that the great money should be spent on the great tasks, on well-being, knowledge and infrastructure, over tax cuts; and thirdly, that an organised working life is what ensures a decent working life. Workline successful. Job participation in Norway is high. The analyses in the Perspective Communication show that the labour force is our most important resource and a key to meeting the challenges of the future. The competence, knowledge and labour of the population are more important than our oil wealth. Then it's important that as many people as possible are at work, and that people are more at work. This is precisely why the Workers' Party is committed to ensuring the Norwegian working life model, with a strong trade union movement and strong employee rights, which are important for the individual worker, but which has not least contributed to the fact that we have a trade union movement that is part of and takes responsibility for the whole, and which has been crucial to ensure our ability and willingness to convert. Now that we expect people to stay longer in work, we also need to have a working life in which it is possible to get old. That is why we defend the Working Environment Act and the trade union movement and say no to the increased use of temporary employment and so-called more flexibility at the employees' expense. I record that the right-hand parts are now pre-shooting the autumn's election results. In the media, opposition parties have already begun to allocate government posts. It is quite alarming that the opposition begins with this round before any fundamental issues have been clarified, such as the common position on the rule of action and the economic policy to be pursued if the Right and the Advance Party should join forces. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have had almost eight years to decide whether the rule of action will continue to underpin economic policy if they are to win the elections. The treatment of the perspective message was a golden and perhaps the last opportunity to clarify that question. However, that answer has still not been received by Norwegian voters. On the contrary, we can record that where the right has previously been clear in his speech, the answers become more and more tedious as the election approaches, and that is not a good sign. What we know, however, is that when we are discussing today how the Norwegian society should best equip itself to finance future well-being, the common recipe of the Right Party and the Progressive Party is to weaken the community's income by tens of billions of dollars in tax cuts, and there are very good reasons to warn against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e962	I have to say, like everyone else, that a lot is good in Norway. You're great! And it's hard to predict, especially about the future. But what we know is that if today's development continues, as it says in the perspective statement, it's not economically sustainable. First I want to go through a few rafts, some of course, from the message. The first one I took before the Council of State, where what stood there, actually didn't apply anyway. Flotilla two: ‘Many countries have learned that unemployment can be sustained at a high level.’ Yes, that was interesting. In Norway, we have learned that the number of people on different social security schemes has fallen short. Flake tree: ‘When the petroleum industry is gradually declining in importance, we will need other competitive industries’. It is hardly seen as a particularly perspective-oriented and visionary statement. Flotilla four: «Good Community solutions enable people to live a good life.» Yes, thank you, I am the Labour Party State forever grateful. I can add that the Prime Minister has assured us that not only shall we live good lives, but also exciting lives. It's going to be interesting – and maybe above all exciting, some people would think. In the perspective report, there are several dozen times — I registered one page where it was five times — that Norway has low unemployment. Yes, I've got it with me. Of course, 80,000 unemployed are few in an international perspective, but these figures are just a little bit of truth. If we add that it is a total of approx. 700,000 people in pre-employment who live by public transfers are not quite as impressive — and despite the fact that they have never had more organized jobs, have never had longer holidays, have never had shorter working days, have never had more flexibility, have never had less physical work. Most of the Nordics are becoming less and less fit to work. Let me add another perspective that the perspective communication goes by quickly: the public sector and state enterprises employ about. One million people. Children and young people account for approx. 1.1 million people, and at the base of 1 million, are old-age pensioners. Of a population of 5 million people, only 1.2 million work in the private sector, providing all the income we live on. In the statement of perspective, the government chooses to sub-communicate the most important challenge facing our country, namely immigration from countries that are remote from us culturally, linguistically and religiously. ‘Norway is no less Norwegian by changing’ says author Khalid Salimi in today’s Evening Post. Maybe, maybe not -- it depends of course on how to define 'Norwegian'. Everyone understands and accepts that people from other countries live in Norway. In fact, I have not met one person who wants it not to live in other countries in Norway. The challenge is the pace of this migration and what these changes entail, culturally and economically. Norway has already become very different in just a few decades. In eastern parts of Oslo today, immigrants make up half of the population. Such development and rate of change are not sustainable – not sustainable culturally, not sustainable religiously, nor sustainable economically. But it continues anyway with undiminished strength. That's how the government wants it. Some refer to the emigration of the North to America in the 1800s and 1900s. Yes, one in three Northmen traveled to America in the 1800s and 1900s, and they settled together. They settled in Brooklyn, Minnesota, in Seattle. Yes, they lived together, yes, they married, yes, they spoke Norwegian. The whole point of the American melting pot was that in the next generation they would have a slightly wider perspective. Then they might marry a Dutchman or a Chilean – one from another nation. But it doesn't happen here, because the government has said it's quite okay how today's immigrants do it. An asylum seeker is granted refugee status for on average three relatives of Norway through family reunification. Spouse is almost without exception in the country of origin. It also happens in the second generation. In 2012, 15 400 non-Western immigrants arrived in Norway. It is similar to that of the population in the municipality of Henefoss or in the municipality of Rällingen. This happens every year. That's the perspective. The Seg Government is speeding up, for it is not that ethnic nordics and immigrants are increasingly united in a large happy family. No, in the Grorud valley, in fact, those who are from the same nation are not moving anything particularly outside the group that is from the same nation. Afghans are associated to a small extent with Pakistani people, etc. There's actually a fight between them as well. This is again a wild policy, a policy of which the government boasts. You look with open eyes at what's going on, but you keep doing this. Many Nordics are dismayed by developments. They feel alienated in their own neighborhood. They're not being heard, they're fighting windmills. No, it doesn't matter. The challenges are growing, and the Nordics must repel in more and more areas. Of course, the disclosures of the financial paper over the past few weeks should have received the attention of all media. Instead, it's a deafening silence. The newspaper made a poor attempt to contradict the calculations, but even an exercise in political correctness they had to embark on. The numbers' speech is ready. Demographic developments in Norway are taking place at a record pace, and the government is increasing. The perspective statement says: ‘We cannot continue over time a welfare system where more and more receive more than they contribute.’ No, and today's immigration policy is just contributing to this. For each year this policy continues, public welfare sustainability is reduced. What does the government do with that? Nothing. Various figures for the government parties even claim that today’s policy is profitable. The SSB statistics recently showed that while 70 pst. of non-immigrants – i.e. the Nordics – the same figures show that of those with Somali background is 31 pst., of those with Eritrean background is 40 pst., of those with Iraqi background is 42 pst., of those with Afghan background 45 pst., of those with Pakistani background 47 pst. These figures are probably due to different ratios. But it is absolutely impossible to ignore the fact that there is also an economic motivation here, and that various social security schemes contribute to passivity. Senior researcher Knut Røed at the Frischsenteret tells the Finanzavisen that some people get into the labour market badly, but well into the welfare system. He also says that the scheme is beneficial for people with low income potential and many children. The immigrant groups, who, despite up to 20 years of residence in Norway, are a challenge in terms of employment, come from Somalia, Eritrea, Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Morocco and Turkey. In total, these represent 148 000 people — several of them with the lowest employment rates. Both immigration and birth surpluses in the lowest-employment groups were twice as high as in the highest-employment groups. When people in this room talk about immigration, I wonder what they're really talking about, because they divide the immigrants into those who're going to work, and those who're not going to work. For me, all immigrants to Norway are going to work. When a division artificially does this, it also artificially separates on an ethnic basis. When we say that those who come from far away – those who come as asylum seekers and reunite – it is a little too bad, while those who come from Poland, Lithuania, etc., have to paint and stand on our houses. It's kind of a worry that they stop doing it. But the concern we should have is, of course, that many of the 15,400 we get on average every year, not working, nor being integrated into Norwegian society. Both immigration and birth surpluses in the lowest-employment groups — i.e. those from the countries I mentioned — were twice as high as in the high-employment groups. A perspective message that does not mention the greatest sovereign challenge for the welfare society is pointless. I can add: it's simply cowardly. It's cowardly, because these are challenges you can choose to deal with, or you can let development continue until our saved oil revenues can no longer bear the economic challenge. The costs of today's immigration policy mean that each taxpayer pays, on average, NOK 14 000 per year, i.e. NOK 28 000 for each household where both are at work. I repeat what is in the perspective message: ‘Tax and social security systems must therefore be designed to pay for their work.’ Well, then it's time to establish a relationship between rhetoric and politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1006	The communication is an important message because it provides a good professional basis for making policy choices on how to meet tomorrow's challenges. In my opinion, the announcement of the perspective shows both that we have been lucky in Norway by having large natural resources that the world wants and which provide the basis for both jobs and value creation, that we have been competent in Norway, and that there have been many wise choices. There have been wise choices of governments from both sides. It also shows that we are facing many major challenges in the time to be faced with a future need for detection. According to the perspective report, we have at least ten years of good times – with more advantages, with opportunities to invest for the future. But at the same time, it shows that in 20-30 years we will face significant challenges if we do not address them today. I agree with the Minister of Finance's words that pension reform is important. It is important that we motivate several of our senior workers to stand longer in work. It is important that working life opens its doors to senior workers. But we also know that many groups are totally or partially out of the labour market. I believe that one of the major challenges is the strong growth of young people. Unfortunately, we know that the road is short from leaving primary school without being able to read, write or calculate, to fall out of high school and to the queue in front of Nav. It is also worrying that many people with disabilities do not have a place in the labour market and that too many with mental health challenges are not in the labour market. Making sure that we have a well-functioning labour market and that we give a new chance to those who have fallen completely or partly out of the labour market must be one of the major challenges of the time to come. Then I hear from the representative Helga Pedersen that there will be great uncertainty with a new bourgeois government. The working party does not need to go back to what was proposed in 2004. The Labour Party can look at what the bourgeois parties are all about in 2013. In the 2013 Perspective Communication, all the bourgeois parties stress the need for a society based on small differences. It has great self-esteem. We want a well-organised working life with greater flexibility to adapt the work environment law to the challenges we face. The second important challenge in the time to come is to make sure that we use more of the oil revenues we're going to use into the Norwegian economy for investing in knowledge, in infrastructure and growth-promoting tax reliefs. One of the great misrepresentations of the current government is that it has gone beyond the consensus that the oil money will be used to build the country to invest in the knowledge society. Instead, the oil crowns are lubricated thinly in addition to the budget. The danger of such a strategy is that oil money is more used to postpone the necessary reforms than investment that can increase productivity and growth capacity in the economy. The final point – which is essential in the perspective communication and in the policy follow-up – is to ensure that we increase productivity both in the private and public sectors. Because productivity growth is the basis for raising wages or for strengthening well-being in the coming years. When I heard Mr Pedersen's contribution from the representative, I got the impression that you are so busy drawing scary images of a possible new bourgeois government that you can't see that you have painted yourself into a corner. You can't both claim that everything gets so bad, while you think everything is so unclear. You have to go in and look at what these bourgeois parties are actually all about – whether you are united about a desire for important investments for the future, increased freedom of choice in society, but also about a well-organised working life that provides the basis for increasing employment in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1023	All speakers so far today have at least agreed that the message of perspective is an important message – and that is good. It is because in many ways it sets the context for many of the other political debates we have from day to day – on the level of taxation, on pensions, on social security schemes, on the education system, on employee rights, on immigration, on social dumping, etc. A central point of the notification is distribution. For the Workers' Party, there is, of course, a good distribution between people and a society characterized by trust and high participation. When you have dressed a little in your head internationally and wondered how the Norwegian welfare society can deliver the extremely good results that we are doing, despite as many characteristics as standard economic theory would suggest to the opposite – we are talking about high levels of organisation, relatively high levels of taxation and the large public sector – it is precisely this factor of distribution that is being completely underestimated. The representative Gundersen thought it was luck that had created this society. It's wrong, it's a result of conscious political choices. More and more research shows, of course, this very context — that societies characterised by distribution consistently do it better economically, and that people feel better, not only those who were initially at the bottom of the table, but all. Therefore, distribution is a political goal for us in itself. Here the Progress Party separates teams with us. Where we write in the setting that it is a ‘target to ensure even distribution’, the Progress Party writes that ‘it is not possible to redistribute to well-being and prosperity’ and that they do not share our view that ‘greater economic equality should be a goal in itself’. The representative of Solvik-Olsen referred to the welfare schemes earlier today as something ‘that gives us joy here and now’, and did not recognise it as an important part of the basis for growth and value creation. I think it's liberating that it's said right out, but it also shows a very basic different approach to what creates good societies. A main conclusion in the message is that money on book is good and good, but the key to maintaining a high level of public welfare 20, 30 and 40 years in advance is to keep employment rates high and productivity growth high. It's a conclusion that I think we all share, but the question is what solutions we present to make sure that that happens. We must dry up the necessary reforms, even if they are sometimes difficult – and we do. The Nav reform, the Interaction reform and the grips we take to simplify business and apply new technologies in the public sector are some of the points. One of the main responses is the pension reform, which the Progress Party opposed. More and more older people now combine their pension to work alongside. Continuing that trend, we've come a long way to cover the funding gap that we know we're meeting in 2060. That approach to working life we have to keep up with throughout our lives. Too many people are out of work today. The miscarriage makes us think in a different way. Some people can't work. Then they won't work either. But too many people will be able to work a little, or nothing in bad periods and much in good periods, being a great good. The idea that you are either completely out of work, or completely inside, has to go away. But this thinking also requires that we have a working life with room for people. More restrictive working time regulations, more temporaryity, weaker dismissal protection and lower levels of organisation are not the way to go. Nor is it the idea of increasing productivity through massive tax cuts. The communities that have tried it have shown that it has failed. It was referred to Reagan earlier here today. In the United States, the one percent community has become a concept since the huge tax parcels of Bush have made sure that a small part of the population has left the rest. No one can claim that it has in any way increased productivity and growth in the United States. It should suggest that this approach to tax policy should be dead and buried, but it is still being highly prejudiced by the Norwegian right-hand side. Our answer is to strengthen the line of work by including more, not brutalising working life, strengthening tripartite cooperation, not weakening it, maintaining a strong public welfare system, not giving priority to large tax cuts. Erna Solberg has written in his book that the Right Target is a completely different society. Siv Jensen has said that she wants a ‘total change in today’s situation’. That's one of their points – if we're going to go into that debate first. In my opinion, it is a very comfortable backcloth and a straightforward clarification to bring with us towards the autumn elections and the election campaign we are now going into.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1049	Norway is a safe and good country to live in. We have good public welfare systems funded through a fissure layer, and the income differences are small compared to the vast majority of countries. The Norwegian model works. Our joint work is the basis for well-being. In particular, the proportion of women at work is high, and Norwegian women's participation in the labour market has grown sharply since the 1970s, when I took part in the labour market. It is nice to read that the value of Norwegian women's employment represents an equal proportion of national wealth to the oil wealth, including the value of the Staten pension fund abroad. Maybe we shouldn't look back when we're trying to look into the future. But I think it's a lot to learn from the struggle it's been and still is for women to be accepted as equivalent to men in the workplace. When I and many with me in the 1970s continued to work full-time even after having had a child, we were met with many prejudices that sometimes gave us a bad conscience, but which gave us many practical problems, with little willingness for kindergarten development and lack of school leisure arrangements. Today, when I meet young women who take it with full kindergarten coverage, good parental leave and father quotas – who have come under the red-green majority in large numbers – as a matter of course, I can flirt with some of the prejudices that didn't hold true. But I know that what we have of good things today has not come of itself, and I am proud that the Workers' Party has been involved and contributed to women's participation in the work. Some prejudices continue to live and do something about the importance of women’s work in the workplace. In particular, this applies to care professionals — professions that we become dependent on an increasing number of people choosing in the future. Still, too many women work involuntary part-time. At a time when there is a shortage of labour, there is still a potential for more women to move from part-time to full-time. It will also improve the ability of many women to have a wage to live off and prevent someone from choosing a social security rather than a job. It will also help to combat poverty in families with lonely dependants. Much has been done since 2005 in the fight against involuntary part-time, but there is still much to be done in the workplace to facilitate full-time use and to provide opportunities for part-time work. We simply have to avoid that workers have to spend time and energy looking for extra work in order to maintain a decent salary. I am therefore pleased that some time ago the government launched a statutory right to a job corresponding to the actual working time for part-time employees if they have worked regularly in addition to the agreed working time in the last 12 months. There is also a great potential in getting people to work longer. We live more and more in Norway – and that's good. But it is challenging that the proportion of pensioners is growing in proportion to the share of people in work. With the new pension reform, which is behind all the parties in the Biggest, minus the Advance Party, there are many ways to combine work and retirement. But there are also many prejudices and attitudes that need to be changed. Although we now see that more and more older people continue to work towards 67 years of age, there are still many who expect you to step down and become a pensioner much earlier. In meeting with a number of people in the presentation of the perspective message, several people have stated that they are expected to resign at the age of 62, and many become involuntary AFPs due to redundancy in the company they work in. Attitudes towards older workers and among older workers themselves need to be further changed if we are to achieve the goal of more people working longer and helping to maintain well-being. We can be inspired by Bruce Springsteen, one of the Minister of Finance's musical role models. At the age of 63, he's still doing the cooking and holding the concert here in Oslo tonight. Age is no obstacle to his performance on stage – we shall believe The Daily – and then there is no obstacle to us other people’s performance in working life after the age of 60 if we are healthy. Older workers can help ensure the welfare of the future and contribute to fulfilling the generational contract — if we facilitate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1068	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1071	Good Community solutions enable citizens to live a good life. Together with the growth of prosperity, the development of a common public security network has meant a great deal to combat poverty and insecurity that prevailed in Norway some generations ago. Equal opportunities for all citizens are promoted through significant public investment, including: kindergartens, schools and higher education. We have universal arrangements that ensure revenue and a wide range of public services and reduce the risk of sickness, disability and job loss. We have a tax system that provides the basis for funding welfare systems and transfer schemes, while maintaining the growth capacity of the economy. The prerequisite for this is that we have a broad understanding of the models we have chosen. Large differences can reduce the emergence of the Norwegian social model. Broad Community solutions depend entirely on, and must be based on, the enjoyment of the taxes paid by all citizens. The representative of Meltveit Kleppa mentioned earlier in the debate that cohesion has a global perspective. I fully agree with that. At the same time, I know that the representative of Meltveit Kleppa does not entirely agree with me that cohesion also has a regional perspective. Sometimes there is a debate about where the value creation takes place here in the country. Where is the value creation largest, and what part of the country is that that produces the largest values? The answer to that is probably a little bit dependent on who you're asking, but in many ways the answer is uninteresting, because this nation is the sum of the forces, the possibilities and the weaknesses of the different regions. It's all about getting the most out of the possibilities we have, and together we have to bear the costs, the burdens and the obligations we have. That is why we are pursuing a policy to facilitate value creation, growth, opportunities and good life across the country – a policy that is opposed to the policy that citizens are trying to promote, the policy on which they are going to vote. When we are concerned with tax equalisation between municipalities, so that even smaller municipalities with a weaker and more one-sided business base can have good welfare services, citizens say we should have more centralisation of tax revenues. When we are concerned that small municipalities should have the prerequisites for providing a good welfare offer, the Progress Party says that we should not, because we should remove the small community supplement to force them to merge. When we are committed to having regional development funds to promote growth and industrial development in the districts, citizens say that it is not important, because the county council is a superfluous bureaucratic instrument. As far as agricultural policy is concerned, we are at each end of the scale. When we are engaged in promoting agriculture that is important for housing, cultural landscapes and food production, the citizens are primarily concerned with a calculation. The whole country has to contribute, and the whole country has plenty of opportunities. We must build this under a public policy as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1089	In danger of being accused of black paint: carrying out a democratic mission and having alternative policies to the government is often confused with being critical of Norway. That's not what this is all about. As the government itself uses the OECD in its forecasts, it might be interesting to draw attention to what the OECD character book actually shows in terms of economic development in Norway. In fact, they have a wide-ranging study going on in all OECD countries – 34 – and their ability to meet the globalised economy. With regard to export growth from 2008 to 2012, a period for which the Labour Party must take responsibility, the export growth in other countries shows that in Norway we have an export return and end in 30th place. In fact, we also have a lower share of exports as a share of GDP than both Iceland, Denmark and Sweden, and we are far ahead of Finland. In the case of processed products, Norway is in the 30th place. In the case of exports to new markets outside the OECD, we are definitely the last. In terms of productivity and innovation, we are in the 16th place, as is the overall assessment of Norway among these 34 countries. What's interesting is that we're doing the worst of all Nordic welfare states, which are also said to have a good and acceptable standard of living and well-developed welfare countries. We also have a decline in labour productivity growth. We're now down to 28 pst. and have had a real decline during these years. Looking at an important and interesting parameter such as European patent applications, we are also the worst in the Nordic region. I understand, of course, that a message should be problematic, but it seems that our political leadership has fallen for the temptation to paint, and, to a large extent, devalue, the challenges. It should have been to want future perspective messages to just start from and explain to Storting the areas where we're doing the worst in the Nordic region. It provides a good basis for comparison; it provides a good basis for benchmarking. Secondly, the areas in which we are worse off than the OECD average should be mentioned openly, and consequently also in those areas in which we show less adaptability and competitiveness than, for example, the OECD average. the euro zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1100	We who live in Norway are sitting out on the green branch, perhaps we are also sitting on something self-absorbed and in a good way. But the way up to the branch has been long and demanding. Many generations have contributed to our being given this place today. Real political course, bloodshed and wisdom over time have brought us here. This is something that is easy to forget, because our memory is not always so good, and the most demanding story is a few of us who run the country today, who have experienced it. It's even easier to forget. The danger with the perspective message is to be satisfied with the article, because in a stack of sluggish seconds it may be easy to fall down. A little inattentiveness and a feeling of dull dissatisfaction may be enough for us to wake up after a heavy fall, a fall that may hurt for a long time and many, for it takes time to climb all the way up and find back to our place – where we are now sitting. In the perspective communication, we look at the future horizon, and it is not least important that the climate challenges are taken seriously. It gives us a safer future to live in, but stricter climate requirements also increase the competitiveness of our business, which is good for innovation and technology development. Recruitment is also an important element. We need to train and build up enough required labour here at home, while at the same time recruiting from the outside. In fact, a competent workforce is our most important resource. Our national wealth consists primarily of the value of the work we do. All 81 p.m. of the national wealth containing labour. The Norwegian model is like a big puzzle with several small and large pieces. This model has proved to be a good base for sitting. It makes the branch we're sitting on, strong and holding up. It also makes the governments and social partners take joint responsibility for calming the storms that are coming. That machine is gold worth to a society, and it helps to keep the differences down and give us equal opportunities to contribute, to externalise us, and to take a common lift when necessary. This part of the model is incredibly important, and if the Right is going to take the country in a new direction, as they clearly point out, the branch we're sitting on will be able to crack. Yes, just at this one point – for the Right, giving more flexibility and power to employers and less rights and power to the workers. It's old-fashioned and far from forward-looking. Politics is about people and just people. Safe people dare more, safe people cooperate better, and safe leaders dare to get their employees out. If the tree could stand in 50 years, we don't need a new course. We need safe governance and ability – at all times – to adapt to societal developments and the challenges we will face.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1115	As many people have experienced before today, we have a lot to be proud of in the Norwegian economy and business, but we also have some challenges that it might be of interest to look a little closer to. One such challenge is the two-tiered Norwegian economy and Norwegian business. Oil-related business is going well — one could almost say it goes so susar — while parts of land-based business have some challenges, as we have seen, among other things. in the wood processing industry. The high level of investment in the oil sector has created a cost pressure that, for parts of the other industry, is challenging to meet. The oil-related industry attracts capital and competence, and it gets to be part of the second land-based industry, which is not always able to compete. When I travel around to companies, which I often do as a member of the Business Committee, I get some messages that give cause for concern, both from the trust and from the leadership, about the challenges facing the land-based industry in relation to the oil-based. There are also some economists who are warning about this issue, and there is little use in moralising high pay demands when we create pressure in the economy. If we don't handle this well, we're actually at risk of getting a one-sided business life, which can be a problem when the oil age goes to the end. It's a point to build a versatile business with perspective beyond the oil age. Then we have to look at the rate of extraction, and we have to look at the taxation of the oil sector. But it's the one side. The other side is that when we now have the competitive situation that we have, it is an important measure we need to put in place, and it is building up during conversion and necessary product and process development in the land-based industry. One of the major challenges we face there is that in Norway today it is affordable to get funds for research, but when you are going to go to pilot plants and product development, you would like to get up to $10 million. Then we must have new arrangements that can bring forward pilot projects of heavy dimensions. What we have done in the context of the Innovation Communication, to facilitate such a boost for Innovation Norway and SIVA, is a very important step in strengthening the land-based industry, so that one can make the necessary adjustments to cope with international competition. An example of a system that works very well is the eco-innovation scheme in Innovation Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1125	One of the themes of the Perspective Communication is immigration — it is increasing. Work is the main reason people come here. The largest groups come from Poland, Sweden and Lithuania. The enlargement of the EU in 2004 is one major cause, the financial crisis another. The Perspective Communication refers to the red-green Norway record in job creation with 340,000 new jobs. 60 pst. of the increased employment of immigrants. Immigrants helped to extend the rise in the Norwegian economy in the run-up to the financial crisis, and in the last two years they have contributed to increased production capacity and conversion in the Norwegian economy. It's profitable, isn't it? It's also worth noting that 21 pst. by the establishments in 2011 were immigrants. The establishment tip is highest among Pakistani people. Conversely, unemployment is higher and employment is lower in some immigrant groups. Measures come in the wake of the integration message we discussed in March. It was about integration and equality, but also about the labour force we need in the future. Sealing the employment gap can contribute more than one third of the increased labour force we will need towards 2060 in order to balance the budget. The description of the positive of immigration by the Perspective Communication contrasts with the debate of the last few weeks, mentioned by the Financial Newspaper, which will tell us that the welfare state is unprofitable and that the number of immigrants hurts worse. They take the SSB to revenue for claims that immigration will cost us 380 billion. kr in the future, and others throw themselves uncritically on. Not surprisingly, one of them is the Progress Party's Christian Tybring-Gjedde, another party's leader, Siv Jensen, who claims that the entire value of the oil fund and the value of the Statoil shares will have been exhausted in five years. Where did they get that? The scientist who uses the media and the Progress Party as a witness of truth has himself been out saying that this is wrong. The researcher concludes that, as we have seen so far, immigration does not have such an impact on the public budget balance in the long term, but that it is the older wave that creates problems for government finances. In addition, the report concludes that each average citizen is a government-funded deficit enterprise, but that there is much to be gained from an even better integration into the labour market. But the Progress Party will limit immigration anyway, and my question is, How? By notifying us out of the EEA? Or by breaking human rights? My next question will then be: Are potential partners in the Right, Left and Christian People's Party comfortable with that? Announcing us out of the EEA? Breaking Human Rights? And do the potential partners in the Right, Left and Christian People's Party agree that we should put a price tag on people according to ethnicity? In that case, I am very interested in hearing the answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1138	I assessed a three-minute post under the posts of Helga Pedersen, and then I decided under the posts of the representative Marthinsen. Because we can misunderstand each other, but we don't have to do it that thoroughly. I think I used the word "flick" when we talked about the exchange rate and what huge luck Norway has had in sitting on an oil and gas resource that has had an extremely good development, while other imports have become cheaper. There I dare say that we should all realize that we have been lucky. Then we've been able to exploit it, there's no doubt about it either, but I'm a little in doubt if we've been so good in the last few years. We actually have a cost increase in Norway that is completely disconnected from productivity growth. When the cost goes from 20 pst. to 70 pst., compared to our trading partners, without us having an productivity growth that is at all reminiscent of being able to defend, I ask questions as to whether we have been capable in recent years. So am I. Helga Pedersen referred to professional participation. It is clear that new jobs have been created and that more people are employed when the population is growing rapidly, but the figures from the Statistical Centre show a rather worrying trend. We were at the top of professional participation in 2008. The figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that then was 71.7 pst. of the persons between the ages of 15 and 74 employed. Now in 2013 the completely fresh numbers show that we're at 68.7 pst, and it's been a steady decline since 2008. In a long-term perspective, it is quite worrying. Then a three-processing package is presented now, and then we're right inside the competitiveness issue. Had the government listened to the Right's suggestion that we should get rid of the strange cost disadvantages that we impose on this industry – whether in terms of depreciation rules, property taxes on machines and equipment, or property taxes in terms of property taxes – and had we previously been out with a more offensive investment in transportation, we might not have been sitting and had to settle the problem in terms of crisis packages. I think we should also dry up a debate on that, because all these proposals have been put forward by the Right several times – and have been voted down. I noticed that the Minister of Finance took in his mouth that we can actually experience that the exchange relationship goes in the other direction. Especially if the world succeeds in its climate efforts, we can actually experience that the exchange ratio goes in the other direction. The effects of a good exchange relationship that we see all the time – in terms of relocation and job losses – are not easily reversed. The environment is being extracted from Norway, technology, competence and everything is disappearing, and I think we should have some humility to face those challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1151	The Perspective Communication indicates that over the last 40 years, petroleum activities have had a major impact on the development of production and employment here to countries, and we are world leaders in several areas. However, as petroleum resources are reduced, we will need other and more competitive industries in the future. This may be difficult to achieve, not least the necessary conversion of labour and capital, without going through a period of reduced resource use and increased unemployment. It appears from the notification. Norway’s wealth of natural resources will continue to be a strength to ensure value creation, employment and activity across the country. We have as few other opportunities for sustainable value creation based on renewable resources. Fish, energy production from water and wind, forests, minerals – everything shows an important future potential for Norwegian value creation. This government has recently presented both a maritime food report and a mineral strategy that shows what opportunities lie in our rich natural resources. In a short time, the government’s business report, which will look at business policy in a broader perspective, will also be important to provide perspectives in relation to an innovative, knowledge-oriented and environmentally friendly business. Conditions of industry will also be an important part of the notification. Increased value creation requires increased investment in research and innovation. The majority — the red-green parties — show that Norway spends the second most public funding on research by OECD countries, but that research efforts in industry are lower in Norway than in other countries. They underline this need to strengthen cooperation between industry and publicly funded research institutions. An example of an industry with major challenges due to weak innovation is forestry. Forestry and forest-based industries are struggling in Norway due to falling markets for traditional paper and cellulose production and a high cost level. On the other hand, forestry and the surrounding industry, which have transformed into new product areas, are doing better. I therefore fully share the majority's emphasis on the fact that a stronger commitment to research and development for future value creation from forestry resources is becoming important throughout the value chain in forestry. It is therefore very gratifying that today, the government is presenting a package of measures for the woodworking industry, such as: contains just a session bet on R & D. The action package also includes several measures to reduce the high level of costs, including: in the form of infrastructure, repair of bottlenecks for the transport of timber and not least an extension of the capital of Investinor by DKK 500 million. Last but not least: the investment in infrastructure and the new NTP show willingness to invest in a forward-looking impact on business.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1168	I will try to continue where I was clubbed down last – and end my post, really. In the course of today’s debate, there has been some excitement as to whether opposition parties could act collectively in view of the long lines and prospects for the future. They have announced in the media that in this message and in the comments they have written, we get a glimpse of how they intend to govern the country in the future if they win the election. But the fact is that they have not made it clear, since they have not done so, especially in the most important areas in the future. In economic policy, the Progress Party is outside; they have a different view of the rule of action; they want to spend more money. In relation to immigration policy, i.e. in relation to inclusion, the Progress Party is outside with a one-sided focus on the problems and not a word about the possibilities. Climate and environmental policies also exclude the Progress Party; they do not even accept the conclusions and analysis of the UN Panel on Climate Change with regard to man-made climate change. Then they have – in the form of a note – written together that they want to use the oil fund, phase-in of the oil fund, in a way different from the government parties. They have probably not used the word "eyemarking", but they want to spend money on investment in societal things like infrastructure, more on research and more on business tax havens. They cast doubt on whether it should be ringing, or whether it should be given priority – I really don't know what the difference is. But now, today, we've challenged them on what's going to be cut – this is big money, that's 125 billion. kr to be re-prioritized – they do not have an answer to it, but refer to the budgets they have provided in recent years as responding to it. But those budgets don't answer. The Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party will spend more money in the municipal sector, they will spend more money in the care sector, they will spend more money on public transport, and they will spend more money in school, and they will spend earmarked money on learning and training. All the areas are outside what they say they're mainly going to use the oil fund. So where they've signed up, they can't answer what the policy will be like. So today's debate has shown us in particular that the opposition parties do not have an overall policy in the key areas of the future, which is what this perspective communication is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1179	A debate on an important topic is about to come to an end, and the debate, as several speakers have pointed out, has been exciting for us to see if there has really been a civil consensus on such important and vital issues for our country – far into the future. In this way, this debate has revealed that this is not the case. The representative, Gunnar Gundersen, said in his speech that one of the reasons we still drilled on this disagreement was that we now feared this bourgeois block because we had agreed so much, so that we took it small. No further errors could be encountered. These are, of course, the points of disagreement that are so vital to how we are going to feel in this country for many, many years to come, that for this reason absolutely there is reason to ask what a bourgeois block will actually do, both with the rule of action, the question of how to tackle environmental and climate challenges, etc. I want to address two elements of the silence of the debate. The first is the question of distribution. The Minister of Finance discussed this in his statement – the Gini Coefficient and this graph from which it was quoted – how important it is for us in the future to be able to maintain such an even distribution that we have been able to maintain in this society. There is the issue of taxes on wealth, where the issue of public benefits is important, where the question of getting everyone to work is important. But it's absolutely crucial – not only for people to live a good life, but also for us to be able to create more growth and not least to have confidence and legitimacy in the society and social governance we choose to have in this country. So that's a vital question. After all, I continue to record that, in the form of a note from the Progress Party, it is said that you cannot ‘redistribute to well-being and prosperity’. It's good to see it on the press, because then you get the cats out of the bag, but it can't be any more wrong. This is one of the important issues facing this society. The second thing I want to mention, and especially on this day, is what the representative Holmelid was also talking about, namely, the question of creating a different base of economic, growth and resources than what we have seen in the last 10-20 years in Norway, where we have become heavily dependent on oil, and where we see that a lot of the oil-related industry both pulls up costs and drains a good number of areas in our country for important competence. Here I have to say that I think it is very gratifying that the government today is presenting this package on wood processing – up to 750 million. I guess it's kr. It is a very important measure to help the whole country get used and we get more legs to stand on. There will also be one of the foremost political challenges for all of us in the future, ensuring that something can take over when the black gold seems to go towards the end of the road.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1190	Discussing the future is demanding, not least when it's a long future, as in this case. It's easy to bomb, and it's easy to come up with prospects that will turn out stupid in retrospect. But at the same time it is both unforeseeable and, in fact, inevitable not in the present time to prepare for the future. My and SV's starting point is that we, fortunately very many others, have a love – or trust is probably a better parliamentary expression – for the Norwegian and Nordic model of society, as the red-green majority here today describes as a three-part model: an economic model, a welfare model and a work-life model. For SV and the red-green government, this is not a bad shoe and almost a problem for Norway in the future. On the contrary, this has been, is and will be one of our main instruments for further good social development. The Norwegian social model is more an important part of the answer than part of the problem, as large sections of the opposition describe it as. I see both the message and not least the red-green majority's comments in the setting describing this in a very good way. It's good reading, and not least this balance, this interaction that Knut Storberget's representative presented so well in his post, between creating to share and sharing to create. One of the two starting points is that it is important to look at the relationship between private consumption and common consumption when dealing with future perspectives. Both types of consumption are political in the sense that they are largely political in nature. This will be highlighted in the message, and it will be highlighted in the settings, but there is a problem that I think we should focus on to an even greater extent. The representative Geir-Ketil Hansen has pointed this out in his articles in a very good way. The third and last starting point is sustainable development, and the message, like the setting, is unanimous – and it is commendable: ‘Day-to-day consumption and production patterns are totally unsustainable’. But unfortunately, the rest of the message and setting are very much related to climate emissions issues. That's important enough, but what I really miss here is focusing on the big resource challenge. I find it hard to believe that the resource consumption that our model of society almost takes for granted is a resource consumption that we can have in 2050 and that the world can otherwise rely on. So sail if one here assumes a very optimistic resource vision, this is probably the weakest part of the message. Then I also have to say in the end that it is partly amusing to me, sail if it should frighten me, where the fundamental rule of action is the Progress Party and the Right, and that the Progress Party almost rubs it into the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1210	Norway is a good country to live in. We have little differences in the country, we have a high level of employment and a high standard of living. Well-being is distributed throughout the country. This does not mean that everything is similar from north to south, but we have had a political climate in Norway throughout the post-war period that has had a goal of balancing the differences in Norway and providing as much equivalent growth conditions as possible for children across the country. We have a municipal economy that's designed to make it work evenly. It is not price-funded, because then Kommune-Norge would have looked completely different than it is today. The aim of the government is to provide municipalities with the most equivalent services across the country. Therefore, according to geography and other indicators, the economy is balanced. Finnmark is the county that has the biggest living conditions challenges, along with parts of Oslo East. The level of education, life expectancy and other indicators are lower in Finnland than the national average. Just 50 pst. of our young people completing high school. It makes it visible that Finnmark continues to face challenges that local, regional and central authorities focus on and take seriously. Those are light points. We see that individual municipalities are doing better on the national tests. Systematic work produces results. The important thing is that changes in basic attitudes take time. My impression is that the country is working well and correctly to ensure that young people in Finland have the same starting point as young people in the rest of the country. I believe that children and young people's offers in school and leisure are the most important tasks of politicians. It is about the future – the future of individuals, but also the future of the northern regions. The northern regions are the country's most important strategic field. Natural resources that are subsequently exploited give hope for the future. Furthermore, renewable resources such as fish, hydropower and wind power are widely available. These are resources that the country needs now and in the future. Our nature has always fascinated tourists, and midnight sun, northern lights, snow and ice are also renewable if we take care of our environment. Nord-Norway is Norway's sareptakck, which, by proper and wise management, never goes empty. These resources will help the Workers' Party's slogan 'cup and share' to continue to develop well-being, both in the north and in the south. These are good prospects.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1225	‘Flass’ said the representative of Gundersen. As a policy 'Severin Sovereign' he could tell us today that it is a shame that we have created 350 000 new jobs in this country since the government change, two-thirds of them in the private sector. It's just luck that makes us set up 45,000 new businesses in this country over the last year, and that we have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. It's a shame that the country has a government that's lucky, because we haven't always had it. A lot of things would look different if we hadn't had a government that has the strength to operate through forward-looking reforms. According to Gundersen, no one's profit is that we have developed a decent working life with equal rights for everyone. It's come of itself, floating on a mountain, independent of the social partners. Then it is a good thing that we in Norway have a responsible trade union movement that understands the value of reasonable cooperation between employers and the government. But then why is it necessary to replace a government that is fortunate with a government that may not have it? I understand that the representative, Mr Gundersen, has his concerns for the future, also in a relatively short perspective, and that he fears that the luck may end abruptly. But what I don't understand is that Gundersen and his party have spent all their time fighting a policy and a government that is notoriously happy. On the other hand, we can confidently say that Norwegian industry is unhappy if we get a government that sells out government shareholdings in business and returns to a business-neutral business policy. Norwegian agriculture is inflexible if the voters set the Right Party or the Advance Party to lead the Ministry of Agriculture. Norwegian workers are inflated if a future number of large numbers weaken the labour-environment law and defuse the fight against social dumping. I think the Norwegian population has considerable inconsistency if the voters choose a government that doesn't know where it will go.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1238	There's an exciting debate we're in now -- we're going to think a little bit ahead. We have also done so with the National Transport Plan, which we think ten years in advance, and where we are going to spend 508 billion. kr to renew Norway's transport network in different areas. The compromise – as a national transport plan is – between the three government parties is EN satisfied, not least because it facilitates reduced greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. It does a lot of things. in the case of a major investment in urban environmental agreements – 26 billion. kr – for cycling and, of course, for railway investment. What I want to raise as a problem, which I haven't heard that someone has been involved in here, is what the current finance minister wrote chronicles about, together with Matz Sandman, and that was the financing of infrastructure. For the SV part, there is a question of financing railway infrastructure. We think that the model we have today is not where he should be compared to the others – he gets discriminated against. We're building out the Gardermoen for 17 billion. Without making a political decision on it, we build motorways because we have tolls, and we build ports because, among other things, we build motorways. has fees. Here we think we need to move forward one step. I also work on this as SV had the Minister of Finance, so it is not a new issue. But how are we going to get more money on rail in Norway – more than we can do today? We in SV are very happy that we have managed to increase this bet as many times as we have done in government. We think that the mountain country of Switzerland has a very good solution. They have created a model of infrastructure financing that requires a third of their revenue to go to the road and two thirds to the track. So they've created a model where they put tolls — heavy-duty tolls — into a fund, and they have annual budgets beyond which to plan the development of the railways over several years. That system is adopted by the Swiss people. They want to participate in a effort that promotes the train's interests, the environment's interests and the climate's interests. We should also facilitate this system in Norway. That is why some of the challenges, I think – to the government party as well: how are we going to get on with a new model of financing of the railway that is not being discriminated against against other modes of transport, such as today? And then I'm going to give a final advice: at least we don't have to go in for the model that Right has, which is the asphalt of payment. That's the most expensive way to do it. That's why the right-wing government council, the finance minister, in Sweden, says it's stupid, and it's expensive – they don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1255	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1269	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1278	In this case, the government proposes changes to copyright in order to strengthen the legal system in the event of copyright violations on the Internet. The vast majority of hearing authorities were very positive to the government's proposal and believe that this amendment to the law is important, so that the justice authorities have a real opportunity to safeguard their interests. As a case spokesman, I also take note of the opposition to the amendment, including: from the Pirate Party. I'm actually surprised by some factions, like the Pirate Party, who argue that stealing copyright should be legal. Yes, it was also said and recorded that if, for example. The music industry loses a lot of money because Internet users download their copyrights illegally, they should think of something else to do – or take a walk on Nav. I think of these recordings as a good example of holding people's dishes and copyrights that you have to fight against. One can only imagine what the future of Norwegian music, film or bookmaking will be like if one does not support a good law that guarantees their works online. The fact that we do this in a good balance, with regard to privacy, freedom of expression and legal certainty for the Internet user, is, in my view, very important. It is crucial that we have good legal services on the Internet for music, movies, books, etc. Streaming services such as WiMP and Spotify, or good legal download services, have helped to reduce the use of illegal services. Good information, for example, is also important. in the school, what is allowed – or not – on the Internet. Internet usage and knowledge attitudes are important. We learn the kids from them are small that it is not allowed to steal. This must also apply digitally. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, are pleased that the government has focused on finding balanced solutions that take important care about privacy, legal certainty and freedom of expression. It is also important for us to point out that no measures are proposed that could lead to the exclusion of individuals from the Internet. It is suggested that legal entities be given the possibility to register the IP address used for suspected copyright restrictions. This is not a new feature, but a cancellation of the concession requirement. One would be able to make such a registration without a concession, but it has to be reported to the Data Protection Authority, which can control how it is to be carried out. In addition, it is proposed that the law enforcement authorities should be able to go to the courts to obtain information on what Internet subscriptions are attached to the copyright restriction. The Court of Justice has held that legal persons may obtain such information in accordance with the rules of the dispute in force today. The proposal therefore provides for clarification of this access. To the uncertainty surrounding wirelessly unsafe networks, which appears in the committee's comments, I would like to point out that this will be a matter that the court may decide on in a later case, after the identity has been disclosed. It will then be the judge who has evidence that the subscriber has actually done the infringement. I would also like to point out that the majority, like the government, think that it is not appropriate to introduce rules on objective liability if one does not secure its private network. The reason why it can be opened for time delays from the identity being provided until the person is notified is that it is important to ensure evidence that a particular person has committed the infringement. For example, it may be important to capture data equipment. Direct alerts to the subscriber could lead to a risk of destruction of such evidence. Government Party – Workers’ Party, SV and the Center Party – and the Christian People’s Party join the changes in their health. Right is also included, but with the exception of proposals for new § 56a. The party of progress seems to be more concerned with ensuring anonymity than having anything done about the violation of copyright on the Internet. The party of progress, which in very many other cases will stand out as the law-and-order party, and which is busy fighting crime and for more severe punishment, is not, therefore, when it comes to copyright. So musicians, writers, or filmmakers' rights on the Internet aren't that important. We need to raise awareness about copyrights and online dishes; we need a better balance of laws. Therefore, these changes are as one suggested today, both necessary and correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1311	Privacy and freedom of expression are key elements of Norwegian democracy. Internet privacy challenges are increasing as a result of technological developments, where the Internet and electronic communications have increasingly become part of the private sphere. Privacy and freedom of expression must be safeguarded when the Norwegian people use electronic communications — and reference is made to the role of the Data Protection Authority, which is also important here. It is proposed that the conditions for private operators to monitor traffic on the network and to have access to information identifying persons who are holders of the subscriptions used, which the Progress Party considers to be a cross-thinking. That's what we think is police work. The proposal also opens up the possibility of blocking websites, which may be perceived by many as a clumsiness of freedom of expression. Several critical consultation opinions have been issued to the government’s proposals, and ICT Norway writes the following: ‘ICT-Norway considers that it is alarming that the Ministry says that removing the concession will not affect privacy. There is reason to remember that there is no coincidence that there is a requirement for concession today. If the requirement for a concession lapses in favour of an alert obligation, several tens or hundreds of thousands of rightholders could initiate the collection, registration and processing of IP addresses on their own.’ This is what the Progress Party believes is a cross of thought, and we believe it is police work. There is information that is currently considered sensitive, and there is a need for a concession to ensure that the processing of the information respects privacy, which is important. Information that may link a person to an IP address should not be provided to any person other than the police. There has been a large public debate related to the negative impact on privacy and freedom of expression. Norway is experiencing today as – a grievance, I do not know, but at least having some scrupulous ulcers in publishing information about people, among others. on income and wealth, which had been debated in this Chamber before. The adoption of the Data Storage Directive further exacerbates data protection. It is important that the government takes the challenges of violating copyright on the Internet seriously, and it supports the Progress Party. It is not as the last speaker said – that the Progress Party does not care about law and law. Well, we do, and we think this is important. But that's why we also think it's so important that the police have to take care of it, and not the individual. However, it is a challenging field. I see that technological developments make the balance between good actions and privacy violations hair-fine, and it is also very inconspicuous. However, the principle that it is the police, and not private individuals, who should have the power to obtain information in the investigation of possible offences must be established. It is not that the Progress Party does not believe that private people can do a good job, but precisely this case we believe is so important in terms of freedom of expression and privacy that it is a typical police matter. I would like to address the proposal that the Progress Party has promoted in the matter. I also see that the Left has put forward a proposal on our tables today. The Progress Party will support it too, but it has not yet been promoted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1335	The representative Ib Thomsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1338	The right-hand side supports, with one exception, as the rapporteur explained, the proposed changes to the copyright law. We have on several occasions requested a review of the rules with a view to making them more operational in the digital everyday life in which we live. So we're glad they're coming, even though we might have thought of having them a little bit before. And there has certainly been a need for them. The transition to digital everyday life has been a rather tough round, not least for the music industry that has worked hard to get good technological solutions for its rights management. It's a painful transition, not just for the music industry, but really for anyone who delivers content online. Information technology has come with great power, and the dissemination of online content is part of today's everyday life for most of us in terms of culture, art and media use. The new consumption patterns that flow out of this are difficult to deal with because illegal copying has become simpler and because copies are often identical to the original. The Internet has also created a global arena where it is difficult to control or prosecute. Today, the big task here is to get users to legal, payment-based online communication. The starting point is that in many cases they expect this to be free, and that the legality may not have been so carefully assessed by the individual user. In this picture, it is important that we, as authorities, contribute to an audience recognition process of the importance of legal communication. It's important for moral reasons, simply because you shouldn't steal. But it's also important, and it's a matter of course, because it creates a basis for income for artists and other online content producers. Moreover, without revenue, and dependence on government appropriations will increase. The right is concerned with entrepreneurship in cultural life and sees this legislation as an important part of it. In this way, it is also important to see these legislative changes in a wider sense in terms of the framework conditions, where you can compare the value chain of digital expressions and of analogue traditional expressions. There is, unfortunately, a bias in several areas that needs to be addressed, including VAT rules, for example. Maybe it's the most eye-catching thing. The difficult balance in the work on these rules is due to privacy considerations. I feel that the government in the proposal takes this into account, and that the individual proposed rules have been discussed from this perspective. To a large extent, these considerations are followed by the Right, but on a central question we conclude differently, namely, whether or not a concession should be required to collect IP addresses, i.e. what appears in new Section 56a. The background is a general wish of the Right to maintain a restrictive line for all the collection of sensitive material. In this case, we also do not believe that any exemption from the concession provisions is necessary. The collection of IP addresses and further work towards assessing legal steps will in practice be quite complicated and require computer science insight. We therefore believe that this work will be carried out in practice by competent persons, preferably associated with rightholders’ organisations, who are given this task on behalf of the individual rightholder. We agree with the proposition that the collection of such material should be done on the initiative of the rightholder, but as long as this will be done to a large extent by others, we believe that there will be a need to limit the question of who this could be. In this regard, we still believe that concession is correct, and in practice no great burden on those concerned. As far as is known, efforts are being made to establish common collection systems or check-off systems on the part of the rating organisations. With this we join the proposal presented, but the Right will therefore vote against the proposal for a new § 56a.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1355	It's noted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1358	I see that there are some dilemmas in this case, where we are going to guarantee copyright, but also internet users. The Breathwork Act is in no way new, and there has been broad agreement on it, among other things. to give authors the rights to their works and performance. The problem now is the technological development and sharing culture available on the Internet. But copyright also applies here, although the awareness of this may seem relatively low. The best thing would perhaps be to stimulate the development of new services for the downloading and streaming of copyrighted material. But now I have chosen to be pragmatic and to help ensure that rightholders who get their copyright violated on the Internet, i.e. are deprived of their works, must be given the opportunity to exercise their rights. We have to recognise that artists and authors should be able to live from their work, and then we have to ensure the enforcement of copyright. More and more people expect to access most of the information and media products on the Internet. And of course, it is absolutely essential that attractive and legal services are developed in order to provide access to, and thus reduce, the disadvantages. Legal services must be perceived as good. They must be able to compete for ease of use, selection and time of launch. Fortunately, we see a lot going on in the film and television series offer and, not least, in the field of music. But there is still a great potential for development, especially in film, games and books services. And it is now difficult to imagine that legal services alone can sufficiently reduce illegal use. Suffering from the development of good legal services, it will be difficult to compete with what is unlawfully offered free of charge. An example is the launch of the movie "Kon-Tiki". The day after the launch on DVD, iTunes, and Get Box, it was available at The Pirate Bay. And despite good legal alternatives, it was a huge division. For the time being, enforcement means are being assumed to contribute to a satisfactory reduction in the illegal activity. However, there is no contradiction between the need to stimulate parallel development and investment in new legal services. The purpose of the case now is to strengthen the rightholders' ability to enforce their rights in the event of Internet violations. The draft legislation focuses on finding balanced solutions to safeguard privacy, legal certainty and freedom of expression. Like others here, I would like to make it clear that no measures are proposed that could lead to the exclusion of individuals from the Internet. Initially, I believe that enforcement of copyright on the Internet should be a police task. But now it is the case that the Supreme Court has rejected the fact that only the police are supposed to be able to enforce copyright on the Internet. The Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on Civil Matters should be enforceable by those who have their rights violated. This was established by the Supreme Court in the Max Manus case. Civil law enforcement is the main track of the law, cf. enforcement of ‘analogue’ copyright. The proposals promoted are to a large extent a clarification of the current law or, as the Data Protection Authority writes, ‘changes in the copyright law that do not result in major changes in reality in the current legal state’. One of the proposals is that today's concession requirements for IP addresses registration are terminated, but otherwise the Personal Data Act shall apply. Furthermore, a duty to notify the Data Protection Authority will continue, which may control the way in which the processing is carried out. The Data Protection Authority makes an assessment of the purpose of the registration and thus helps to determine whether you have real reasons to register the addresses. It is essential that only the IP address used for the infringement be accessed by registration, not the identity behind it. In order that the identity may be disclosed to the rightholder, a court decision imposing extradition shall be required. The postal and telecommunications supervision shall also assess the issue. So there are several elements that guarantee privacy. It is also important that a balance of interests be made in the decision making process, i.e.: that the reasons justifying extradition are required to outweigh the grounds of professional secrecy. The understanding of copyright changes over time. Today's legal text, both what I have touched on in my post, and the other paragraphs, will certainly be subject to new changes, as evolution progresses. There will probably be more debates about the awareness of copyright and copyright, how it should be understood and how it should be ensured in an ever-growing divisional culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1377	Respect for the property of others is a pillar of Norwegian law, but not only in Norwegian law – also in society as a community. Respect for the copyright of artists is also a pillar of a living cultural life and cultural policy. Digital reality makes it very difficult to enforce respect for these rights. The Christian People's Party supports the proposals made by the government. Regulation of access to the identity details of IP addresses. This applies to the introduction of legal barriers for the registration and storage of IP addresses. And there are rules on access to the right to request that the courts oblige Internet providers to prevent or impede access to websites that violate copyright, etc. in serious cases. We believe that the government has found a reasonably good balance between the important reasons that this law should take care of. It concerns the protection of privacy, freedom of expression and legal certainty and the enforcement of the rights in question. But this is not easy – it should be said. I think both the proposition and the attitude itself and the remarks and the problematisation from those who make up the minority here are illustrations of how demanding this field is. It used to be that if you were to steal music, you had to take the risk of being caught in the peaches at the store, with all the discomfort it could cause. Therefore, the fear of being exposed to this in itself was a very limiting factor for many. Today, you can do this with a keystroke from the boys' room or from the girls' room. That's why today we depend in a completely different way on an acceptance that we don't steal because it's wrong – and not just that we don't steal because we think it's embarrassing to be discovered. This challenges us as a society as to how we anchor ethics, how we anchor our values, and, not least, how we pass this on to emerging generations. At least during the transition period we are living in now, we have a growing generation that is far more advanced in terms of digital opportunities than the growth generation is. In most Norwegian homes – fortunately, we get to say – it would be moonlit if one discovered that the 14-year-old stole from the store in the street. Both mothers and fathers would be sleepless for several nights afterwards. But how the same 14-year-old has got hold of the music that he or she has on the iPod, I do not know to what extent Norwegian parents care about, or are sleepless at night because of. However, in view of the fact that the government has put forward a fairly balanced proposal that takes account of these considerations, the bottom line in the matter that has been put before us today is that we are facing major challenges in how we, together, should deal with this. Both the legitimacy of the legislation and the conclusion of the values at the bottom mean that we agree jointly on the rules of the game that have been laid down and that we agree on the basic value that not least respect for the property of others. It is rooted in our culture, in a long historical Christian tradition, where the seventh commandment reads: ‘You shall not steal.’ Respect for this is built-in from generation to generation and today appears to be a fundamental value in our society. It's a challenge for all of us to pass this on. What we are discussing today is how we should take care of and enforce – and ensure that we have – an active cultural policy, with active practitioners in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1397	The left is not represented in this committee, so we have to make some comments about the option. The aim of the amendment to the law that we are dealing with today is ‘to strengthen the ability of rightholders to enforce their rights in the event of infringements of the Internet’. We could have done this sentence again, so that it also applies to the phonograph, the VHS, the DVD and all the other technical possibilities that we have so far seen give rise to challenges in terms of the rights holders' possibilities. Every time new challenges arise, good business models have been developed. Not because the Storting has adopted good new business models – it is generally so that this hall is very rarely in front of the development of new technology. The last time we dealt with the copyright law, I remember there were very few in the cultural committee who knew what an mp3 file was or what an iPod was – there are great developments also for poor politicians. We are living in a global and digital age, and we need laws that take account of it, but more online surveillance and more weakening of privacy is not the answer we need to strengthen copyright law. Let me be quite clear on behalf of the Left: no one should be able to unjustly make money on the intellectual property of others, but we believe that today's copyright must be updated in line with technological developments, and that adequate and proportionate measures based both on fundamental values such as privacy and the principles of the rule of law must be put in place to protect copyright. We are going to vote against the whole amendment of the law that has been tabled today, because here, among other things, we are going to vote against it. allows the rightholder to register IP addresses without a concession. The majority say that it's a good and correct solution and that it's okay to remove the concession requirement. We're fundamentally in disagreement with that. I am very pleased that the Advance Party and the Right are raising privacy in their comments and that both parties are voting against that proposal. That the rightholders should also have the opportunity to go to the court to provide information about who is behind IP addresses suspected of piracy without going through the police, we believe that we are violating the general principles of law we have. If there is a suspicion of a crime, it is the task of the police to investigate and handle such a prosecution. We do not want private practice within our state of law, we do not want private lawyers to enforce Norwegian law and investigate crime in Norway. It's not like an IP address and linking it proves blame. Courts shall be given the opportunity to oblige Internet service providers to prevent or impede access to websites that infringe their copyright. Blocking websites is a reasonably extreme act that we know from countries we don't like to compare with. The Ministry has the following wording concerning: ‘The home shall be used with great care and reserved for the more serious cases’. I am absolutely sure that the Chinese authorities, who have practised this for a long time, also believe that they only use it with great caution and reserved the most serious cases. It's a bad definition to base law on. The government has taken good time to promote these proposals, and it is largely the same debates we had four, five years ago. It's actually a little bit 2008 all over this proposal. The government's proposal to amend the law is perhaps a half-good response to some of the challenges we had in 2008, but it's not for 2013 – and at least not for 2015. We asked for a NOU for a long time back, and then the Minister of Culture said at the time that it would take too long with a NOU. We had the opportunity to run a lot of NOU processes at this time. The cultural and artistic industries are changing rapidly. It's almost five years since iTunes became the largest record store in the United States, the first six months in 2012 came 68 pst. of the revenues of the Norwegian record industry through streaming, and studies of digital consumption confirm two trends that have been identified in other countries: decreases in illegal download, and the highest download rates are those that are also the most culturally interested and pay the most. It appears that private download was on top in 2008 and that the share of the streaming has grown completely since 2009. When SV presents it as that the «stacary» film Kon-Tiki is the one that has lost most of the fact that there are illegal copies on the web, I don't think it is entirely related. There have been many fine words here, but we generally break basic principles of law with these changes. With that, I also take up the proposal to send everything back to the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1422	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1425	New technologies primarily provide opportunities for artistry, innovation and dissemination. At the same time, it is also such that sharing culture challenges the ability to live from creative work. Spirit labour laws are technology-neutral and also apply on the Internet, but corrections to the paper are not enough in itself. In the event that music, films and other protected material are shared without the consent of the legal entities, there are today limited possibilities to stop this. For the government, it is important to ensure that the rights of artists and authors can also be guaranteed. The proposal for changes to copyright provides legal entities with better tools to enforce copyright in the event of serious Internet infringements. The legislative proposal has three main parts. The first proposal concerns the possibility of proving that there has been an infringement. The proposal assumes that legal entities are given access to register IP addresses that are useful to copyright restrictions, and it is important to be able to provide evidence that copyright rights are violated. Registration of IP addresses for this purpose is already allowed today, but it requires a concession from the Data Protection Authority. I feel that during the debate there have been critical remarks relating to this very element, i.e. that we remove the requirement of concession. I would therefore like to stress that, of course, we keep the other rules of the Personal Information Act, and they still apply to how this type of information should be handled. Even if the concession requirement is removed, the type of activity will continue to impose a reporting obligation on the Data Protection Authority, and it also allows the Data Protection Supervisor to supervise who benefits from the home and how the activity is carried out. The second proposal regulates access to the identity of an IP address that is used for copyright impairment. The legal entities shall be able to obtain information through the Court of Justice as to what Internet subscriptions may be attached to the infringement referred to in this paragraph. I note that the representative from the Left says that this violates our legal principle. In that case, the Left believes that the Supreme Court's reasoning violates our rule of law, because the Supreme Court has already stated that the courts can provide this type of subscription information in accordance with the rules of dispute. The bill follows up on this and implies a clarification of this access. The threshold for the provision of this type of information will not be reduced relative to the current one. Thirdly, it is suggested that courts should be able to require Internet service providers to prevent or impede access to websites where copyright is infringed in a serious case. I also record that the representative from the Left says that this is similar to something that a country does not like to compare itself with. It's new to me that we don't like to compare ourselves with Sweden, which is an example of a country where one practices similar instruments. It's a powerful tool, so the threshold for using this will be very high. These must be websites which contain a large amount of material that clearly infringes copyright law. If these conditions are met, the Court of Justice shall exercise a broad margin of interest to assess whether orders should be imposed. The Court of Justice shall weigh the interests which it holds against each other and shall consider the freedom of information and expression, which is a matter of serious concern. Both the Internet and the current web site should be allowed to comment before a decision is made. The authorisation to grant the type of order must be used with great care and the most serious cases must be reserved. This means that no obstacles can be imposed in the access to legal material made available in violation of Grundlova § 100. The respiratory system shall balance various aspects of care. On the one hand, it protects the author's basic need to live off his work while encouraging creative activity. On the other hand, society and users will be promised their interest in access to nature while enforcing copyright on the Internet and other important concerns such as privacy, legal certainty and freedom of expression. We have placed great emphasis on finding balanced solutions to address these concerns, and this means, among other things, that the courts should weigh the different interests that they agree with each other in assessing whether action should be taken. I have great confidence that our courts will conduct good judgment when this is to be counterbalanced with other important considerations. Finally, the left says there is something in 2008 about the whole proposal. I want to say there's something a little bit 1984 over the whole argument to the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1444	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1447	We see that the music industry and the film industry have suffered from illegal downloading, and we all agree on the need to combat it. Infringement of copyright is important for us to debate in Stortinget, but it is also important that we have the right means. The Progress Party agrees that illegality and crime must be combated, but the difference between us and the government parties is that we believe that crime and illegality must be combated by the police. Does the Council of State see no danger in collecting private data from the private sector, i.e. some sort of privatisation of the investigation that the police have been alone for until today?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1454	The civil law trail of copyright has our practices in the past, and the fact that one follows the civil law trail in this context is also in line with the Supreme Court's deviations in relation to Max Manus-saka. The measure that is about removing the concession requirement in order to collect IP addresses is also being endorsed by the Data Protection Authority, which in all experience can have a rather high threshold to believe that such simplifications are simplifications to the benefit of the individual. But in this context, this has been a clear message from the Data Protection Authority. It seems that I have been a useful feedback in working on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1459	I want to draw attention to the last part of the setting. It's a note from the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party. Now I'm not going to hold the council responsible for what the red-green parties are on and not on. I don't want to think of the idea that they've asked the Council of State about it, but you point to some of the most central challenges that this topic poses, namely respect for the copyright of each of us in our daily lives. The three parties point out that with the challenges we now see, it is important to raise awareness and respect for copyright and copyright, especially in children and young people. What does the Minister of Culture think about it, and does the Minister of Culture take any initiative to make sure that it is working specifically with it over the years to ensure the foundation of cultural policy, such as the copyright law?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1468	I feel that the representative, Håbreek, is the general understanding and respect for copyright in itself, and I agree with the representative that this work is important. I think that both parents, school and society have an important role to play in what we communicate to children and young people. It should be just as serious if a 14- to 15-year-old takes something at the store as it is if a legal person infringes his or her copyright in connection with downloading to his or her iPod. At the same time, I also mean that we make such changes to the law – in addition to the purely legal effect it has – also send a very clear standard message that the Storting as a legislator and the government are seriously violating copyright on the web, and that one should not underestimate the legislative effect it has over and above the purely legal effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1473	Last week we heard the Minister of Transport being terribly annoyed by the status of privacy in Sweden, where the law of the FRA has been passed, but now I see that it is ideal for privacy, so I should not pursue it further. The point of legal principles is that they should apply just as well in the analogue world as in the digital world – that the principles we have for how we treat each other in the analogue world should also apply in the digital world. So now the government opens up for private investigation as standard to directly raise cases in the courts. So I wonder if there are other areas that the lawyer Tajik can imagine? Is that violent crime, rapists? Are there other jurisdictions in which one can imagine that now we can ask others to do both research and take things into court, so that we don't have to go the way of using the police? We can save huge sums of money on this if the police can't do the job of investigating in this community – if we can do this privately.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1482	I thank you for the recognition of my education. So I just have to say that the representative of the Skei Grande characterises as a private research, is completely universal evidence protection that one would also have carried out in an analogue context. The fact that the representative Skei Grande believes that this is something the police should do, is to the extent that an honest case, but I record that the Supreme Court, which consists of the most competent lawyers, has a clear view that it is perfectly right to benefit from the civil law trail in this context as well. There is also a very useful guide to the revision of the copyright that we are dealing with here. I also look forward to having further discussions with the representative Skei Grande based on her professional background.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1487	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1490	"You shall not steal," is our seventh commandment, I have learned long ago. The bid was cut into stone tablets a few thousand years ago, but in this case it should also guide how to meet a digital everyday life where access to rights is to be guaranteed. I'm one of those people who think that the Internet has come to stay, and that it's time that we secure the rightholders in the digital world, too, and that makes the government in this case, and it's very nice to record that most opposition parties are involved in it in this case. We see that many fears that this proposal opens up to any rightholder to challenge privacy in his suspicion of infringing his or her copyright on the Internet – with the consequence that privacy is threatened. We heard that from the representatives of the Left and the Progressive Party in their speeches. But if we read carefully the proposal from the government, this topic is discussed very extensively. I'm not going to go into the details of this, but we can just conclude that from the first suspicion is present and until the digital thief is caught, we have a very long way to go before we know who's doing the store at my work. And I have the confidence in our courts that they are very well suited to making different balances of interest in terms of both privacy and legal certainty for the rest. As Mr Lagen Waogslid mentioned in his speech, several bodies have challenged the government that this bill challenges one of the most sacred things in our democracy, namely freedom of expression, and I share the opinion of the Advocate General on the Pirate Party. When the party also expresses that both the Ministry of Culture and the vast majority of hearing bodies act as ignorant, technological illiterates in this matter, it does say that we have different opinions about the law change we are dealing with today. I will give tribute to the government, which in this bill takes the freedom of expression seriously. I'm not going to refer to everything in the setting, but it's worth noting that what we're all protecting so strongly about – freedom of expression – is a central, but not absolute, human right. Freedom of expression may include, inter alia: be limited in the interests of the rights of others. Copyright and other copyrights under the copyright law are typical, good examples of that. In my view, freedom of expression, with its diversity, is well safeguarded in this proposal. In other words, I do not buy arguments for those who claim that the bill must be rejected because it is a breach of freedom of expression, and that the bill threatens the free Internet.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1506	First of all, when the Labour Party representative here refers to the seventh bid, it should be noted that it is actually a parliamentary basis to say that there is a majority for the seventh bid here also in the Chamber, to the extent that it is interesting. The stone tablets had probably been standing for a few thousand more years anyway. What made me take the floor one more time was Left's post and the representative Skei Grande. I will allow myself to challenge the representative Skei Grande once more after her posts. I have great respect for the fact that in such a case there are balances and different considerations. Those considerations need to be balanced, and that one can then disagree with the balance that has been made and come to a different conclusion, I have great respect for. But after hearing Left's posts, I ask myself, where was the balance going, if at all there should be a balance? How does the Left feel about solving the challenges here and balancing the concerns so that artists can actually be enforced? I also understand that you are critical of the balance you have made in the intersection between what the police can do and what individuals can do. I am also questioning – after hearing the article – about how the Left looks at the seriousness of the problems that are happening. You refer to Kon-Tiki, etc. I assume that the Left does not believe that if you go into a record store, it is not quite as serious if you steal a DVD of Kon-Tiki than if you steal something narrower with a much more vulnerable artist with a worse economic condition. I guess that's not the criterion here. There is something about what kind of signals you send out, and what kind of principles you put at the bottom when you first have to make legislation. I understand that the Left wants another regime, but it's very unclear what it is. Finally, I wonder how the Left as an important cultural ally for the Christian People's Party in many other questions really wants to ensure that we will have creative art in the future, whether it is composers or others who should actually have the opportunity to practice their art and live by it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1517	Just to make it clear, with this bill that we're adopting today, we decide that we're opening up to censor the Internet. That's what you're supposed to mean. I believe that is a violation of freedom of expression. But now we've learned from the Workers' Party that freedom of expression is not absolute, and I'm excited about how to censor other media based on the principles expressed here from the last speeches of the Workers' Party. Enough about that. I also want to answer Hope, sail if I had drawn before his challenge. When what was presented here is the perspective, I'm actually a little bit startled at the discussion in the committee, if that's the level of knowledge to put on. There has been a dramatic change in the dissemination of culture on the Internet over the last five to six years. A great many business models have been developed that make it possible to make money as well. Some of us said in 2008, but then everyone said no, everyone is going to choose what is free, if they can. No, people are going to choose the good business solutions if they can. Music-Norway could have made huge money if they had made those business models a few years earlier. Other cultural expressions have been able to find business models that pay off. Because when someone is allowed to listen to the music, it happens that they go and buy it. It's in the very mindset of listening to radio, it's in the very mindset that some artists actually spend something on YouTube for free, because it actually leads to them making money on it. Marketing is called, it's not a whole new invention, but it contributes to culture spreading, and it's possible to make money on culture. When someone's been allowed to sneak on a movie that turns out to be making huge sums on all the usual platforms, it actually leads to them selling more on other platforms. Some have made it a positive thing by putting taste buds on YouTube before they sell it, others are trying to fight it. Those who fight against it are losing. Those who try to use all the possibilities on the Internet win. We believe that if you want to create new models here, you can't break privacy. You can't start censoring the Internet, you can't start privatizing the investigation. All actors should be sitting around a table and creating the new models in view of the legislation here. That's why we wanted a NOU in 2008. In 2008, we proposed it, but no one wanted it. And now we're sitting here flicking on a law that's not done well enough. Here you should have had a proper revision of the law, here you should have all the parties sit down to make the models of how the law regulates new technology. [[President clubs]] But the level of knowledge makes it a little bit difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1528	The number time is over regardless of the level of knowledge. The representative of Øyvind Håbreek has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1533	I guess that's not the level of knowledge that limits speaking time, but the formalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1538	That's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1541	I'm not going to draw this debate any longer, except to remember that all kinds of crime prevention require difficult balances between different values. In fact, whether there are search systems or custody prisons, we see every day in the fight against crime that we break principles because we are facing difficult balances. So it's extra demanding in this area, and then we're going to have a special eye for privacy, legal certainty and freedom of expression. So I just want to say in the end that I think there are a lot of people who don't share with the representative Skei Grande's analysis of how far these business models have come, and how well they work. I still stand by that at least I do not share the Left's reference to the ethics at the bottom of how it should be seen on those who break these rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1548	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1551	The principle is very simple. We have such balances in all jurisdictions. Then I believe that the same principles that apply in the analogue world should also apply in the digital world. What we think is good to do in the analogue challenges is also what should be done in the digital challenges. But here we're turning on many of the principles, we're starting to censor expression channels that we haven't done otherwise, we're starting to say that it's perfectly OK that private investigators. I believe that is a violation of the general general principles of law we have in the analogue world, and then we should not use it in the digital world either. That's the balances that we have to have. Obviously, there are difficult balances in the juxtaposition in the fight against crime, but we have to be able to have the same principles in our physical world as we do in the digital world. So simple and so difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1556	When you hear Trine Skei Grande on the speaker's chair, you know at least what kind of profession she has – she's as instructive as it's possible to be. We know what we're talking about, even though we belong to the Workers' Party. We know that the Internet offers opportunities, it also gives many opportunities to produce artists. But what we're against is that someone's going to do the shop on the basement lines. It's in the case. But I record that Trine Skei Grande and Left want it allowed, and that without scruples.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1563	The representative Skei Grande invites you to some brief comments. She says there should be similarity between the Internet and the analogue world. Yeah, I totally agree with that. If you steal copyright in the analogue world – if someone, for example. print your things, you are completely free to find out who it is. It's a civil matter to substitute for it. What this law now gives us about the Internet is a completely parallel right: you have to record who has been raping you, and then you have to be able to sue him afterwards for payment – except that in this context there is extra emphasis on privacy, so that it is much more difficult to do so in the Internet world than it is in the analogue world. Then to the law itself and how it will work. It's not going to be any simple match to persecute people. There won't be any persecution of people in the boys' room. The economic incentive for the individual user will be extremely small. So, if you've made a simple miracle, it's going to be a lot and a long time before there's any money in it, and before there's going to be any great motivation to start working on it. That's why we've decided what we have on the concession case -- we know that this will be a few instances that will work on this in a large way to manage to fish out those who are tall enough for the courts to respond to it. You won't react to less outrage, simply because it becomes practically impossible to do it. So you have to call a spade a spade. I feel that this law is a signal from the authorities that something is illegal. It's a backtrace to make the transition from analogue to digital reality happen. In book context, the e-book now comes, in newspaper context, we're going to online payment services. In music we've been struggling with that for a long time. There have been arrangements, but they are far from satisfactory. They do not provide the basis for Norwegian artists to survive. There is a need for a strong signal and clarity from the authorities in order to help this transition actually take place. So it refers to all of these amazing business concepts. So that's what they've been waiting for. We're talking about business concepts that are about a fairly limited little niche, and about different ways of working. Of course, artists who are being listened to will have more audiences on concerts and stuff like that, but in relation to the billions we're talking about, in relation to a whole, big, wide industry within culture, within the media, within other parts of content online, we haven't seen those concepts yet – and I don't think we'll see them for a while.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1574	It's great to sit and listen to such a debate that has such a high level, with the knowledge that I have the impression that the individual has. That you can have knowledge of an uncertain future when you don't know what's going to happen, I think it's amazing. I have understood on the Left that copyright and freedom of expression are important to them, and so is the Progress Party. And it's important, as I also said in my post, that we take the debate and that we have the means. We see that the music industry has suffered from this, and we see that the film industry has suffered from it. But they have taken action. The music industry has taken steps to make it easier to download, to buy, and that also – probably – is less illegal to download. Then we see the film industry coming with its channels like Netflix etc., which makes it easier to rent movies with smart TV than it has been until today. But the Left Party and the Advance Party also address, which we believe is important here, is privacy. The fact that private individuals can start researching, monitoring and checking what individual individuals do, which has been a clear police task until today, we are sceptical about. I find it strange that the Storting does not take this more seriously, when we see that private can have that power and the opportunity that no one else has had before. Is this to save money in the police? And as Left and Step Skei Grande were: In what other areas can we see that private control is possible? We are very afraid of the private doorkeepers, but do we see that Securitas is going to start investigating rape and other crime? I think it's great that we have a debate, and it's an important debate, but we need to know the consequences of the decisions we're making.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1590	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1604	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1613	Thank you to the Committee and the Committee Secretary for good cooperation. This setting has not been a demanding committee work, for there have been tidy, fast recordings from the Red-Green, Right and Christian People's Party – and then the work was done. The reason why things have gone so quickly and painlessly, I believe, as the case-rapporteur, is that the theme has been thoroughly debated in the Children's Grand Notice on the run, in the setting of this message, which was debated and voted on in the Stortinget just before Christmas, in the media, at many conferences, and in connection with many asylum-children's actions last year and this year. When we know at the same time that the major evaluation of the message is under way and will be presented in about a month and a half, it is enough, understandably, many waiting to take up the asylum child-battery again in its full breadth. The starting point today is a Document 8 proposal, a proposal for a representative, on the best interests of children in the field of asylum policy, which proposes the following: firstly, that the government be asked to amend the foreign regulation to make it clear that the best interests of the child need to be given greater emphasis in terms of immigration-regulating considerations; secondly, that the government asks the government to clarify how the assessment of the child's best interests should be carried out; thirdly, that the Storting asks the government to assess whether the content of the child's best assessment is in line with international and national obligations; and finally, that the Stortinget asks the government to carry out a review of the current practice in asylum matters involving children. The proposers share, as they write, the unisony feedback from the hearing bodies that the Storing Communication contributes to further confusion through vague and partly contradictory statements rather than clarifying immigration regulatory considerations, and that it does not specify how the best judgements of the child should be carried out. The proposers therefore support the recommendation made by a large majority of the hearing bodies. The proposers explain why they believe that the ‘best’ is the primary consideration. The proposers believe that a legal review of the relationship between the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act and the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and the practice of existing legislation against the international obligations arising from the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child could contribute to important clarifications. The proposers finally said that the government and the bulk of the population thought that there was going to be a policy change as a result of that message. It does not seem to have turned on, nor will it turn on in the future. To the committee reading: Having received a letter from the Grete Faremo Council attached to the matter here, the Committee collectively states that it supports the wish of the proposers for an asylum policy which is fair, legal and humane. Furthermore, the majority of the Committee, all except the member of the Christian People's Party, says that this message promotes a number of measures to ensure a fairer, more judicial and humane treatment of asylum-seeking children and their families, and it is presented in the vote. As far as the best interests of the child are concerned, the majority emphasises that this should be a fundamental consideration when considering residence for reasons of high human interest, as laid down by the Regulation. the foreign policy § 8-5. The majority also point to the fact that the recent UNE practice suggests that in some cases more emphasis is placed on immigration regulatory considerations than was foreseen at the time of the adoption of the legislation, while practices appear to be less unambiguous. The majority also gives its assessment of the above-mentioned Supreme Court rulings, which are also highlighted in the representative proposal, and also mentions Oslo's handling of the so-called Nathan case and UNE's in-depth reporting of November last year on the kind of practice we have had since last year. The majority believe – contrary to what the proposers claim – that there is no basis for concluding that the message does not affect practice. One must await the June evaluation and then decide on the extent to which a change in practice has taken place and whether further action is required to ensure that practices are in line with the intentions of the legislator. Right-wing members have their own comitology where this is well discussed, but where the conclusion is that current practice, where the best interests of children are to be assessed individually as well as against immigration-regulating considerations, should continue to be the policy in force. The member of the Committee from the Christian People's Party uses this setting to elaborate and argue for the draft representative and to promote its own proposal in line with that. It will probably be presented and commented on later today. I'm putting forward the committee's recommendation. Furthermore, the Committee has no comments, refers to the draft representative and urges the Stortinget to adopt a decision requiring the minutes to be attached.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1647	This case is a reprisal from 20 November last year. I am therefore a little surprised that it has been released for treatment. The proposals that the Left and Christian People's Party is promoting today are identical to those that were voted down in the context of the review of the Report. St. 27 for 2011–2012 on refugee children five months ago. Four proposals are put forward. Proposals Nos. 1 and 2 are copies of the proposal of the Christian People's Party No. 3 in the Settings of the Storing Message. Proposals Nos. 3 and 4 are in content very similar proposal No. 5 from the previous round. But leave it formal. The matter is now under consideration, and it also gives the position the opportunity to clarify some rather unclear points in the proposals – questions we asked both when dealing with the notification of children in transit and in various debates afterwards, without getting any more than what I would call evasive answers. Maybe we can get a little clearer answers today. My fundamental question is what really becomes the practical difference between what has been adopted politics and what the Left and Christian People's Party proposes. Proposalers will have an asylum policy that is fair, legal and humane. The government will have a humane, solidarity and legal security policy on asylum and refugees. The Left and Christian People's Party again asks for a review of the relationship between the Foreign Act and the United Nations Children's Convention. Norway ratified the Convention in 1991 and was incorporated into Norwegian law by the Human Rights Act in 2003. If there were to be contradictions between the Children's Convention and the practice of the Foreign Affairs Act, the Children's Convention would, in any case, go ahead, but the introduction of new Foreign Law carried out such a review of the relationship between the Foreign Law and the United Nations Children's Convention as requested by the Left and the Christian People's Party. In addition, the relationship with the Children’s Convention has been carefully assessed in the child-breeding notification. What exactly is the Left and Christian People's Party supposed to come up with in a new assessment that hasn't come up before? I would like to get a clear answer to that. The Left and Christian People's Party also asks for a change in the foreign regulations. Today, it says that in assessing strong human considerations according to § 38 of the Act, special attention should be paid to children's connection with the State. The law states that the best interests of the child should be a fundamental consideration, as is also stated in the Convention on the Rights of the Child. How does the Left and Christian People’s Party feel that the wording should be? In the proposal, they state that the regulation must make it clear that the best interests of children need to be given greater attention. What does that mean? Furthermore, the Left and Christian People's Party operates with its own interpretation of the Convention and claims that the best interests of children should be the primary consideration and, as a general rule, should be given to other considerations. What does that even mean? What will that mean in practice? In the context of the processing of the gross domestic product notification, the two batches proposed that the foreign regulation be amended so that stays for more than three years were defined as a special link with the State. It's been dropped this time. Does that mean it doesn't apply anymore? In the previous round, when we asked about this in practice, free immigration for families with children means that everyone is allowed to stay after three years, we got a strange answer that this was – and I quote – ‘a tipping point where children’s connection to the kingdom is actually worth more than immigration-regulating considerations’. What does that mean, in conjunction with today's proposal that the general rule is that the best interests of children should be the primary consideration? And if that doesn't mean that everyone who stays over three years is going to be, what does that mean? Who should be tilted in, and who should be tilted out – according to what criteria? There are perhaps more people here who contribute to confusion and lack of concreteness. In the vote, the proposers say that there is also a need for a regulation that emphasises that the child's best assessment must be made in the individual decision and that the reasons for emphasising the different considerations are clarified in the decisions. That regulation already exists, it was introduced in 2011 and was in addition to the obligation to state reasons contained in the Administrative Act. Finally, the government is asked to review current practices. That review will take place in June. So once again: what is it really the Left and Christian People's Party that wants to achieve with this proposal that does not already apply, except for the liberalisation of the legislation through a three-year limit for who will be? Or was it perhaps not meant to be perceived just like that anyway? It would have been nice to get some clear answers, both from the Left and from the Christian People's Party in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1670	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for a balanced and evidence-based presentation, in which he among other things. refers to the law in force from two judgments of the Court of Justice of 21 December last year. I would like to say that it is good to see that SV also has an approach that approaches the vision of the Progress Party and most other parties have in this matter, then with the exception of the Christian People's Party and the Left. It is difficult to see this representative proposal from the Christian People's Party and the Left as anything but an attempt at a rematch after the handling of the Message. St. 27 for 2011–2012, Children on the run, and as the case-rapporteur mentioned in his statement, this has been debated countless times. Therefore, like the previous speaker, I am a little surprised that the matter is now being dealt with again in Stortinget. We're all positive to kids, and most of us are happy in kids. This issue does not concern only young people; it concerns the nature of immigration policy in Norway. Perhaps Norway is the world’s best country to live in — Norway is at least the world’s best country to live in for some. This is not to say that Norway is the world’s best country for all the world’s young people; it is fully possible to have a happy growth in a country other than Norway. This elementary point seems to be lacking in those who are trying to make babies poor, not least the so-called asylum seekers. Is it really inconceivable that these kids can have a good growth in another country as well? Children are seeking, children are flexible, children are creative, and not least contact seekers. Of course, it is positive that an asylum child has Norwegian friends, and of course it is positive that they have gained insight into Norwegian culture and perhaps also gained good knowledge in the Norwegian language. But should this prevent them from learning a different language in another country, from learning culture in their parents' home country, and from learning their parents' language, if they do not already know it? I don't find any really good arguments for all kids to live in Norway, not least because it violates culture and growing conditions in other countries. This is a strange form of cevinism that I can't support. If we add that we are not to introduce sabotage of a legally adopted decision by a Norwegian administrative body, and that immigration into Norway is already unwarrantedly high, we have the essence in the view of the Progress Party on this proposal for a representative. Otherwise, I refer you to the comments of the Progress Party in the Report. St. 27 for 2011–2012 Children on the run.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1683	I would also like to start by thanking the rapporteur, who has presented the broad majority of the Committee on this matter in an excellent way. This broad majority has underlined the importance of children’s interest in the handling of asylum applications through the high-quality child-growth communication. The right considers that the core of this issue lies in the understanding of the third paragraph of Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act, which explicitly indicates that the best interests of the child are fundamental, and states that even if the situation is not serious, children may be granted a residence permit even if the situation would otherwise provide the basis for an adult’s residence permit. The Convention on the Rights of the Child does not impose an absolute obligation on each case to decide. There is room for opposing considerations, such as: consideration of controlled and regulated immigration, which may in principle be given equal or even greater weight to the best interests of the child. The more important the decision is for the child’s situation, the more important it is to focus on the opposite considerations, such as: the immigration regulators. The Directorate for Foreign Affairs and the Department for Foreign Affairs must therefore carry out an overall assessment of the individual case for all reasons of humanitarian residence. The right is committed to caring for the interests of children in asylum matters. Therefore, the Right considers that it was important and appropriate to amend the Foreign Affairs Act of 2010 in order to ensure that the interests of children are respected in line with the requirements of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. At the same time, it is important to manage the institution in a good manner, so that people with a need for protection stay, while those who do not have this need are refused and have to return as quickly as practicable. The assessment of the best interests of the child in a case can be a challenge. It cannot be assumed that it will always be in the best interests of the child to have a permanent stay in Norway. In addition, the best interests of the child shall also be weighed against other important considerations, such as immigration regulatory considerations and the best interests of other children, in the sense that practices should not encourage more children to seek asylum in Norway if they do not need such protection. In fact, there is a balance between the interests of several children, where society and those not yet immigrated, those who do not remain on reception, have a legitimate need for protection. Today's practice, where the best of each child is to be assessed individually as well as against opposing considerations, should continue to apply to our immigration policy. At the same time, it is important that work on setting up return agreements needs to be intensified, so that children of asylum seekers with rejection do not remain in Norway for several years. The right will also actively use the aid policy to support the return of persons without legal residence in Norway, and allow the government to instruct UNE in the same way as the UDI, so that it has the opportunity to intervene in key issues and monitor practices as they follow. To the right, the notified evaluation to be carried out by UNE practice is scheduled for June 2013 and is then due at the beginning of the summer holiday. We will wait for further follow-up until this evaluation is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1700	The attitude and debate so far show that the Stortinget is united on a very central premise: asylum policy should be fair, law-abiding and humane. This is fundamental to the Center Party as well. Any individual seeking asylum in Norway, or staying on other grounds, shall have the security of legal certainty and human rights. The issue of the best of children in asylum policy has been debated in depth in the year since the government issued the child-removal report – and before. It's not for no reason. Asylum policy is a complex policy area, with difficult dilemmas between the consideration of individuals in vulnerable situations and the consideration of a consistent, coherent and fair policy. Extra important and difficult are these balances when it comes to young people, whether they come alone or with family. Regardless of the background, children’s migrants will be in a particularly vulnerable situation — and therefore extra attention should be paid to these issues. This applies from the time of the search process and until the child may have been allowed to stay and be integrated into the Norwegian community. Additional consideration must also be given to children in cases where they are the subject of a refusal and shall return to – or together with – family or other caregivers. In recent years, the proportion of young people seeking protection in Norway is under 30pst. of the total number of asylum seekers. For various reasons, too many of these children and their families have been waiting for too long in a situation that they experience as unsolved. Suffering from this in many cases is due to the failure of parents to comply after final rejection, in any case it would be a burden for young people to have their childhood put on hold. The reception of asylum is not a good framework for a child's growth. In the public debate on refugee children, the focus is particularly on long-term young people. The interpretation of the UN Children’s Convention that the best interests of young people should be a fundamental consideration in all kinds of matters relating to young people is central and has been discussed. The Government’s recent practice in dealing with complaints in the field of foreign affairs suggested that in some cases more attention was given to immigration policy considerations than was foreseen at the time of the adoption of the legislation, and that practices at the same time appeared to be less unambiguous. As a result, part of the elements to be included in the assessment of the best interests of children were made clear. This applies, inter alia, to: age, total length of residence in Norway, whether the child has attended school or kindergarten, chatter Norwegian, takes part in leisure activities, has friends or otherwise is particularly related to the Norwegian community. Another important clarification was that both residence periods such as asylum seekers and residence periods after final rejection should be counted. These were important clarifications, but, above all, it is important to prevent young people from getting into such a situation that they remain for a long time in an unsolved situation. The message therefore focused on shorter processing times, faster return and faster residence of those who are allowed to stay. Proposals now seek to amend the foreign policy in order to make it clear that the best interests of the child need to be given greater emphasis. We believe that the Storing Message has just contributed to such clarification. In addition, the government will follow developments in practice in the future and UNE has been asked to explain its practice in such cases by 14 June of this year, which has already been mentioned. The parties argue that, in the light of this report, the government will decide whether further action is required to ensure that practices are in line with the intentions of the legislator.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1721	Increasing numbers of asylum seekers are growing up in Norway without a legal stay. This is in most cases a long-term child of asylum who is difficult or impossible to return with coercion, or where parents experience the danger of returning so dramatically that they choose to stay in Norway, despite the difficult situation in which they live. It has to be considered that the long-term asylum children in Norway have not chosen their fate. They become innocent victims between the choice of parents and national policies and practices. It is the real situation of children, their rights and needs, and not a political desire to set an example to their parents, which should be crucial when dealing with the situation and relationship of children with Norway. The main message acknowledges that practices have been too rigorous in assessing the best interests of the child against immigration-regulating considerations and that practices appear to be inconclusive. At the same time, I still miss an explanation of the consequences of this recognition. The government itself had created a expectation that the child-breeding message would clarify to what extent the child's best interests should be focused on immigration-regulating considerations. Unfortunately, the message contributed to further confusion through vague and partly contradictory statements. Even after the notification was submitted, there has been a refusal of a youth residence permit with an uncertain return situation and over 10 years of residence in Norway. So when the representative Lise Christoffersen calls for clarity and answers from the Christian People's Party and the Left, this is not a rhetorical debate here in the Chamber. There are people in society today who want clear answers from the government, and it is the government who has a duty to deliver clear answers to this group. A number of organisations have recommended the development of a regulation which clarifies how the best assessment of the child is to be carried out and which makes it clear that greater emphasis must be placed on the best interests of the child in relation to immigration regulatory considerations. It is important that children are heard more fully in matters that deal with themselves. Today, the UDI conducts discussions with the affected children. It is essential that not only UDI but UNE implement measures to comply with the child’s human rights when it comes to being heard. Several organisations have also pointed out, both before and after the treatment of children, that there is a need for a legal review of the relationship between the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. Such a legal review could contribute to important clarifications. I am disappointed that the presentation and decision regarding the notification of children in transit did not appear to have led to any change of practice at the foreign administration, despite the fact that it was claimed by the government team that it would. But, unfortunately, I'm not surprised. The former director of UNE, Terje Sjeggestad, repeatedly stated that there would be no change in the practice of the foreign administration without amending the law or regulation. In order to ensure a practice in line with the wishes of the majority of the population, where the best interests of the child take precedence over immigration-regulating considerations in the handling of asylum applications dealing with children, the Christian People's Party believes that there is a need for a regulatory change. It's time we took responsibility, that we do our job as legislative power, and that we give these children clear laws, clear rights, an inclusive society and a dignified life. I am addressing the proposals made by the Christian People's Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1738	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1741	Lise Christoffersen is stated that we do not give in. No, we're not going to give up. We're not going to give up until we've changed our practices in relation to children. Let me quote Knut Storberget, former Minister of Justice: ‘Two-three years in a child’s life is a sea of time.’ We will not give up until we change this. The Supreme Court has had a case for treatment just before Christmas dealing with the emphasis on the attachment of asylum-seekers to Norway. We know that the family in question did not stay after treatment in the Supreme Court, and I think it is important to re-treat this in the light of this. In the judgment, the first-rater writes: ‘In general, the area of justice is characterised by difficult balances of a pronounced political nature. This applies not least to the two central opposing considerations in our case, namely the best and immigration-regulating considerations of the child.’ The country's highest court has said its own. Now the ball is actually on the political track half. Therefore, it is relevant to raise this matter again. The children's message on the run, which was presented by the government last year, was a pure discussion task, where one would not change anything, but made some new words so that it would not be so difficult for SV to do as today, namely to stand and argue for the comments with the Progress Party. All the professional bodies and hearings were quite unanimous and unisone in their feedback, as it says in the file, and that this was not good enough. This is the basis for promoting a document 8. One of the proposals that are important here is the important decision it is for a child to be allowed to live up to in Norway or to be sent back to a country where it has never been. Here, we clearly see that immigration-regulating considerations are always given priority in the assessment. That's what we're talking about. In the judgment of September of last year, the First Advocate of the Supreme Court ruled on Children in exile: ‘The main impression of the message is that the government adheres to today’s legislation and believes that today’s practice should be continued, but with some nuances.’ That's what I think I'm good at, and that's very precise. It shows that we are not allowed to make any changes, such as a claim made with the message. These are decisions that are very important to the kids involved. It is about their future, about their lives, in a country like Norway, and we point out that our human rights extend so far that we can put long-term asylum children before immigration-regulating considerations. Many of them are born in Norway, they have Norwegian friends, they speak Norwegian, they know no culture other than Norwegian. These are children who, for all practical purposes, are Norwegian. There is no doubt that there has been a political communication that illegal residence should not be weighted, whether this applies to children who have not taken the decisions taken. The second candidate in the Supreme Court stated in December: ‘In my view, it is not appropriate to add the self-weight that the absence of an exit is, if necessary, a ‘major infringement of the Foreign Affairs Act’ which may give rise to the expulsion of the parents. Such an independent emphasis on the violation of the law itself is incompatible with the premise that even living time after the final refusal is to be counted. The stronger the connection, the more serious the immigration regulatory concerns that are against the granting of a residence permit – that the increased connection is almost ‘zero’.’ This is what didn't win the majority in the Supreme Court, but that's a very good point. Gross violations of the Foreign Affairs Act, not going out, are being weighed up against living in the country, which results in these two considerations being zeroed out with the perspective we have today. I fully agree with second-voting in the Supreme Court when he believes that this cannot be attributed to the same weight, as it is also not the choice of children to remain in Norway. I would, of course, finally say that we are voting for all the proposals that the Christian People's Party has promoted in the committee, and I am very pleased with the job they have done there.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1774	Today we have legislation that states that the best interests of the child should be fundamental. Children may be granted a residence permit in Norway even if the situation is not so serious that an adult’s residence permit would be granted. In this assessment, particular attention shall be paid to the relationship of children. I have noticed that in the Committee's position there is broad support for the current policy for asylum seekers and their families. An important instrument for ensuring that practice and judgement are consistent with the intentions of the legislator is to clarify the weight of the various relevant elements. We have done this in the big news about children on the run. I believe that the mention of the provision on the attachment of children will clarify the work of foreign agencies, in a direction that benefits individuals. It is now too early to establish the importance of the notification for specific asylum cases involving children with special links with Norway. The Foreign Affairs Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Department have been asked to explain their practice in cases involving long-term children in June of this year, i.e.: one year after the child-breeding notification was submitted. We then get a better basis to see if practice is consistent with the intentions of the legislator. However, I am pleased that last November's Foreign Affairs Department's preliminary report to the Ministry of Justice and Defence shows that the Storing Message is actively used as an additional legal source in the proceedings of the Foreign Affairs Department. I have noticed that the Committee's minority believes that the long-term asylum children are becoming innocent victims of parents' choices and immigration policy. I would like to point out that the connection of the individual child cannot be seen separately from the consequences of granting a residence permit. Other similar cases need to be treated equally, and close to 40 pst. all asylum seekers are children or part of a family of children. The importance of controlled immigration is therefore strongly felt. Nor is it the case, as the minority argues, that consideration of the child's best interests should, as a general rule, be given to other considerations. The best interests of the child are undoubtedly very important, but it is clear from the preparatory work of the Foreign Affairs Act that immigration regulatory considerations can be given equal or greater weight. It is not in line with the legal assumptions to interpret the difference in the use of words so far that the choice of ‘shall’ is weighted and ‘may’ be weighted is intended to be decisive for the weighting of the two considerations. In order to ensure that children do not remain for a long time in Norway without a residence permit, it is essential that asylum applications are treated promptly and that return takes place quickly after rejection. The government has therefore taken action to ensure faster procedures for families with children, and we have also strengthened the return work. For the government it is a priority task to motivate the families for voluntary return. There are very few countries where it is not possible to return to, when the foreigner himself is involved in the return journey. The cooperation and presentation of identity documents by parents is often crucial for the return of parents and children. The government is also working on measures to facilitate forced return where necessary. The way in which the provision on the relationship of children is understood is only one of several measures in the notification of children in transit. In addition, the government will, among other things: ensure good child-bearing competence in the management of foreign affairs and carry out an external monitoring and evaluation of how children’s situation is highlighted in the proceedings in the Foreign Affairs Study. This also means that we will assess the use and need for oral consultation of children. Let me stress that the government will conduct a consistent, fair and legally secure refugee and asylum policy, anchored in the international conventions of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1801	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1804	In the proceedings, two, or rather three, Judges, are mentioned. One is Oslo District Court judgment in the so-called Nathan case. And then there are the two judgments in the Supreme Court, the judgment number, respectively. 2398 and 2399 of 2012. My question is as follows: How much should this case law be emphasized in relation to the two judgments in the Supreme Court, and does the Council of State consider this case law to be in accordance with the two judgments in the Supreme Court?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1809	In principle, judgment shall be given in accordance with the laws, regulations and administrative provisions in force. As regards the first two Supreme Court rulings, it has been mentioned that these were cases that took place and were decided before the notification of refugee children was submitted. What we can see is that in the Supreme Court cases that have been decided, the notification has also been discussed and has thus gained the importance of post-work that was central. How, when both the judgments and the notification affect the legislation we have, we will follow closely, and it is also important for us when we receive the evaluation from the Department of Foreign Affairs, to see if the clarification of the practice the Storting has asked for has been followed up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1814	I come back to the letter that the Minister of Justice wrote to the Committee during the examination of this matter, dated 22 February, where it says: ‘The full Court has recently given two judgments on long-term children, in which the foreign student’s refusal was maintained. [[...]] I would like to point out that the Supreme Court has used, in its handling of the cases, the child notification in transit as a legal source, and has emphasised this." Now there was one of the issues in these cases if you were to pay attention to the big message at all. There was a minority who wanted this. Consequently, it is the view of the majority, even in the Supreme Court — the majority drawing the body — to ignore the big picture. It's not a legal source. They are aware of it, because it has been invoked in the procedure, but they have just said that they cannot emphasize it. How will the Council comment on, for example: Case-law of the Forest Court, which itself belonged to the minority, considers this to be tossing blues in the eyes of the users?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1827	I have great respect for the judiciary and, in particular, the Supreme Court. There are demanding issues that have been raised by the Court of Justice, and I note that the Court has also discussed the importance of the notification in relation to matters which have taken place before this notification was submitted. We await the evaluation from the Department of Foreign Affairs. They have been asked to clarify their practices and it is difficult at this stage to conclude on these issues. We must come back to this when this evaluation is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1834	Now the representative Tetzschner's point was that the Supreme Court judges underlined that they have not used the message of children on a fugitive basis as a source of justice. But let me take the big message about children on the run and how to now give very different signals. On page 56, the following is added: ‘Immigration regulatory considerations can be of crucial importance, including in matters relating to children. At some point, however, consideration for the best interests of the child will have to be given to other considerations.» The time at which the best interests of the child should take precedence over other considerations has never been clarified. This contradicts what the Council of State said in its statement. Because here the message says that at some point you will be able to let the consideration of children go ahead. There is a significant deficiency that the administration today does not know when it is. Can the Council of State clarify for me and for the Foreign Administration at what time the best interests of children should take precedence over other considerations?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1846	It is precisely this point that has been given great attention in the communication, and the different considerations to be balanced against each other. It is a discretionary exercise that must take place and it is a discretionary exercise in individual cases that the foreign authorities must carry out. No matter how we turn around and turn around on this, it was, as I understand it, never in the government that the Christian People's Party itself belonged to, a matter area where we said that in the end we have individual matters that are so difficult that we allow the asylum seeker to decide for himself. It would have to be such that these considerations are weighed and decided in concrete terms on a case-by-case basis in the light of the facts available.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1853	I don't know if it's possible to get the Council of State to do anything but observe and notice, but we actually have Supreme Court rulings that date after this big message was submitted. And the way I read those judgments, it starts to get closer to misleading the Storting when you make such a message and see that it doesn't affect practice, and that it's not used as a legal source when you're going to make the final conclusions. The question is whether the Council of State can stand for what she has said in this Chamber that this should lead to change, when none of the courts we have to implement the changes, say that it actually leads to change, and when our highest body, namely the Supreme Court, says that this does not affect the judgment they have, and we have two judges who both lead to people being thrown out of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1858	These were issues that were discussed in depth in the Supreme Court, and a majority decision was taken against a minority. I do not go into either how they discussed the actual matter or the question of retroactive force. We have asked the foreign authorities to clarify their practice, and the cases that have been decided indicate that in specific individual cases there are also families who have had their cases converted in relation to the original decision that was taken. This includes both residence time in Norway and other elements of that evaluation. The best interests of children are also an essential consideration that has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1863	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1866	There is broad political agreement on asylum and immigration policy in Norway. This is also reflected in the Committee's consideration. This does not mean, however, that this issue is not debated in public – an example of which is the debate on long-term children of asylum. The exposure of these children has been linked to the life situation of the children and the fact that some of them do not know any country other than Norway. The requirement that the best interests of children should be assessed and strongly counted in the decision is correct. There shall be an individual assessment of each applicant. However, the ‘best of children’ criterion cannot override all other assessments. Children are part of a family and overall assessments must be made. The children have come together with their parents or are born in Norway, as appropriate, by parents who have been refused their asylum application. Thus, the case of children cannot be treated as if the children did not belong to a family. The government has taken the asylum children's case very seriously. The matter has been thoroughly addressed in the Children's paper on refugees. Steps have been taken to speed up the process. Individual treatment is conducted where the best weights of children are heavy, but where the overall weight is also assessed. We have a proper handling of these matters in Norway. It gives – along with following Norwegian and international laws – a policy that is predictable and fair in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1883	I had prepared a three-minute post, where I was to present the SV's asylum policy, based on what was adopted at our national meeting, what was in the programme and on opinions. It would have come up with what we all know, that there are three parties on the Storing that want a change in a more liberal direction. We know that the Progress Party is probably going to have a little bit of a change in the opposite direction. As I tried to find out in my report, this debate then points to the degrees that this is an important debate at the wrong time. No matter what we may think and have voted into the Stortinget, we have received a big message, and it is under evaluation. The result of that evaluation will be in one month. There are different signs of what happens in practice when it comes to how the message works. I notice that this from the Left and the Christian People's Party is being very focused on two Supreme Court rulings. One could go to Oslo District Court and look at Nathan's judgment and how the big message was used there. We have also received information from UNSjudge that shows that they are using the message, and UDI has said that they are using the message in their assessment. Then we all deserve to wait until 14 June to resume the debate. What we get here today is to confuse all of them outside this hall, which is very concerned about this question in different ways. Let's wait until June 14th, but in the meantime let's keep an eye on what's happening out there for different decisions, and then we meet for a good debate, based on new facts. Now we have a debate based on more sedentary single events and perceptions that we had, and we took it to heart when we debated this big message before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1892	When confusion is created in this matter, it's because the government creates confusion, and that's exactly why it's important to take this debate. We are asked if we can wait until 14 June. No, then this Size is done. There will be no handling of this matter, and that means that the situation of the children living here now is being pushed out over the summer. I can only refer to Trine Skei Grande, who quoted Knut Storberget: It is «a sea of time» in a child's life. It must be unreal and quite uncomfortable for SV when one of the parties here, as I know they experience standing far away in these matters, not only stands with them in the comments, but also warmly welcome them here in the hall. The reason why the Christian People's Party and the Left have a lot about this now is that we need a change in children's lives now. We've got a very strange discussion about this. What I think this is about is whether or not the best interests of the child should be a fundamental consideration – when this is implemented in the Foreign Affairs Act – or not. The Norwegian Centre for Human Rights shows, in its consultation exercise to Children, that Article 3 states that, on all occasions involving children, the best interests of the child shall be a fundamental consideration or a primary consideration, as stated in the official English version. It must mean that the best interests of the child must be given weight, as opposed to weight. The wording also says something about the weight to be taken into account. The best interests of children are not just one of several considerations, but must be the primary consideration. I understand that, as a general rule, primary consideration should be given to other considerations and that exemptions must be justified separately. In order to ensure that we are given an emphasis for different reasons and that this is done in accordance with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, it is necessary that the elements included in the assessment are set out in the individual decisions. If the best interests of children are not realised in the balance against other reasons, the Christian People's Party believes that there must be at least justification, and that it must be made clear in the decision. This is what we believe we need in place to ensure the legal certainty of the perhaps most vulnerable children in the country – the asylum-seekers. It is incomprehensible to me that this is not in place, and I agree with the rapporteur, Aksel Hagen, that it is sad that further confusion is now being created. But it is – with respect to reporting – the government that is contributing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1913	I very much agree with what Dagrun Eriksen said in his article. The representative Eriksen had a very precise summary of the challenges in relation to this. I'm just going to make a few brief comments. First, it's possible that it's me, but I really didn't understand any of the answer the Minister of Justice gave to my question. I think I had a pretty precise question. I also believe that there was a rather serious question, because it is about whether the government has led the Storing behind the light in its handling of this message in terms of its legal effect – and I referred to a Supreme Court judgment. I think you have to have proper and precise answers to that. If you don't have to ask to get back to it. But it is possible that I was not able to draw any conclusion to the answer that was given to me. A well-known Norwegian poet once said that you should never live in the long term with someone you love. These children have really lived in the long term. These children live under the uncertainty that every night they think that tonight the police can come. And then there's someone who thinks we're too fast in turn! Then there are some who sincerely hope that they will lose a choice so that they can owe someone else from now on. This is one of the issues in which the humanity of Norway is to be shown. I would like to have asked myself that someone thinks that we have too little time. We have spent too much time on this matter. We've spent too much time finding a solution to it. And with the asylum policy we still have, we have even more children who end up in this problem. The left considers it important to implement the decisions taken. It's important to send out people to be sent out. It is important to ensure better voluntary return agreements. We've put off almost 100 million. kr for this purpose, voluntary return and forced return, in our alternative state budget so that we do not continue this problem. But we have to deal with the people who are here. These are children, children who can wake up by the police every night – and some people think that we shouldn't care about those networks because we're going to wait until June.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1926	I agree with the rapporteur that this is an important debate, but I also agree with the rapporteur that it may be at some point in time. The SV and the Advance Party may agree on the case in this case, but not in full agreement on the matter itself. But what most people, not to say everyone, agree about, I think, is that we should have the shortest possible process time. And if the trial period had been several times shorter than it is today, it is not certain that we had had this matter at all. The representative, Eriksen, said that parents choose to stay in Norway. Yes, they choose to stay in Norway despite the fact that it has been assessed that it is safe to return. What about adults without babies who think it is better in Norway than in their home country? Will they too stay, only they break Norwegian law long enough? Because that is the reality: if you break the law long enough, you will be allowed to stay in Norway. Or are we going to give the children a stay and send out the parents again, without the possibility of family reunification? So the question is, what's really the best of children? Is it best for children to live in Norway, or is it best for children to live in their parents' home country, where they have other families and a culture similar to that of their parents? Many families, both with and without kids, are constantly moving around the world, and many young people meet new countries and new cultures without harming this. I do not believe that the so-called asylum children will be harmed by returning to their parents' homeland.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1937	My post is going to be characterized by a little bit of ambivalence. On the one hand, I must have a reference to the representative Dagrun Eriksen, who reminds us that exaggerations do not enrich the foreign debate. This is not a question of legal certainty, because if we base ourselves on the recent Supreme Court rulings, Norway’s Supreme Court has thus benefited from the treatment of children by Norwegian administrative authorities on refugees, as the rules have now been, and are, against the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is therefore possible to take a different view of the position of a liberal asylum policy in Norway, without saying that there is no legal certainty under the existing provisions. So I believe that the representative, Skei Grande, is in a significant position, because one can ask the political leadership in Norway, who also disposes of the majority of the population: if you want a change, you can either adopt a regulation at government level, or you can use the majority you have in the Chamber to change the law. Instead, one chooses to promote a message that the Supreme Court has just set aside as the legal source of some particular value. It is this shadowy game that I think should interest the public – that one later on as if one were to act on something that is a liberalisation, for reasons of the good mood of the SVs and others in the coalition, while in reality one is very satisfied with the status quo. Then I have to say that even though my party supports the government when it openly says that we already have a reasonable legal certainty in dealing with these questions, there is something little trusting, almost on the edge of the dishonest, by operating with that kind of shadow game. That's one of the reasons why people may not think that politics is a fantastic industry. I think you should be so honest to say that it's the status quo you're after, that's the one you're defending, that's the Supreme Court has also established that you can maintain, without coming into conflict with the Children's Convention, which also allows individual countries to have a margin of discretion for which policy you want to pursue. What's so bad is that we spend a lot of time on what's symbol politics. Message is not good If you want to make changes, you should use the law, if you're in the law, and if you want to change the law, you can come to the Stortinge and propose the changes you want.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1950	It is still impossible for me to understand that it is actually both wise and tactical – after a staging message has worked in about ten months and there is once again well one month until it has been carefully evaluated — and it is appropriate to take this debate in the Chamber today, if the point is to give the case positive attention to all those out there waiting anxiously for that evaluation, and who are very concerned that practice in this area should be adjusted in line with the large number, including the Right, adopted here before Christmas. I understand – for all things, I am a politician – that it does good for the Christian People's Party and the Left to be able to tease SV, among others. in order to be praised by the Party of Advancement, a party which we have designated as the main political opponent, while the Christian People's Party has held a national meeting and appointed them as a government partner. But, as I said, I recommend that we now close the debate. We await the evaluation. It cannot be uninterested that this evaluation will take place on 14 June. After all, we have an election campaign to take place. What is contained in that evaluation is important to all of us for what kind of vision we are going to have in the future in the field of asylum policy. There we are helped to assess the extent to which the roll-out message has been an instrument. SV has always said that we believe – and we still do – that it is an instrument to take us in the right direction. It is probably not a strong enough instrument to put in place the ideal asylum policy we want. But we are awaiting the evaluation in order to be able to conduct that debate in a more qualified way. As I said, the debate here today shows that I think most parties have a good idea of getting the evaluation and basing it on, so that we can take the debate a little further than what we had just before Christmas.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1961	The representative Dagrun Eriksen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1964	That's why I have to be healthy. To Michael Tetzschner, I would like to say that that was the reason – and the balance, how to balance these considerations against each other, and which should be stated in the decision – which made me refer to the need for legal certainty. This was not linked to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It's strange for me to see that less than a year after we got a big message that would clarify the case-law against these children, we need an evaluation. What you really should have admitted was that you've messed it up by the government. I believe that all of us on the non-socialist side can agree. The reason we've taken this up has not been to irritate SV. It has been because we have seen judges who have kicked the ball back to the legislator and who are asking for clearer advice. This was an opportunity to give more clear advice on this side of the grand total session and before we split up. That chance did not use the government, it has been used to make it more unclear.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1975	The last part of this debate has been very interesting. Let me start by commending the representative Michael Tetzschner, who had a very clarifying post. He's absolutely right that what's going on is a shadow game. But the shadow game is on all sides. I would nevertheless like to thank the representative Michael Tetzschner for making it quite clear what kind of policy will be pursued on the civil side. Let me also thank the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen. Together, the Right Party and the Progressive Party have stated the kind of policy to be pursued if it becomes a bourgeois majority. Interestingly, the representative Eriksen – and Left – are so tall and dark. The reality is that their policy is parked and punctured by one post from the representative Michael Tetzschner. That is the policy that will be pursued in the country if it becomes a bourgeois government. I had actually expected some respect for the matter when these two representatives held high and dark speeches. Reality is that there is a narrow and very strict asylum policy in the Norwegian economy and otherwise there is a dwindling majority. Then I expected the Left and Christian People's Party to actually seek support, cooperation and alliance with those who have the same policy, namely SV. Everyone knows where SV stands and what our heart beats for. Everyone knows where SV is, and everyone knows about our commitment. SV, the Left and Christian People's Party agree – and those who want a more stringent asylum policy. So it's very interesting that the same Christian People's Party and the Left – who in this case are tall and dark – governs in Oslo, the largest city in the country, and there in a similar case wants a very strict policy towards Roma people standing in our streets and asking for respect. There comes real politics: the Left and Christian People's Party sit together with the Right and direct the city and run a tough policy towards fellow people who are in a similar situation and who are asking for heartwarming in our country and in our cities. It's real politics, it's how the country and cities are governed. We from SV promise that our commitment to asylum-seeking children and others seeking a safe port – people seeking help and warmth of heart in our country and our cities – will continue. We're looking for alliances with anyone who might be interested in building alliances.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e1988	I note that it was not possible this time either to get a clear answer to what the Christian People's Party and the Left really mean, and what their proposals will mean in practice. Does that mean that the three-year rule applies? If it's not going to apply, what does that really mean? What is the so-called tipping point of something? Dagrun Eriksen says that the reason for not getting clear answers is that it is not Christian People's Party's responsibility to give «clear answers». Then we have a different perception of what it means to be a responsible opposition. Now I quoted correctly what I wrote myself, so we can compare that with Stortinget's reports at a later stage. Dagrun Eriksen said that it was not the Christian People's Party's responsibility to give «clear answers», it was the government that had as its responsibility. So Dagrun Eriksen says that the message "Children on refugees" has not resulted in a change of practice from UNE. Can Dagrun Eriksen document that claim? None of us can answer that question here and now, until we get the review where UNE itself has reviewed the issues that have been dealt with after the child-breeding announcement was dealt with here in the hall. So Dagrun Eriksen says, "We need a change in children's lives now." What change is the Christian People's Party guaranteeing, and to what children? We haven't been able to get a clear answer here. But what we know from the previous debate on this topic in this Chamber was that a point was made that in municipalities where the Christian People's Party is part of the majority, one was not very willing to accept and settle people who have been granted asylum and refugee status in Norway because there was a question of too little money from the government. Step Skei Grande says that the undersigned is “given above” that the Left and Christian People’s Party does not give up. No, I'm not at all stated above. It's just an explanation from the Left that neither the Left this time is able to say what the proposals of the Left and Christian People's Party will lead to in practice. Which children are going to be, and which are not going to be? The reason why it is so difficult to answer is that neither the Left and the Christian People's Party escapes the fact that here each case is to be dealt with individually, and there is a room for understanding in the legislation. So one thing is to disagree and want to liberalize the law, that's an honest thing. But that's not what's being argued about here. It is argued that the government is terribly unclear. Finally, Trine Skei Grande uses strong words here. She says that the Council of State is misleading the Storing and is leading "The Greatness Behind the Light". These are strong words, which at least I've been trained not to snangle around in time and in time without documentation and standing up for those claims. If not, it'll just be words.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2004	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has had the word twice as early as possible and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2007	To the end, I would say that claim has come from the Supreme Court. I was just trying to give the council the opportunity to respond. She wouldn't do that. At least it wasn't possible for me to understand what she said, but I'm open that I'm the one who's stupid. It's possible that you can't quite understand this. As for the position of the Left and Christian People's Party on asylum children, I think Lise Christoffersen is the only one who has not understood what the Left and Christian People's Party stands for, and now I have given up trying to explain it. So to the second: Akhtar Chaudhry thinks it's unfinded by the Left to point out that SV and the Progress Party here stand together. Yes, we have been in government, and then we increased our cooperation with SV. Twice we made a change that led to the becoming of an asylum child – the civil government along with SV. I would like to cooperate with SV on policies that I agree with them, but I would like to have asked myself not to say what we believe because SV is in government. We stand for what we mean – anyway. In a bourgeois government we managed to get that cooperation, but they have given up when they stand with the Progress Party in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2014	The proposers of the Left and Christian People's Party believe that in their plenary rulings on long-term children the message does not say anything clearly about strict practice, and that the ball is kicked back to the legislator, and questions have been asked whether it has now been established that 'there has not been, or will be, a change in practice in line with the wishes of the majority of the population'. Then I would like to point out that the Supreme Court has used the Storing Notice as a legal source in its handling of the cases and has given this emphasis. Supreme Court is perceived, for example: the distinction between active families and passively resisting return to their home country as guidelines for future management practices. I would also like to point out – as I had so far been involved in my post and in the reply box earlier – that the specific cases dealt with by Højesterett concerned decisions taken by UNE before the notification was submitted. Therefore, the importance of the notification was not then, in its time, affected by the decision of the UNE. Judgments do not imply that other children cannot be given a residence. This is determined, as we know, in concrete terms in the individual cases. The rhetoric about what it means to be ‘a fundamental consideration’ versus being ‘the fundamental consideration’, I should not go into, but it must be clear that we are fulfilling our international obligations, and how so-called immigration-regulating considerations can end up being rejected in individual cases where fundamental consideration has been given to the best interests of children as well. This is a concrete reflection that needs to be made in individual cases, and where the consideration of the best interests of children in individual cases can provide a basis for stay, even if there have been isolated other important considerations that would have been rejected, if this had only been about adults.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2025	The representative Lise Christoffersen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2028	When Trine Skei Grande says that it only has to be signed that doesn't understand what the Christian People's Party and the Left will, I'm going to undertake quite quickly to make a long list of people who share my view that this is relatively incomprehensible. I tried in a debate after we had had the message for treatment here in Stortinget, saying that the Left wants all children who have had a stay in Norway for three years to stay. Then Trine Skei became angry and said I was lying about Left's policy. When I asked what was left's policy, I got no answer – and I didn't get it here today either. According to Dagrun Eriksen, the evaluation is a defeat. No, it was provided in the message and when we dealt with the message, that we should go through this properly. The national assembly of the Labour Party has said that, after the presentation, we will assess whether practices are best suited to the child’s purpose, and whether an adjustment to the legislation is necessary to ensure this. Then we have the knowledge to base our decisions on.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2037	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2051	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to three lines with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2060	The size now addresses a right-wing proposal asking the government to facilitate immediately the analysis of DNA in criminal cases by several accredited actors, with a view to achieving increased legal certainty and quality in justice. The majority, consisting of the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre Party, recommend that the proposal be rejected. I take the view that the majority itself is going to promote the reasons for its proposal not to endorse the proposal for a representative. The minority, consisting of the Advance Party and the Right – i.e. the opposition parties in the Judicial Committee – are promoting proposals in line with the conclusion of the Right Representative proposal. This is also a proposal on which the Progress Party and the Right have agreed for several years, and I think this is probably a good example of a case in which the opposition gathers on good proposals. But based on today's attitude from the committee, we'll probably have to wait for a new big number to make sense. The basic question for me is, why should the public have monopoly on DNA analysis? The background to the minority proposal is the desire to ensure better legal certainty and quality in the investigation. It makes sense for an alternative environment to be established in Norway in this analysis. The importance of power-sharing in this type of analysis is also in favour of the proposal promoted by the Right-wing Representative's proposal. It is important – as I see it, and also the proposers – to be able to have more players that can analyze DNA. This will ensure faster treatment, increased resource use and improved development of methods and controls. It must be an objective to get the most out of the money allocated from the State budget for different public purposes. Competition has also shown that in all areas where this has been introduced, there are greater opportunities for comparison and more transparency in the use of public money. Competition promotes increased efficiency, and that is, after all – I note it – a broad consensus in the UK on competition in a number of areas, because there is no government that has proposed to abolish competition in large areas of society where competition has been introduced. In addition, DNA analysis in this area is a significant residue, and the fact that such analyses take a disproportionately long time weakens the progress of important criminal cases. This is a very important point in view of the proposal that has been put forward. Last year the NRC conducted a survey among a number of police districts and asked whether the police were satisfied with the time it took to get answers to these analyses, and whether the waiting time as of the day was acceptable. ‘We believe that it takes much too long — both in serious and less serious cases’ — was the message from one district. ‘ Answers take too long and cause unnecessary proceedings with the police’, says one head of another police district. A number of aid lawyers and defenders contacted the NRK at that time, saying that the waiting time for bioassay results was still a bottleneck in assault cases. The government claims – and will probably say later in the debate – that the state of things is relatively good, everything has become so much better. But those of us who travel out a little bit and get feedback from those who actually depend on this system, probably don't realize that the government's description of reality is correct. At least it's not perceived as a reality description out there. There are still significant residues in this system. Nevertheless, I note that the Red-Green Government and its parties want to vote against the proposal. In another area of queue, the socialists give priority to the system rather than to the sensible. I'm not surprised by that in that way. I'll take up the minority proposal in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2086	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2089	It is an important theme for proposers to address. We need to have a well-functioning DNA reform with a good system of analysis. It is important both for effective investigation, for the resolution of crimes and for legal certainty. I have tried to look at how this debate has been on Stortinget over the years. Only since 2006 have I seen that the representative Oktay Dahl from the Right raised the matter 14 times in different forms: in representative proposals, in interpellations and in written questions. In addition, the matter has been raised many times as an important point in the discussion of the State budget. It is commendable to stand on and pursue a cause as far as it goes. I have tried to look at the arguments that have come up in these different phases, from 2006, when – as I have seen – the matter began to come up. What's striking is that the discussion is very stuck both ways. It's the same type of arguments and the same production we see in the setting after setting. I want to use the opportunity to warn a little bit against dogmatism in both directions. I believe that we have the right lead to deal with this, not in the future should be dogmatic and think that it is an absolute principle that this should only be done by the public. On the other hand, I believe that those who have been running this in the Storting for a long time, with the same kind of argument, should not be dogmatic either, and believe that it must certainly be private that is going into this sector, that there is absolutely such an element that it depends on. One should reflect on the fact that in countries where one identifies itself with the political parties that govern, such as Sweden and Denmark, one has a public institute with the same main model as in Norway. It would also be affordable if you noticed more and put more emphasis on the improvements made in the processing of DNA analyses in Norway, and that here in Stortinget, we tried to go into the work done to meet our wishes, which I believe is a common concern – to make this work the best possible for both the police, victims and anyone who needs legal certainty related to the DNA analyses. Following the merger of the Institute of Public Health and the Institute of Forensics, extensive changes, improvements and investments have been made in this work. The notifications are that there is a decrease in the number of cases and the time taken to deal with them, for example. have done what has been requested for a long time, and have received an international accreditation, as it says, in accordance with standard ISO 17025 for track surveys, and have now been submitted with the requirements of international standards. We should also take seriously, and I'm counting on all the environments in Stortinget want us not to talk about the changes and improvements that are taking place down, but encourage and talk them up and notice positive changes. You can't just keep on saying that this can only be solved by getting in private alternatives. I hope we can follow this discussion further, but we should also try to get out of the trenches – even those who believe in private are the only possible solution. It is true today that for a second opinion, the judiciary can use institutions abroad that have a similar level of competence, capacity and experience to Norwegian forensic environments. You're not just dependent on bringing a private actor into the system here in the country. Second opinion studies may be carried out where necessary for the judiciary. I'm glad we're following up this question. At the same time, I am calling for an innovation in the argument and the basis for constantly returning to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2108	I began to feel awfully old when I heard that I have brought this up 14 times. It is good that representatives of Bohemia have time to get an overview of what the opposition is proposing of good things. Then I can comfort the representative, Bohemia, that this is probably the last time he has the opportunity to debate something that I have mentioned in this Chamber. There may have to be other situations later when you might have to come back to this room. At least it can be some kind of comfort. In the case of trenches: there is no target for the Right that it is private to do this. The right is that we should have a system of maximum legal certainty that helps victims of crime of all, most of all – not least victims of rape. It is then that the most important thing is to get actors to analyse as quickly as possible in a legally secure way and in a quality assurance manner. That's our goal. If that's the way the Institute of Public Health is, it's very good, it's very strange that you don't have more transparency about whether the results have a statistic – which formerly Director Ballo of the RMI took the initiative, but he ended after nine months because he met the wall in meeting with the former institute. It's nice that you don't have openness about it. The way to get transparency and quality is to actually get competition. We don't want competition for competition's own sake, but because you get proof of FHI is as good as you've said for six to seven years that they are. If they are, let them be analyzed, and everyone can be satisfied – even right. We have debated this very many times, and I must say it is strange that you are so concerned about quality when what you have had as a monopoly, only recently was accredited. When you name the country that we're going to compare with, it's worth noting that, for example. Germany, in the various Länder, has a good system for this, and Switzerland has it. England has even visited the Vice-Chairman of the Committee. I didn't feel that there were so many critical questions about the success rate you had there. You have better results in England, and the reason is that those who order a service can demand what they want, and if you are not satisfied with the progress and quality of what comes, you can send to others. That's all we're actually asking for. I'm going to be short, I'm not going to use five minutes once, because, as I said, the arguments are the same. But I want to ask a very specific question to the representative Jan Bøhler about what he concluded with. He gave the impression that there is nothing in the way that the department, if it wants to, can send this on a tender, for example. private abroad. That's the impression that was created here. Then the question is: does it mean that the representative Jan Bøhler does not see the need to change the prosecution instructions in order to implement it? Then it should actually be a narrow matter to open up to it in periods where there may be queues of leftovers, when you don't have the principal counter-representations that are obviously crucial to not choosing to do so. I just want to be clear if you think it's necessary, or if that's not necessary, to change the prosecution instructions to do this. If there's a full opening, if there's no basis for Kripos to ask for something, you can only start it up, because now the representative Jan Bøhler has made it clear that there is no formal regulation to prevent it from doing what the individual department might seem reasonable to get the fastest possible results.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2121	Ensuring evidence, and not least its proper treatment, is important in order to ensure the legal certainty of citizens, especially in matters of morality and murder. There are too many who are being subjected to brutal abuse, who get to turn their lives upside down, and who are being affected by this for the rest of their lives. It's unsustainable. Violence is an example of the most serious abuses that some may be subjected to. The damage can be both physical and mental, and we know that rape victims often have long-lasting aftereffects. Assaults are terrifying, and although it is easy to focus on assaults, rapes committed at parties, at home or in other contexts, often by a known perpetrator, constitute the largest number. It has been estimated that between 8 000 and 16 000 rapes are committed in Norway every year, and we know that the darkness figures are large. According to the SSB, 874 persons were reported for sexual intercourse with children, 1,075 for rape and 138 for attempted rape in 2011. The total number of sexual offences reported in 2011 was 7 pst. higher than in 2010. Since the mid-1990s, there has been a steady increase in the number of reported rapes. I interpret it in such a way that several people are dry and want to report it, and that is good, but unfortunately there are very few who get convicted. The point is not to judge as much as possible, but to punish those who have committed such crimes. We can't live with the fact that there's a small percentage of those who are reported for rape, who are judged. This is a legal security problem, and it is a major challenge for the public to trust the police and the judiciary. Persons who are subject to rape must dryly report it. Persons who have committed a rape or other offence must be judged. The strict requirements of the criminal justice system for evidence make it essential in the case of rape to ensure technical traceability. Rapid questioning of possible witnesses is also very important to ensure that significant details are not forgotten. That's why DNA analysis is also very important. This is clearly a public task that requires strict regulation and supervision, but it does not necessarily mean a public monopoly. The Christian People's Party is committed to strengthening the competence and capacity of the public forensic environment, but in a situation where there is a need for increased capacity, it will be in the interests of society to release other actors to the necessary public governance and supervision. We know that a quick attack on the perpetrator of rape cases seems deterrent. That's why society has to make every effort to make it happen. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal in the vote by the Right and the Progressive Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2134	Initially, I want to make it clear that the government is concerned with the proper handling and examination of evidence collected by the police, whether it is done by the police themselves or by experts outside the police. It is also important that all stages of the evidence assurance chain contribute to rapid processing and quality. It is probably not in any other field of forensics, as far as the field of forensics is concerned, there has recently been more attention and attention than in the context of the DNA reform. Significant efforts have been made to improve the security of biological traces at the site, to build up DNA records and to invest a lot in analytical capacity at the Public Health Institute under the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The government and a majority of the Storting are of the opinion that legal certainty and quality are best ensured by the type of analysis we are talking about here, carried out under public control and independent of business interests. Treatment and analysis of DNA traces in criminal matters are the handling of evidence and therefore a part of a chain of evidence such as: shall comply with strict legal certainty requirements. I see that the proposers themselves point to the fact that most of the available expertise related to legal psychiatry is private, fragmented and so far without a good enough control code. I don't see that this description is going to be an argument for breaking up the DNA tests in a private market. The government, as known on 25 January of this year, appointed a wide-ranging selection to review the rules of criminal law on inviolability and the use of forensic experts in criminal matters. In addition, internal work is under the direction of the Ministry of Health and Welfare to investigate any proposals for the organisation of judicial psychiatry. So the legal psychiatry is also taken care of. The aim of the merger of the former Forensic Institute and the Public Health Institute of the Ministry of Health and Welfare has been to bring together forensic environments to enhance the quality of forensic services. In the last year, there has been a significant decrease in residues and processing time for DNA issues. According to the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Institute of Public Health carries out measures to further reduce the duration of treatment. The Public Health Institute refers to the work of the Institute, which includes track studies, being accredited to ISO 17025 standard, and the laboratory uses the same recognised and established methods as other equivalent laboratories in the studies. The Institute of Public Health participates in so-called ring-tests which show that the quality of the work is high and in accordance with the requirements of the international standard. The legal genetic engineering community in the Institute of Public Health has thus undergone a major transformation. The added members have demonstrated both the willingness to change and the ability to change in these processes. It is therefore not my impression that there is a lack of changeability in public analysts, as the representatives behind the proposal refer to. Financing of legal genetics has now been collected under the Ministry of Health and Welfare, including the responsibility for grants to the Legal Genetics Centre in Tromsø. In this respect, the Health and Care Committee has asked for an overall, professional and economic assessment of how the work on legal genetic services can be properly organised, as set out in the Annex. Inner. 11 S for 2012–2013. I am confident that the Minister of Health and Health will follow this up. Pending the assessment, the National Institute for Public Health and Legal Genetics Centres are invited to develop cooperation where appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2147	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2150	I registered with satisfaction that Jan Bøhler started his post instead of saying that maybe you should not be so categorical – and that was true in so far as both sides of this case were concerned. I refer to the first page of the vote, where the majority of the parties write the following: ‘The majority do not want this work to be done by commercial operators [[...]] Then I refer you to the letter of reply from the Council of State, where she writes as the reason why you do not want to go along with the proposal for a representative: ‘and therefore does not consider it necessary to have more accredited operators at this stage.’ [[...]] Does this mean that the Council of State is not as categorical in its rejection as the majority parties are in the vote?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2167	It's been a lot of work to ensure good quality and speed in the processing of the DNA samples. The Institute of Public Health has gone a very long way in doing this, and now they provide much better and faster services than before. It is true that we have been concerned about ensuring that these samples are optimal, and therefore we have not seen the right thing to break up and use more actors than necessary. We have also referred to how this is organized in our neighbouring countries. This has been a quality and economic issue – ensuring good organisation of tests and ensuring that we can take responsibility for these tests in an appropriate and good way – and therefore it has not been a dogmatic approach to the question of the use of commercial operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2175	I first want to boast of previous speeches from the Christian People's Party, which hit the nail on my head, because this is really about individuals, not protecting big, public systems. But my question to the Council of State is whether she can explain the fundamental difference between the fact that they say no to use private actors in analysing DNA in criminal matters, but it seems quite good to buy private services for analysis in asylum matters. There's a question of life and death for the people it's about, while DNA analysis in criminal matters is about finding out who's been at a crime scene, or who hasn't been there. UDI submitted a bid for Doffin in February. The question then is, are the principles different, depending on whether there are asylum cases, or whether there are criminal cases?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2184	I have not seen that private operators in this situation could help improve the quality of the samples to be analysed and tested. It has been right in the situation to focus on what we can do to ensure that the Public Health Institute could improve its results, deliver the results of its tests faster. It has not been a dogmatic question as to whether private operators should be used. As I said, a great deal of work has been done to ensure the best possible result of the investments made by Stortinget in the major DNA reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2189	I record that the Council of State does not respond to the question of the difference in asylum and criminal matters, but now I have to be very clear. Since asylum issues are not dogmatic – this is a yes/no issue – is the Council of State basically in favour of or against using them in criminal proceedings as well? Or is it also just a pragmatic question, in the same way as in asylum matters?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2194	I do not think I should be allowed to press into the yes/no form of the representative Oktay Dahl. But when implementing such a major reform as the DNA reform was, it was important to have an approach to what gives the best results. That's why we've focused on the Institute of Public Health and on the need we had to get better results than we had a few years ago. And I'm glad to say that now the institute is doing well. They also participate in international cooperation, so-called ring-tests, which means that they are regularly tested against what is achieved internationally. By applying the ISO standard, we ensure a quality in these tests that is crucial to ensuring good criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2201	Replicate cord shift complete.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2204	I'm just going to clear up a manifest misunderstanding. I talked in my post about the legal system, that I think there have been examples of getting a second opinion in court in relation to DNA tests. I was not talking about a general use of private institutions in the investigation and by the police – just for clarifying it, which was a question from the representative Oktay Dahl.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2209	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2223	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and will be allocated up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to three lines with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2232	We have to treat Prop. 71 L, amendments to the Criminal Procedures Act, etc., relating to the introduction of electronic controls such as protective surrogate, or so-called ‘footlink zone’. And so this is a change in Section 188 of the Criminal Procedure Act, where there are already some specific rules on custody surrogates. The government is justifying the introduction of electronic compensation as a caretaker's surrogate that there is a known case that there are too few detention centres and difficult to pick up custody sites. Norway has also been criticised by international bodies for the extensive use of care, and the government in particular justifies the proposal that the caregiver should continue to be able to maintain a job, family life and social cohesion under the care. Paragraphs 171 and 172 of the Criminal Procedures Act contain clear conditions for the courts to give a judgment on custody imprisonment. This will include cases where the targeted person tries to avoid persecution, loss of evidence, the influence of witnesses, the removal of tracks and the prevention of new criminal offences. These are relatively strict rules, whereby the prosecution authorities have a significant burden of proof in order to ensure that the person to whom it is addressed will act in such a way that he has to be held in custody – see. the conditions that I just mentioned. The police cannot use electronic control within the 48 hours that they have the opportunity to keep the person in charge without bringing the case before the court, as I understand the bill. The case will then apply to cases of longer custody, which is largely a matter of very serious crime, otherwise there will be no reason to keep abreast of it. So this is going to be about hard-boiled criminals, foreign criminals trying to avoid criminal prosecution, violent perpetrators, etc., and so it's these that the government parties are now going to have to foot out among the people most. To have faith that these should stay in certain places, do not affect witnesses, go to work, etc. I think is a relatively special sense of reality. Here, after this system has been introduced, we will obviously encounter many unpleasant surprises. If only those who are under investigation for minor matters, who are going under the scheme, I think it is relatively doubtful whether the courts would grant permission for custody in such cases, at least through long-term custody. I would also like to refer to what I see as the main reason for the government's proposal. On page 4 of the setting: ‘The order facilitates the maintenance of jurisdictional social relations with society during the settlement, because jurisdictions will be able to maintain work, school or other activation during the execution of the sentence. Prisons may lead to major pressures on the individual sentence, including loss of family contact, loss of employment, loss of schooling and loss of normal social status.’ This is then in the case of foot-link zone in general, and is also an argument that the government parties use within this with care. If it is to be able to release a significant number of prison places under this scheme, it means that the scheme must be used to a large extent, and then the question is whether society is served by people who should actually be held in custody. It is also worth noting that the Advocate General has spoken negatively about this scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2256	Today, we are dealing with two legislative proposals – one in which the government proposes to introduce electronic control as a precautionary measure, and two minor adjustments to the conditions for the use of electronic control in criminal proceedings. As early as 2006, the government had consulted on a proposal to introduce electronic control as a precautionary measure. At that time, the government abandoned the proposal, both on the basis of consultation opinions and that there was no experience of electronic control as a system. The government introduced electronic control as an alternative form of settlement in 2008. The scheme, also called foot-link soning, started as a pilot project to gain experience in this new form of reconciliation. The scheme has been gradually expanded and now comprises eleven counties with a total of 220 places. Now, in May, the scheme is being extended to a further state, namely Northern Ireland. The evaluation of electronic control shows, inter alia: that relapses to new crime after an end of settlement are low. One of the reasons for this is that the convicted person can maintain work, school or other activation during the settlement. Maintaining family relationships is also important. This we know makes life easier to resume after settlement, and the likelihood of a relapse to new crime is reduced. This is how electronic control has become a punishment that works, and is fully in line with the big message with the same name, namely the penalty that works. It also works well in the selection of technological solutions. These experiences have provided the basis for testing electronic control as a protective surrogate. Norway has relatively high figures for the use of custody prisons. Norway has been repeatedly criticised by various international and regional agencies for the widespread use of custody prisons. There is therefore reason to consider whether the purpose of an attack or detention can be achieved by surrogates that are less invasive than prison. The proposal for electronic control as a precautionary measure may contribute to the reduction of the use of custody prisons and thus comply with our international Convention obligations. There is also reason to believe that it will release prison grounds for other purposes. The basic prerequisites for the Workers' Party to agree to electronic compensation as a caretaker's surrogate are that the measure is not at the expense of clarifying criminal acts and society's need for protection and security. Very many countries use electronic control in the implementation of penalties. Some of these have also introduced the system as a protective surrogate. These include England, Wales, Austria, the Netherlands and Portugal. The Ministry has assessed that electronic control will be particularly relevant as a precautionary measure in the event of a risk of new criminal offences, and in particular to young offenders. It is difficult to calculate the number of custody prisoners that can be in the target group for electronic control. Experience from Portugal shows that about 20 pst. by all custody prisons are transferred to electronic control. Directly transferred to Norwegian conditions will amount to about 200 persons. The Ministry assumes that the real figure in Norway will be lower and believes that the scheme may be valid for about 50 people at any time. According to the Ministry, the implementation of the care surrogate can be largely coordinated with the already established system of electronic control penalties. The working party believes that the experience and attitudes of electronic control in the implementation of penalties provide a good basis for taking a step forward and testing out electronic control also as a protective surrogate. We therefore support the proposal by the government. We also support the proposal for the adjustment to the conditions for the use of electronic control in criminal proceedings, by replacing the term ‘probation’ with ‘release’ and the clarification that the unconditional prison sentence should not exceed four months.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2286	We have had several debates on the use of modern technologies to solve capacity problems in criminal justice and to contribute to better content in settlement. I think it is important to distinguish between electronic control, EK, related to compensation and EK related to custody, because there are two very different questions. In one case, it is a matter of choosing a form of reconciliation that can ensure that a sentence is returned to society; in the other, it is to provide for custody that is safe for investigation, and that society is to identify who has committed a criminal act. I think it's important to separate the two things very clearly from each other, because the fact that something can prove to work technologically is not the same as an argument that one should do it in a big way when it comes to care. Nor do I believe that this proposition initially opens up, but there is reason to be pending in terms of how many should be covered by this. In the past, we have discussed – with slightly varying intensity – the use of EK related to housing, and the Right has been restrained, but not totally reprehensible, so that EK makes sense as a propitiatory form in some cases, for example. juvenile delinquency. But if we're going to discuss the challenges in criminal care and the need for space, this isn't really the arena to do it on. The situation in criminal custody is that we have too few custody sites. This bill makes it possible to get rid of approx. 50 places, but it'll still be too few. We have too many foreign criminals in Norwegian prisons that we can't get back to the country they're from, because. various matters — not least the length of the procedure, their shortness of judgment. We have a lack of consistency between the objectives and the values that we all agreed on when we dealt with St.meld. No 37 for 2007–08, versus the day-to-day experience of staff in criminal services. Therefore, you might want to review the entire St.meld. No 37, so that goals and the world approach each other a little bit more, and so that employees don't feel that they almost fail when they go to work, because they don't get to the job that we've said here that the people in criminal care should do. In addition, it is still the case that we have not been presented with a capacity plan for criminal services in total. There's a lot of adhoc work to do in criminal matters. This is an example of a single measure that I do not think is entirely related to what we actually intended when we dealt with St.meld. No Thirty-seven. The problem of medical coverage in Norwegian prisons contributes to increased pressure on employees, who have to keep track of people with major mental and physical challenges, and they are too few. In addition, there are challenges with Nav, etc. I think we should debate the criminal code in its entirety in a different context than this one. This is about using a technological tool related to something quite different from the content of the ransom. I think it has limited transfer value to talk about the effects of what EK has done on repatriation to society. The right will vote against the vote's proposal for Decision I and for Decision II and Decision III.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2303	Let me first clarify that it is not primarily to avoid building prisons that the government is promoting this proposal. Having said that, there is no doubt that this measure is cheaper than putting people behind locks and punches. This is a safe measure. Remember that there are competent agencies — that is the police, that are the courts — to assess whether the person to be sentenced to such custody is fit to carry a link and not to be imprisoned behind a prison wall. It is also the case that people who are to be judged should have committed less serious crime and not serious crime. This means that they do not sit with those who have actually committed serious crime, and they are therefore excluded from both networking and, where appropriate, training in heavy crime. This action will enable people to keep their study places. This will allow them to be in contact with their workplaces. It will also enable them to keep in touch with their family. Remember, these are people who will have committed less serious crime, not heavy crime. That is the very foundation of the action. Then it is a good idea that these people keep in touch with the workplace, with the school and the studies, and with the family. This will help to reduce the rate of relapse, hopefully. And finally – where I started: it could give more capacity in prisons, so that those who really need to be behind locks and knocks can have room. There is nothing more contrary to people's view of the law than that people who have committed serious crime and who may be a danger to society, a danger to their family, a danger to other people and not least to themselves, do not have a place of custody. This action will help us to make room for these people. Then we'd better go in with a cheap and safe alternative for people who've committed less serious crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2312	From 2005, the red-green government has made a great effort to bring down the cows. When we took over, the cows were long, and something had to be done. The goal was for more dome fields to start sonning faster. It's a big advantage that you don't have a long time to get a sentence to execute. The result of the efforts of former Minister of Justice Storberget was the time that the settlement cows fell significantly, but unfortunately the queues have increased again. There are several different relationships. The police have increased resources and the percentage of information has increased, and there is a relatively large increase in the detention of foreign criminals. Of course, we can't just sit down and see that this happens. New prison sites will be established and will be established. The use of criminal enforcement with electronic control is being extended to an increasing number of countries. The new legislative proposition we are discussing now is that electronic control should also be used as a substitute for custody in prison. As we see it, the presentation is reasonable and well thought out. It will help to mitigate the increase in the need for new prisons, and it could be a good way to keep track of, for example, the need for new prisons. young lawbreakers on. It is obvious that careful consideration is given to the most appropriate care of traditional prison and the use of electronic control as to the purpose of custody imprisonment. One shall avoid the destruction of evidence, one shall avoid its escape, and one shall ensure that new criminal offences are not committed. The action will be applied to suspects that do not present a hazard. Supervision and control must be strict. The way things have been done with electronic control over the last few years has been shown to be good and safe. It provides a good experience background when you are about to open the electronic wallet as a possible protection surrogate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2329	We are currently dealing with a case concerning the introduction of electronic control as a care substitute as well as two minor adjustments in the criminal enforcement law § 16, second paragraph. The Christian People's Party supports the adjustments in the second paragraph of Section 16 of the Penal Enforcement Act, but does not propose the introduction of electronic control as a protective surrogate. The background to the proposal for electronic control, as others have also mentioned, is that it can reduce the use of traditional custody prisons and also release detention centres for other purposes. The Christian People's Party does not support this part of the proposal because the legislative changes that are being made are too unprotected. We fully agree that we must bring down the reconciliation queue, but then the proposal that is being promoted today is not the way to go. It is unsustainable that in cases where there is a risk of evidence corruption, of escape, of new criminal offences, or of a combination of them, there is no room for custody of persons who have allegedly committed serious crimes because of the explosion of capacity. That's not a valid argument, we have to do something about it in other ways. In addition, the use of electronic controls requires extensive supervision. Thus, the argument to bring down the queues by introducing the protective surrogate by electronic control will not resolve the situation in the long term. In addition, the legislative proposal is unclear as to the cases in which it is to be applied. The terms of custody are strict and must take account of both the victim and the investigation of the case. But what is crucial to go against the proposal is that it will weaken the legal certainty of individuals. The terms of the Criminal Procedures Act for the use of custody are, as I said, strict. These include: ensure that evidence is not lost. The use of electronic controls instead of custody cannot be assured of this. The legislative proposal that is being promoted today is therefore somewhat unprotected. The Christian People's Party cannot therefore support the vote's proposal I. In the meantime, we agree that custody can be a great stress for someone, and especially children. We have worked a long time to ensure other forms of reconciliation for children and young people. We therefore believe that the Court's proposal to use electronic control in some cases could be appropriate, especially when the person to whom it refers has not been convicted in the past, intended to be less than 18 years old, and the relationship for which it is intended is less serious, and last but not least, that it cannot be applied in the case of crime against life, body and health. The Christian People’s Party will therefore not support the introduction of electronic control as a substitute for custody.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2348	In the bill, the government is in favour of electronic control as an alternative to custody. The scheme is proposed in Section 188 of the Criminal Procedures Act. Electronic control as an alternative may include, inter alia: reduce the use of traditional custody prisons and release detention centres for other purposes. The scheme is less comprehensive and a useful complement to traditional custody prisons. The use of custody has increased in recent years because we have strengthened the police, the investigation methods have become more effective, the clearance rate is higher, and there is an increase in custody of foreign criminals. Several are also longer in custody. The priority of criminal services is to provide custody facilities in prisons near where the police need space. Sometimes this can be challenging because prisons have high levels of coverage. High coatings are necessary to avoid queues. In recent times, the care situation has been challenging. There have been a high number of arrests throughout the country, while both high-security and low-security prisons have had almost full coverage. Several hearing bodies were sceptical or opposed to the use of electronic control as an alternative to custody when the proposal was being consulted in 2006. This was true of the Riksadvokaten, the state attorneys Agder, Hordaland, Vestfold and Telemark, and the criminal care regions south and north. In particular, the hearing bodies pointed out that the proposal did not serve the purpose of the custody prison. Other hearing bodies such as the Court of Justice, the Norwegian Judicial Association, the Criminal Office of the South-West Region and Legal Advice for Women supported the proposal. As an alternative to custody, the Norwegian Judicial Association considered that the measure would be appropriate in many cases, pointing out that the mildest means of achieving the objective of presumptuously innocent people should always be used. The use of criminal enforcement with electronic control for more than four years has provided good experience in the practical and technical implementation and has created confidence in the system. This positive experience contributes to the renewed promotion of the proposal for the introduction of electronic controls as an alternative to custody. Today, arrest and imprisonment are decided mainly when there is a risk of evidence loss, escape, new criminal offences, or a combination of them. I suppose electronic control will be particularly relevant where the reason for the use of custody is the risk of new criminal offences and, in particular, of young offenders. Very many countries both inside and outside Europe are currently using electronic control as part of criminal justice. Most people use electronic control during the criminal execution, either as an alternative to a shorter prison sentence in its entirety or as custodial measures in the case of longer prison sentences. Electronic control as an alternative to custody is less widespread. England and Wales, Austria, the Netherlands and Portugal are countries in Europe that use electronic control during the pre-trial period. In the United States, this type of use of electronic control is also common. Also for care, both follow-up, control and length of time will vary between countries. While it is difficult to estimate the number of custody prisoners that may be in the target population, the Ministry of Justice and Defence assumes that, at an estimated full capacity, electronic control as an alternative to custody will amount to about 50 seats with an estimated annual operating cost of just over 15 million. kr. The implementation will be established in those countries where the implementation of penalties has already been established by electronic means. The further establishment will follow the possible extension of criminal enforcement with electronic control. Since electronic control as an alternative to custody is not assumed to result in increased use of custody, but is to be a real alternative to imprisonment, the proposal will also, equally, reduce the need for the creation of new prison capacity. Operation of an equivalent number of high-security prisons costs around 40 million. kr per year. However, due to today’s lack of capacity in criminal services, prison sites cannot be closed down. Adoption of the Stortinget proposal, the Ministry aims to ensure that the legislative proposal can enter into force from 1 January 2014. In the proposal, the Government also proposes two minor adjustments to the conditions for the use of electronic control in criminal proceedings, as set out in. the second paragraph of Section 16 of the Penal Enforcement Act. The test has shown the need to replace the term «probation» by «release» and to clarify that the unconditional penalty must not exceed four months.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2382	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2385	In recent years, the average duration of care has been approx. eight to ten weeks. When we know that a large number of people are being held in custody, there are too very serious conditions, and the government parties say that this should only apply to minor matters, that means that this will only apply for one–two weeks, probably. That's why I'm questioning the government's calculation of how many prison places this will release. It also falls on a stone's floor in view of the government party's argument that social life, work and the content of remuneration should be maintained. To what extent have the Council of State ensured the quality of the figures she has now produced?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2391	I understand that many questions relating to the use of electronic control as an alternative to custody can be raised. But with the positive experience we've had over the four years we've had the opportunity to make amends with electronic control, we see that it should also be open to this possibility of care. There's been an estimate of how many places you think the scheme can give, i.e. the estimated 50 places it's talking about, but I think it's going to take some time to see this used to some particular extent. However, an opportunity should be provided to benefit from it where the conditions for other custody can be met.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2396	The terms of the Criminal Procedures Act §§ 171–172 for when the courts can impose custody have been at issue in the debate, and it is in relatively serious circumstances where society has considered it best that the person in charge is under safe custody. Electronic control will mean moving home, family and work place into the care zone. I think that's quite special because here you have to control, among other things. the influence of witnesses, the availability of information by sight, etc. This means that a significant responsibility and possibility of suspicion are also imposed on families and colleagues at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2401	The conditions for custody are strict and the conditions for custody continue to be met if the court finds that electronic control can be used. When the government finds it appropriate to propose opening up the use of electronic controls also in custody, it is due, as I mentioned, to the good results we have from evaluations made of the use of the system. The evaluations show an increased motivation for the convicted person to carry out compensation properly, and it also shows that it has been considered positive in the family that the convicted person is given a zone in this way. But this must be followed very carefully.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2406	I just want to ask a follow-up question related to the number and calculation model that was used. Now the Council of State has said that there are very good results related to reconciliation – it is people who have been found fit to zone and who have had a good effect on it. But then the Council of State says it's probably going to take time before you get any special amount of this. How long does the Council of State think it takes, and what types of crime does the Council of State think they are about? The 50 watchpoints shall be regulated for:
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2411	We are now making provision for electronic control to be used for custody, but it will be up to the court to decide. As with other forms of criminal response, use may vary and may evolve in such a way that the Storting also considers it appropriate to ask questions as to whether the purpose of a reaction has been achieved. I cannot rule out that this will also happen for this option, but with the experience we have from the use of electronic checking for compensation, we have also proposed to open this in the case of care. The purpose of the registered trade mark shall also be fulfilled if the court chooses to make use of it for the purpose of the registered trade mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2416	That's when the queue change ended. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2432	I'm going to be short, because we've dealt with it a little bit more sexy the sister of this law earlier today – related to what's happening on the Internet. This isn't about the Internet, it's about physical, tangible things, like shoes, bells and everything. The proposal contains a number of changes to the laws relating to enforcement in order to ensure that a holder of an exclusive industrial right is also able to protect that exclusive right. It is important for people to be able to take a chance, take initiatives and create new products, without risking losing to people who make copies and copy what they may have spent years after years developing. However, when someone does this — in a not entirely non-profit world — without consent, there is an intervention that can be sanctioned. Many suggest that the extent of piracy in business, etc. has increased significantly. More effective penalties are needed. It is an important premise for this law that this should be done in the context of industrial activities. Acquisitions for private purposes are excluded. This has been widely supported during the consultation process and during the committee procedure, with the same reasons given in the proposal, namely the desire to facilitate the involvement of people in Norway, the commitment to the development of new products, and the need to adapt to the EU framework. The government has gone further on some points – we on the Right are not yet in government, but we agree on this matter – than the EU has done. In total, the Committee feels that in this case and in this proposition, the necessary consideration is given to the care of those who want to create new products, so that they do not risk their entire creation being misused and copied. There is reason to mention that stricter criminal responses are also proposed. The minority has a different proposal, which will be explained. The majority want to gain some experience with the increased possibilities of penalties, even in terms of penalties, as opposed to the minority. We think that makes sense, but the minority can justify their proposal itself. Finally, the Customs Authority reports on the amount of preparations and other copies of things to make it more enjoyable in the home, e.g. I don't have to say anything more about what it is, but there are some products that people make to order, which are imitations of what is preferably the original. We must respect the fact that producers of also the type of products should be able to protect their products from the fact that others are making a serious contribution to the development they have been doing for several years – research, etc. I therefore recommend setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2454	I would first of all like to thank the case rapporteur for his statement. The setting is unanimous at almost all points. The Progress Party is very pleased that we have received these legislative proposals, in order to increase the penalty for those who might break the law by, among other things. importing pirate copies. We know after several years and after having been in contact with, among other things. the customs service, which is doing a great job in this area, that piracy is an increasing problem. This goes beyond those who – as the rapporteur said – have invested in products and in the process of often reaching products and getting them on the market. So we're very happy with these legislative proposals. In one area, there is a minority proposal from the Progress Party – which I would like to mention – relating to ‘in particular aggravating circumstances’. In the second paragraph of Section 57 of the Patent Act, the Government has proposed to increase the penalty from one year to ‘up to three years’ in the event of particularly aggravating circumstances. The Progress Party proposes to increase the sentence to ‘up to six years’. This is after recordings from, for example: The NHO, which points out that this is a penal framework in particularly aggravating circumstances similar to the one it has in, for example. Denmark. We think it's okay that it should be a proper sharpening. So we want to go to the step of proposing what is included in the setting. With this, I will address the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2463	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox Case No. 7, 8 and 9 are interpellations. These three interpellations are largely related to the same theme and are addressed to the same Council of State. With reference to Section 77 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose to derogate from the general procedure for inter-pelling debates by considering these inter-pellations together. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2511	The President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 12 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: First, the three interpellants get a speaking time of up to 10 minutes each. Furthermore, the Minister of Justice and Security will have a speaking time of up to 15 minutes. Then open for up to 15 speakers with a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each. Finally, the three inter-pellants and the Minister for Justice and Security are given one post each of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2524	One of my great political role models is William Wilberforce. He was elected to the British Parliament at the end of the 1700s. At that time he was at the beginning of the 20s – which is otherwise a perfect age for being elected to Parliament. From 1787 there was one thing for which he fought successfully – he fought for human dignity. That's why he fought slavery. He fought the slave trade and slave teams in British colonies. His starting point was that all people have the same value. In his time it was the fight against slavery that occupied him most. The United Kingdom was then a major act, and he was countered and defeated when he proposed the ban in Parliament every year. Much of the background was enough that enormous wealth was linked to just the slave trade. In 1807, Wilberforce was able to win with the first decision, and the slave trade was banned. Three days before William Wilberforce died, he experienced that slavery was abolished for good. In a sense, Norway has quite proud traditions of slavery. Denmark-Norway was the first country in the world to promote a law to ban slave trade. We say that slavery was abolished almost 200 years ago in Europe. Unfortunately, it's not like that. There are today more slaves in the world than the 10-12 million transported with the transatlantic slave trade. According to the international organization Free the Slaves, a total of 27 million people live as slaves today. We can certainly say that this is about huge sums of money. It will be in line with drug and arms trafficking – money that is certainly also used to fight, for example. policy changes that will increase efforts to combat trafficking in human beings. Trafficking in human beings is the slavery of our time. That is why we need to do everything we can to fight this – both nationally and internationally – in order to prevent the abuse and degradation of women, children or men. The Christian People's Party wants Norway to go to the brink of modern slavery. We have called for Norway to have a goal of becoming the world's first slave-free country. Today, human trafficking and slavery are more brutal and more widespread, but less visible. I therefore hope the Council of State will respond to the challenge given: what can we do to combat modern slavery? The Palermo Protocol, which entered into force at the end of 2003, contributed to a common international understanding of trafficking in human beings. It was in many ways an important step towards getting a step closer to the end of slavery. But a definition is far from enough, which also later has shown. The definition is interpreted very differently in different countries, which in turn leads to a different approach to combating slavery. It's unfortunate. If we're really going to do something about this, we need a common international effort. Slavery is the exploitation of children, women and men to perform work and services — including prostitution, profitability, drug sales and begging — through the use of violence, threats and other control mechanisms. People are treated as goods that can be bought and sold, and then put into work. Under Section 224 of the Criminal Code, trafficking in people is prohibited in Norway. In order to combat this injustice experienced by many people, innovation and transparency are important. The Bondevik II government presented the first action plan on trafficking in human beings about ten years ago, and since then, the Norwegian authorities have continuously assessed and adjusted the measures taken to counter trafficking in human beings and to assist victims. Unfortunately, we still have a long way to go — both nationally and internationally. The issues relating to trafficking in human beings are very complex, and we therefore need more knowledge to help the individual. Research in the field must therefore be given priority. In 2008, the Stortinget decided to introduce a ban on the purchase of sexual intercourse or action, which entered into force on 1 January 2009. The background for the introduction of the ban was, among other things: that there should be a measure to combat modern slavery. The introduction of the law was an important milestone in highlighting human dignity, but it cannot be done simply by a legislative change, it must be complemented by good social measures to get people out of prostitution. It has always been the intention of the Christian People's Party, but unfortunately the government has not succeeded well enough here. The opponents of the law claim that the law does not work because too few people have been prosecuted. There is a very unfair line of argument against the police. We cannot demand that they enforce laws unless we enable them to do so. I was just in Sweden, where all parties stand together on the sex purchase law and say that it is a very good law, as well as that the police and volunteers working with the prostitutes support the law. They have achieved good results, but it would not have happened if it had not been political will – something that unfortunately has been lacking in the red-greens. What they also seem to be achieving in Sweden, which I believe is crucial, is that in addition to society's asserting that it's not okay to buy sex, it's also become a widespread understanding that buying sex helps to maintain the demand for prostitutes and thus also slavery. The 2002 sexual habit survey shows that 13 pst. Norwegian men buy sexual services. We must therefore work to give our children and young people good attitudes, and in school we must not only learn about the transatlantic slave trade, but also modern slavery must be the theme. We know that poverty makes many people feel forced to sell their kids to slavery or think they're being offered the dream job abroad, then being sold on the street. The provision of assistance to the prostitutes must therefore be seen in this context. Slavery victims are in a very vulnerable situation. They are often entirely alone and have been subjected to serious violence, threats, abuse or other improper behaviour. In addition, their families in their home country may be under threat from representatives from the rear. All of this makes it hard for them to get out of slavery. The offer given must therefore be complete, so that it can actually result in the individual being freed from his backbone. Finally, to eradicate trafficking in human beings, there is a need to do something about the causes, and we need to intensify the fight against the international networks that sell people. Many prostitutes stay in Norway for a short or longer period of time and then move on to other countries. If we are to succeed in preventing the recruitment of prostitutes and the fight against slavery, we must work actively internationally. In a 2009 report from Norad, Unsecured Traffic, the international trends in trafficking in human beings were mapped. It states that the limitation of the demand for prostitution is an important measure to combat trafficking in human beings. They refer in the report to the organisation Coalition Against Trafficking in Women, CATW, which has pointed out that Swedish criminalisation of the purchase of sexual services has led to a significant decrease in victims of trafficking in human beings from Eastern Europe – that is good. Einstein once said that the definition of madness is to do what you've always done, and believe it will give other results. In the report from Norad, there are many examples of actions that can be implemented, and if we just do what we have always done, we get the same results we have always received – in this case, unfortunately, lack of results. Ergo, we also have to be willing to think new. It is therefore interesting to hear what the Council of State thinks about any new measures in the fight against modern slavery.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2556	When the Sex Purchases Act was introduced, it had several purposes. It should be a normative law that clearly established that the purchase of the body is not acceptable in Norway. It's important in itself because we've seen clearly from other big cities where prostitution has a big place in the streetscape, that the purchase of women is normalized and more accepted behavior. I hear very often critics say that the law is meaningless because it is difficult to enforce. I've heard repeated attempts to try and problematize what prostitution really is and argue that this is something that will always occur, and that attempts to ban it are totally scarce. To that it is important to say that society has many laws that work normatively, and that help define what is right and not in our society, without necessarily being so easy to control what is happening in enclosed spaces. The prohibition of beating their own children in Norway is a very good example of such a law, and there is no doubt that that law paragraph has had a great influence on how to think about children and their status in Norway. Similarly, I have no doubt that the barrier for a young boy or a family father who is considering buying sex will be significantly higher when it is prohibited. But so important — and that’s what’s at the heart of my interaction with the Minister of Justice — is that the law should make Norway a less attractive market for trafficking in human beings by limiting the scope of the market. In the fight against trafficking in human beings for the purpose of prostitution, it is important to remember that without a market there will be no prostitution. Those who buy sex maintain the problem and contribute large sums of money into the black economy. So it's not enough just to fight backers, it also has to be directed towards those who demand and buy sexual services. One way to contribute to it is to do what we've done here in Norway: to criminalize the purchase of sex. Trafficking in human beings is, of course, forbidden in itself, but the figures from the police, despite being obsessed with some uncertainty, show that it is exploitation for prostitution purposes that dominates when people are traded to Norway. Internationally, it's estimated that about 80 pst. by the girls who are exposed to trafficking in human beings, it is made in the context of prostitution. This means that both the Sex Purchases Act and the Halik paragraph are potentially important instruments to combat human action here. But if this is to work effectively, it requires good international cooperation. According to the United Nations, trafficking in human beings is on its way to becoming the second largest illegal economy in the world after trafficking in weapons. The UN estimates the number of people who have been exposed to trafficking in human beings to be over 4 million. 80 pst. Of them, women and girls. 80 pst. Of these, once again, are being sexually exploited. Given the excess weight of women and girls among the victims, trafficking in human beings, or modern slavery, must be seen from a gender perspective. It is assumed that at least 700000 of them have been transported to Western Europe. Another very worrying trend is the development of multidisciplinaryism. From Kripos’ report on the evolution of organised crime, we can, among other things: see that a large proportion of organised crime in Norway is related to drug crime, for example: trafficking in human beings, serious thefts, torpedoing, home country, blackmailing and money laundering. They further state that trafficking in human beings detected in Norway is mainly related to sexual exploitation, and victims are most often exploited through prostitution. Several of the same environments that organise prostitution are also very active in other forms of crime. One trend in recent years is that they see stronger links between prostitution and drug crime. Persons associated with the prostitution environment in Norway are active in the exchange and export of currency. In some cases, it is a challenge to determine whether the money comes from drugs or prostitution. This trend is seen in the established prostitution environment, which works in both the outdoor and indoor markets. It makes it absolutely necessary to have a broad international approach to this. We have some important international pillars. The Palermo Protocol is one of them. The 2005 Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings is different. Norway is one of 30 countries bound by that protocol. It has previously been mentioned that in 2011, the government presented an action plan against trafficking in human beings. It was the backbone of several departments, and an essential element that that plan emphasizes is that the motivation for organised human trafficking is economic gain. Therefore, it is necessary to follow the flow of capital in order to detect and prosecute backers. In the United Nations, the need to combat trafficking in human beings and other organised crime through financial research following international capital flows has gradually become much more focussed. It is now estimated that the annual income from human trafficking is about 32 billion. euro. In an article published in the Human Rights Review in 2011, it was noted that the number of victims of sex trafficking has increased, while the costs of trafficking in human beings have fallen. Big money means great interests, and behind them there are big networks. Special skills and knowledge of trafficking in human beings are required in order to manage this well-organised activity. I believe it is very important that Norway has an active role to play in stopping illegal capital flows from human trafficking and helps to strengthen financial investigations in order to bring about the profit of trade. There's no doubt that with the sums we're talking about here, taking a penalty reaction is a calculated risk that doesn't seem particularly deterrent, when the win anyway is waiting for what you're releasing. We talk fast about a sky-high annual salary to take a period in prison if you don't have the possibility of effective withdrawal. This is not only about trafficking in human beings with prostitutes, but also about any other form of organised crime. I think it is interesting that the UN Secretary-General has now put crime as high on the agenda as he has now done. The review came in 2011 when the World Bank paid special attention to this, but the UN has not quite clearly found its role in it. Among other things, this is covered by six subcommittees of the United Nations General Assembly today. That's why I was glad to see that Norway was supporting the establishment of a United Nations coordinating body in this area, so I hope that's something we're going to follow closely in the time that's coming. Because if we're going to be able to hit the backers in an effective way, we have to go after the money. I am pleased with the opportunity to discuss this issue with the Minister of Justice. Norwegian law is good, but international cooperation is required to ensure that it works. I therefore allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice what the government is doing to strengthen international cooperation in this area, so that these laws can operate as efficiently as possible. There is no doubt that there are huge sums involved in this type of crime. I showed earlier in the article article published in the Human Rights Review, where you have actually entered and calculated the amount of winnings. It now costs on average $1,895 to buy a sex slave, while each sex slave annually generates about USD 29 210, and it is highly likely that commercial sex slavery will increase in the future. That is why I believe that it is a strength for Parliament that we are able to raise this kind of debate – also across the various party groups and across positions and opposition. This is the kind of issue that often disappears in today's day-to-day policy, but it is necessary that we ourselves remember how fundamental the problems actually are. This is not solved by simple political action overnight, but is something that requires nine-time follow-up, both from us as politicians and the institutions – among others. the police and the defence – which are set to be implemented. So with that, I address my question to the Minister of Justice and look forward to further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2577	Let me first connect to the two previous initiators -- every word they said, almost. So I want to start by pointing out that there were two young men who were out in several media a few weeks ago and took the order to set up brothels in Norway and to remove the laws that are today to prevent trafficking in human beings and sex purchases. I suggest that the two young men take a trip to the Crisis Centre Secretariat. There they will hear from foreign prostitutes who have hoped for what kind of life they have had. They have great damage to the abdomen. They're mentally traumatized. The only thing they know about Norway is Norwegian men who have severely reduced them. Horekunder has a different sex behavior when they buy prostitutes, than when they go home to the wife. A few years ago, I had a conversation with a lawyer who bisto trafficked girls from south-east Europe – girls who had the strength to escape from their slave drivers. This was before the new Sex Purchases Act came into force. They had shocking stories to tell. Here in Oslo – outside the landfill, every night, every night – sex slaves from Moldova and Ukraine worked as involuntary prostitutes. They started at 0 p.m. 18 o'clock, and I'd like to keep on till 6 o'clock. 6-7 in the morning. Many of them paid 90,000 kroner each month to a backer who then sent the money to powerful mafia networks. These girls might have read about Holmenkollen and beautiful fjords at school. But in Oslo they probably had not seen anything to Holmenkollen. They didn't know anything about the Norwegian welfare model. They were only humiliated at the most — humiliated as humans, as individuals — and deprived of their personal integrity. They only experienced Norwegian men who bought their bodies, and they experienced, not least, brutal hallucinations that knocked them up. Dropping off could mean represals against the families at home. A Ukrainian girl who tried was first beaten up. Then the mafia abducted her little sister in her home country and threatened to kill her. Another girl who fled home felt raped by Ukrainian border police on the way home. Are these girls the young men mentioned here supposed to be working in potential Norwegian brothels? I have visited the UN Office on Drugs and Crime several times — UNODC — in Vienna. They are strongly committed to combating trafficking in human beings in Europe. UNODC is perhaps best known in Norway for its advertising films, if it is possible to call them that – short stories with strong scenes of forced prostitution and slave labor, not least among children. The victims have either been lured, threatened, or simply kidnapped. The OSCE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, has also developed action plans against trafficking in human beings. The OSCE is particularly active in post-Soviet areas in the Caucasus and Central Asia, but also in the Balkans and in countries such as Moldova, Armenia and Ukraine. As the previous speakers also stressed, international organised crime has become increasingly multidisciplinary. The same is behind prostitution, drug trafficking and ransack. In Bergen, the police for a while took back West African asylum seekers with illegal residence selling dope. The money was smuggled out of the country by Nigerian prostitutes. Prostitution is the same source of income for international mobs as drug trafficking and drug trafficking. There's a lot of money here that's at stake. Norway is a buying country, lucrative for reckless backers. Therefore, it is important that we have preventive laws that slow down some of the flow of foreign prostitutes to Norway. But they have to be enforced, and I want to ask the Minister of Justice if she believes that it is sufficiently happening. Prostitution is violence against women. But prostitution also confirms the two-part division of the woman as a whore and a madonna, against which the women's movement has fought for 100 years. Men who buy sex tramp on sexual equality between men and women. The last years before the Sex Purchases Act came, we know that boys from high school in Oslo made their debut with foreign prostitutes. What kind of vision did the boys get on female sexuality? Or the stories we heard about guys that dimmed from Rena and went to Trondheim to celebrate with prostitutes. They're not doing that right now. The threshold is getting higher because it's banned. This is also how the law works. A law against the purchase of sexual services is a settlement of structures and attitudes that reduce women and women's sexuality to a good. It's also about gender equality. The law is also unique in recognising the different power relationships between supply and demand. It's the market that's being criminalised, it's the market that creates prostitution, and it's the market that we want to get smaller, we want fewer sex clients. I belong to a generation where right of self and own sexuality was part of the feminist struggle: fight against different morals for women and men, fight against the concepts of whore and madonna. Today, we have three laws to counteract prostitution: the law of sex purchase, the pedestal paragraph – to take the backers – and the ban on brothels, which the police use to take the internal market. The laws are linked. The Halik paragraph is very important because it authorizes the investigation of backers and organisations, organisations that often engage in several types of crime. It is also an important signal that it is prohibited to sell and contribute to the sale of prostitutes in Norway. We want to send a signal to the rearmen nationally and internationally: selling other people is and will be punishable, it is also buying sex and establishing brothels. Our signal to the outside world is: it's not money to earn from the sale of women in Norway. If we remove the three laws, the international mafia will ship thousands of girls to Norway, because Norway is buying if the market becomes legal again. But because we're buying, we also see why the laws are being challenged. Internationally, it is important to have similar laws in other countries in Europe, and there are very many discussions. Joyful things happen: When the World Cup in football was in Germany, a container village with prostitutes was planned. Women members of the European Parliament acted and made contact with EU Justice Ministers. The village didn't make any of it. During the World Cup in South Africa, the Halicans discovered that there was no market and drew some of the prostitutes out again. When I talk about Norwegian equality policy with foreign politicians, I also take our view of prostitution. It is also important in the relationship we have between the Nordic countries and the Baltic countries that we tell our colleagues that prostitution and trafficking in women are unacceptable. Prostitution is a cultural and structural social problem. I believe that trafficking in human beings is violence against both women and small boys to a very large extent and against children, and that it is a serious violation of human rights. No one believes that prostitution or human trafficking disappears by law alone – no one believes it. Stealing is prohibited; insider dealing is prohibited, but that does not mean that thefts are gone. But the threshold gets higher. The laws are at the bottom to deal with trafficking, with trafficking in human beings, and send a powerful signal to what is unacceptable behavior, and what violates the integrity of women and children. But we need to follow them up with action plans to make men aware that they're not going to buy sex. And besides, we need – and let me refer to what was said by the first interpellant here – further measures to get women out of prostitution. What is being done today from the Crisis Centre Secretariat and the ROSA project is largely targeting foreign women who have fallen off. It does very well, but of course we need a much more systematic follow-up. And I would like to stress that the autumn of the Sex Purchases Act was passed, several of us contributed 10 million. kr. There were people from all parties who contributed to it, but we need to reinforce that effort. So all the way back to these two young men. I have sometimes wondered who the young men who recently went out against the law and were in favour of brothels, believe to be prostitutes in the brothels – their sisters, perhaps their girlfriends, or perhaps future daughters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2632	I would first like to thank you for the three interpellations. The raising of three interpellations on the same theme illustrates the importance of continuing to focus on what is needed to combat trafficking in human beings and to help people out of prostitution. Interpellants have raised questions related both to the impact of our national legislation on prostitution and trafficking and to our international efforts in this area. It is natural for me first to say a few things about the situation in Norway. Today's criminal law has several provisions that address various acts relating to the purchase and sale of sexual services. These provisions aim, on the one hand, at preventing the purchase and sale of sexual services and, on the other, at preventing anyone from exploiting others for such activities and, on the other hand, at preventing the dissemination of prostitution. The penal code § 202 is often referred to as the Halik paragraph, and it affects the one promoting the prostitution of others. Intermediate activities and the organisation of sex clubs are examples of actions affected by the provision. It also affects the owner of premises and understands that the premises are to be used for prostitution. Section 202 of the Criminal Act also targets the person who, in the public notice, offers, communicates or asks for prostitution. The Criminal Act § 202a affects the purchase of sexual services from adults. It's this paragraph that's called the Sex Purchases Act. The aim of this provision was to contribute to the reduction of trafficking in human beings in Norway and to change attitudes towards the purchase of sexual services. The penal code § 224 applies to trafficking in human beings and is not just aimed at the exploitation of people in prostitution. Nevertheless, trafficking in human beings in Norway has been largely linked to the exploitation of women in prostitution. Otherwise, let me briefly remind you that the Stortinget, when we adopted our new penal code, continued the content of today's legislation. The law rests on the idea that prostitution is negative. It's harmful for a person to be in prostitution, and it's usually people in vulnerable and unhappy situations that end up in prostitution. Furthermore, there is a clear experience that organised prostitution often comes out of, and gives rise to, criminal activities of different kinds. Our social assistance measures have the task of assisting people in prostitution by helping them in their everyday lives, but also by encouraging and supporting them in attempts to leave their businesses. We also support attempts to reach out to customers and offer advice to get them to refrain from buying sexual services. We all see that legislation can be criticised for containing contradictions. Legislation allows the sale of sexual services, but punishes the purchase of the same services. Individuals may sell sexual services but are not allowed to organise activities in an appropriate manner. We must live with such paradoxes, and it is not the country in the world that has succeeded in reconciling all the considerations that should be taken care of with regard to the sale of sexual services in its legislation and enforcement practices. We are all talking, including me, about the fight against trafficking in human beings and prostitution. However, it is important to remember the nuances of the legislation that make it unprescious to say that we are combating prostitution, since such a use of terms may raise doubts about our solidarity and support for those in prostitution. Without a conviction that they need our support over punishment, the only natural thing would be to also ban the sale of sexual services. It's different with human trafficking. This modern form of slavery is a cynical exploitation of vulnerability and poverty and a serious form of profit-based crime. There are questions about how I think these legal provisions work to reduce the Norwegian prostitution market. Here I would first like to remind you that we continuously assess whether the law is up to date. Penalties must always reflect changes in the way prostitution is done, for example. how to establish contact between the customer and the seller. As a result of an enquiry from the Oslo police district, which has been targeted for several years to combat insidious activities and trafficking in human beings, the Ministry of Justice and Defence has seen the need to amend the penal code § 202 and will, in our opinion, be consulted on a proposal that will clearly affect all types of dissemination of prostitution. Recent case-law relating to advertising via the Internet has shown that the legislation has not been up-to-date. I would like to emphasise that our criminal provisions in this area are interrelated and that the assessment of their functioning and enforcement is therefore complicated. When you banned the purchase of sexual services, we were concerned about how the ban would work for women in prostitution. Would they become more vulnerable to violence and become less accessible to relief measures? We decided that after some time we would evaluate the effect of the ban. This evaluation is being carried out this year, but we already see major challenges in isolating the impact of the ban from other events. However, an evaluation is far more than counting persons in prostitution at different venues before and after the ban. The increase in trafficking in human beings has made it necessary for the police to combat organised prostitution in various ways. Even before the ban on the purchase of sexual services came into force, the police in Oslo had put in place a strategy to prevent foreign insidious networks from establishing themselves in the city. By means of an operation without a home, the police seek out homeowners who hire prostitutes and inform them that if they wish to avoid criminal prosecution, the rental relationship or prostitution must cease. Often, women are thrown out of their apartments on short notice. This strategy probably affects the situation of these women and their relationship with the police to a far greater extent than the fact that their customers are at risk of punishment. There is reason to believe that women in prostitution are failing to report that they have been subjected to violence or threats to the police, in fear that this could lead to their being thrown out of the apartment in which they live. We see here an unfortunate consequence of the paradoxes we encounter in the field of prostitution, and these are issues that we need to address. Our action plan against trafficking in human beings is a central governance document for this work. The Ministry collects information on the implementation of the action plan’s actions and on the enforcement of the law on prostitution and trafficking in human beings in many different ways. We receive information through meeting activities and through reporting by the police, other authorities, organisations and researchers. Overall, the impression is left that the police are giving the necessary priority to the task and that good results are being achieved. As for the international effort, let me say a little bit more before I go into it. Whether the police give the necessary priority to the task is a question of both quality and scope, whether sufficient capacity is set for this task, and also how the tasks associated with this area relate to other forms of organised crime. This is a total of problems that we have increased attention to — including how to solve these problems better. As far as our international efforts are concerned, the Ministry of Justice and Defence has the primary responsibility to coordinate the government's efforts against trafficking in human beings. Several ministries work together to meet the government's objectives. Our international efforts are managed by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and Defence and other departments. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs asked Norad in 2008 to review efforts to combat trafficking in human beings. The main objective was to gain knowledge of the results and experiences of the Norwegian-funded effort and to see it in a wider international context. The result of the review was identified in three different reports — unsafe traffic is one of them. The reports form an important part of the background dossier of the Action Plan against Trafficking in Human Beings, presented by the Ministry of Justice and Security in December 2010, and valid until and including next year. A key consideration in Insecure traffic is that one of the main challenges in work is the complexity and need for an overall approach. Our action plan makes it clear that the government shares this view and therefore continues our broad international efforts, both through efforts to strengthen the international framework and through project support for prevention and assistance for victims. Insecure traffic sums up experience from work against trafficking in human beings and refers to some measures that are considered as ‘best practice’. I will give some examples of how the government has assessed and followed up the report. The report shows, as many have already mentioned, the Palermo Protocol on the prevention, control and punishment of trafficking in human beings, in particular women and children. This Protocol to the UN Convention on Transboundary Organised Crime, UNTOC, is the main global instrument against trafficking in human beings. The report points out that, despite the overall strategic approach of the Protocol to combating trafficking in human beings, the implementation of measures has proved to be very uneven. The Government agrees with this assessment. This is why Norway, within the UN, has actively supported the efforts to establish a monitoring mechanism for the UNTOC and the Palermo Protocol. It was expected that the Conference of the Parties to UNTOC would adopt the mechanism last October. However, there was no consensus due to differing views on funding and civil society participation. The matter is expected to be put on the agenda again at the next Conference of the Parties in 2014. Another action the report refers to is the need for the police to conduct economic investigations into human trafficking issues in order to follow the flows of money both before and after attacks. I believe this – like the inter-pellant Marthinsen – is an important and correct measure. Action 2 in our Action Plan states that Norway should contribute to international efforts to stop illegal capital flows from trafficking in human beings and strengthen financial investigations for the purpose of withdrawing profits. Norway has therefore funded a United Nations study on money from criminal activities, including trafficking in human beings. The study was the basis for a subsequent resolution initiated by Norway and adopted by the United Nations Commission on Crime and the General Assembly. In turn, the Norwegian police have carried out investigations that have resulted in judgments on money laundering arising from trafficking in human beings and organised prostitution. «Insecure traffic» recommends raising awareness of the fact that men are also victims of trafficking in human beings and that efforts to combat forced labour are given sufficient priority. Action 1 of our Action Plan mentions that Norway, through participation in the Baltic Sea Council, will strengthen the focus on trafficking in human beings on the labour market. Norway, at the Ministry of Justice and Defence, chaired the Baltic Sea Council working group against trafficking in human beings for one year, until July 2011. The working group is now implementing a project in the Baltic Sea region to strengthen cooperation against forced labour at national and international level. As part of this project, a national seminar on forced labour was held in Oslo in mid-March this year. This is one example of our national efforts to combat human trafficking being integrated into our international commitment in the field. We have ensured that our national experts are up-to-date on international experience, and in a similar way, Norwegian-based cooperation and exchange of experience between countries and organisations are being helped. The government is making a broad and comprehensive effort to strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings internationally — efforts that support the objective of preventing trafficking in human beings in Norway and of preventing and combating this crime in other countries as well. However, we must constantly focus on what we can do better, both in terms of legislation, concrete action and enforcement.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2697	I would like to thank the inter-pellants for putting human trafficking on the agenda of today's Stortinget. Trafficking in human beings is a cross-border organised crime and a serious violation of human rights. It is a form of crime that strikes the victims very hard and puts the international community to the test. Trafficking in human beings violates fundamental human rights, including the prohibition of slavery and forced labour under the European Convention on Human Rights. It is therefore entirely in place that the interpellant Rupstad of the Christian People's Party calls human trafficking the slavery of our time. In Norway, trafficking in human beings is mainly trafficking in women and minors exploited for prostitution or other sexual purposes, but there is also trade in which men are victims. False promises of a better life lead the victims of cross-border trafficking in human beings, and many believe that they should work in the service professions, as domestic workers or as models. Trafficking in human beings is when one person exploits another for prostitution or other sexual purposes, for forced labour or for forced services. There may be begging, drug sales along Akerselva or organ harvesting — this through coercion, violence, threats or abuse of the person’s particularly vulnerable situation. Some of the victims know they're going into the sex industry, but they don't know they're going to get paid little or nothing. Nor do they know that threats, violence or withdrawal of freedom of movement or right of access to their own bodies can become part of everyday life. Many are beaten, raped, imprisoned and starved until they do what the rearmen demand. I would particularly like to use the opportunity here today to bring forward two important projects offering assistance and support to victims of trafficking in human beings. The ROSSA project has been at the heart of the assistance with its offer of follow-up to victims since 2005. ROSA offers assistance and protection throughout Norway 24 hours a day for women exposed to trafficking in human beings, and they do an invaluable job to assist these victims. The crisis centre in Bodø had for a long time a young woman who was exposed to human trafficking, living with her, and they have stressed emphatically that it would be extremely difficult for them to give the help and support that was needed to this woman, without having ROSA there as a contact point. Earlier this year I visited Laura's House, which is here in Oslo. It's a project directed by the Church's Bymition. They offer safe housing to victims of trafficking in human beings. In addition to housing, the project shall provide social follow-up related, inter alia, to: social, health and legal challenges. It is an offer that was made because many expressed concern that victims of trafficking were living in crisis centres for a long time. It was particularly worrying – and still is – when these victims become residents of children in crisis centres for several months and up to one year. Laura’s Hus is the only project in Norway that is doing this, and the government’s action plan refers to the project. It is important that this be followed up in the government's work on victims of trafficking in human beings in the future, and that consideration be given to making these two projects particularly permanent. Interpellant Nybakk highlighted the link between prostitution and trafficking in human beings in particular — as far as the other interpellants were concerned. I want to go ahead with the work done by the Trondheim police with the Sex Purchases Act. More than half of the illegal sex purchases that are exposed here in the country are revealed in Trondheim, and that of the South-Trøndelag police district’s own group, called ‘Pimp It’. There are two permanent officials assigned to only work on sex-purchase matters. They focus on outreach activities, they check that the prostitutes are doing well, they work to prevent street prostitution from occurring in the city, and they reveal hallucinations and trafficking in human beings. Knowledge in general in society is important. I liked the idea of the representative, Ropstad, to bring this into school. Knowledge of crisis centres is also important in order to be able to deal with this properly, but it is important that the police know how to carry out the special questioning of these victims in as gentle a manner as possible. Many of these women will have trouble trusting two great men to hear their story, once they have told their story to the police in other countries who have been involved with the backers. By talking to these policemen, their lives have become worse, and they have continued to live as sex slaves.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2716	There have been a lot of good posts. A lot has been said, but there is also a lot of explanation of the situation. One thing is at least certain: there's a cross-political consensus on reducing both prostitution and trafficking in human beings, but it shouldn't be a debate that's just about the sex-purchasing law, because it's actually so much, much more than that. It's human trafficking, it's organized crime, it's illegal living hidden, it's begging, it's – as we've seen recently – au pair order, etc., etc. There's a lot to be covered by what's involved in human smuggling and trafficking. This is a deep problem, and it applies in many areas. As a member of the OSCE, we had a visit to Iana Matei. Iana Matei is a Romanian writer and human rights champion, and it was very interesting to read her book. I don't know if anyone in the room has read the book of Iana Matei. This is just about what we are discussing today, that is human trafficking. She was very clear and very concrete. She told us in the OSCE group that there are three main areas that she wanted us in Norway to take action. One was to follow the flow of money – it has been the representative of Marthinsen and others in: to follow the flow of money. She told us that most European countries have these currency exchange offices. We've seen them all. There can be one, among others: Buy cash cards, bit cards. One can go in and deliver money, and then get one out of a card that can later be used as payment. Then you can't track that flow of money afterwards. Then there are some cards that can be used abroad, in any currency, and that have broken the cash flows. Then we have currency dogs on the frontier. In Norway today we have some currency dogs. We know this very well in the South. There we have one that works very well. There should have been far, far more currency dogs standing on the border – on the Gardermoen, on Svinesund and elsewhere where there are many people going out and in. The second point she writes about in the book is more severe punishment — a higher level of punishment. It shall be afraid to be taken, and it shall be soon to be delivered when one is taken. There should be a faster procedure, and there should be separate prisons pending the expulsion of the foreign population. The third thing she brought up is witness protection for those who dare to report. I remember when the Justice Committee was in the Netherlands. We were told how a girl like that dared to be in a witnessing program, and how one could manage to separate the girls from her pimps. This was especially true of Nigerian prostitutes. One went in and hired two voodoo priests. I know we can shake our heads here, but everyone in the Justice Committee sitting here in the Chamber knows that it was said. In Holland – or the Netherlands today – there are almost no Nigerian prostitutes because they had hired those who could take away the game – or what to call it. Interestingly, you can do it with such simple means. Then we must have stricter control of the border. The customs authorities play a very central role here, especially on the internal borders of Schengen, where the police are largely absent. I myself have been with and revealed a professional team of traffickers at the Gardermoen. The customs must have limited police authority, they must have more scanners to see people hidden in containers, we must have far more controls on buses and trains, and if suspects, we must have extra ID control to see who these girls are traveling with men. So border control is the key to preventing organized criminal groups from running girls and boys without being caught. Matei also says that Norway’s cooperation with other countries, whether through the SIS system or other databases, is very important. So this debate that needs to come about on Schengen and what we can achieve from the agreements we have is important. Now I could probably have gone into the six-purchase law itself, but I have not chosen to do that. We've discussed it before, and we'll probably discuss it again. The most important thing for us now is to cope with the fight against organized criminal networks.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2740	We don't discuss this too rarely here in Stortinget. The term ‘trafficking’ covers what it really is about — it’s too neutral. Trafficking unfortunately sounds like part of the NTP. Slavery is therefore the right concept of what it is about, because unlike trafficking in goods and drugs, the human body can be used over and over again. The approach angle of the three interpellants is women, children and prostitution. That's right, but at the same time it's wrong. That's right because female prostitution is the most visible, but it's wrong because we need more imagination to discover the different variants of slavery. Prostitution is part of the picture, but not all. It's about roofing, it's about asphalting, it's about car wash, it's about berry picking, it's about bedding and it's about fishing. I was at a conference where I met people from the department who started talking about trafficking related to the neighbourhoods and Russia where there were fisheries. I had never heard of that, it was new to me. My point is that we have to know: what are we seeing? What is the Tollvessen look at? What else is the police looking at in society? Do we see a criminal, or do we see a possible trafficking victim, a slave who is not a woman and is not a prostitute, but used as a slave for other things. The debate is limited. I think it is very much debated about women and women. One thing is here in the Chamber today, but where in the world are all the male transport politicians in these debates, the male business politicians, the male trade union spammers who are engaged in social dumping, but never talk about trafficking in human beings. The debate must also be conducted by them. The debate must be about men too, and it must be discussed by men – not just justice. Some concrete measures: Norway needs a national rapporteur, who is completely independent of the government, in order to ensure that Norwegian authorities are followed, evaluated and criticised in isolation, in line with the pattern of what it has in the Netherlands. It's a way to get more systematic knowledge of what works and does not work in the entire field of human trafficking and slavery. Those who have said that you have to follow the money are quite right, because it must cost something to use the human body. Today, it's just a common business decision of the environments behind it. They calculate that you can use your body so many times that it doesn't cost anything, whether they're taken once or twice. It is simply part of the budget that someone is being taken. So you have to think widely also internationally. A Europe in economic chaos also needs Norwegian assistance, for example. Lithuania with regard to the use of modern police methods as monitoring. It costs a lot, so they can't afford it. It also helps the Norwegian police to be frustrated that they do not receive more convictions than they do, because they simply do not have enough information from the countries from which the women, men and children come. Then no one has said anything about the reflection period, which is six months. A lot of research indicates that it has no real content at all. We should discuss the length of it. What's really happening while people have the reflection period. There are different practices and lack of understanding of what the reflection period should contain, and there is talk of their protection. In conclusion, I would say that it is possible to be a feminist without being in favour of the law of sex purchase, but I believe that in order to be able to call yourself a real feminist, you should include both sexes when debating slavery. I only have 5 minutes, but I hope that the well-being of women who come after me on the list of speakers and who usually stand here in this kind of debate can take some time to expand the concept of trafficking/slavery so that both sexes are involved in the debate. Anna Ljunggren was inside, and the council had some side statements. I think it's sad after a human trade debate based on three interpellations, if the record becomes: women, a Right-Homse and he from the Christian People's Party talk a little – and that's it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2759	I will extend the debate to an even more grotesque field of human trafficking. Today, the report stated that five persons were sentenced to eight years in prison for illegal organ trafficking and transplantation in Kosovo, a matter that the Council of Europe has worked to a great extent. Among the five are Kosovo's most famous urologist, and it is in the EU-led court in Pristina that this judgment fell on Monday. They're doomed to evict organs, to sell the organs, and to illegally transplant them. The representative Octay Dahl said that the human body can be used over and over again. Yes, finally, for some children – I think unfortunately also very early – it can actually be so grotesque that you kill people to take out the organs and sell them. There is also a market that exists out there, and it is completely impossible to understand that it can be at all. Some authorities have now begun to look at this as well. So human trafficking is a billion-dollar industry in line with arms trafficking and drug trafficking, as many have said, and is very often involved in it. That's why, like the others, I'm very concerned about following the flow of money. The action plan states that traffickers are to be punished, but paragraph 30 says ‘Proclaim the police to follow the money’. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice if it is enough to encourage the police. If we don't manage to get a completely consistent follow-up of following the money in this area, we're not going to succeed. Just like social dumping, which is another kind of human trafficking, there's so much money in it that we don't succeed if we don't have the power to take the money away. It is not easy to do just in Norway, but we have to say that it is, because that is what will work. What will work for the victims here and now is that they will get help, and that the measures we have in this area will be made permanent and safe. We also need to look at our asylum policy, so that it is not too strict, so that people who are exposed to it actually dare to go to the authorities and ask for advice, because they feel safe that they are being taken care of. But I am very concerned about this with the money. That, of course, requires us to get closed tax havens. That's absolutely necessary. None of us are safe if we don't get to do that, either businesses, countries or individuals, and it's very important that we get cooperation in the field of justice, but also in the field of finance, to stop this. There have been some examples here today of how to do this. So it's absolutely vital that we get international instruments on this, but also Norwegian instruments, and that the police actually do it, that this is going to be a major issue. Then I'm concerned about what the representative Anna Ljunggren was about in terms of prostitution and that part of human trafficking – the organisation they've had in Trondheim in this field, where they have dedicated people who make the vulnerable people who haven't been able to trust anyone before in their lives can get someone in the police they dare to trust. I think we all understand that takes time. There must be people on the streets in the environment so long that people actually realize that this is not someone who is part of an environment or part of a police there, to say it like that, a rape awaits them in the arrest, as many of them have experienced in other countries, and that also applies to both women and men. So I would like to hear if the Minister of Justice could say a little more about how to follow up this both in terms of money and in terms of the organisation of political work, and how the Minister of Justice views these measures that are in progress. They have to be permanent, because there can't be anyone who thinks this will go into a trial period.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2777	There are many tragic individual who hide behind the encroachment of human trafficking and prostitution, and it is widespread cynicism and egoism that help these phenomena not only succeed, but increase the extent of cynicism and egoism of those behind them, those who force others to sell themselves to spend money on it, and the cynicism and egoism of those who buy sex and thus exploit vulnerable people. These maintain the market in such a way that background workers still see hallucination as a source of income. It's essentially human trafficking in the form of prostitution that's being uncovered in Norway. But it's also in the Hordaland police district dedicated trafficking in human beings in the form of coercion and coercion to commit fraud and theft. If the police go into these issues, I think they'll find more of it. The interpellant Kjell Ingolf Ropstad held a very good and visionary post in place. Together with the other two interpellants, he shows how big and serious the problem of trafficking in human beings and modern slavery is. The fact that we get three equally interpellations for debate in our national Parliament shows that the theme is taking us people-elected, that we are taking the serious problem seriously. It is also the right to prohibit the purchase of sex. If the sex law has had the desired effect, there are different points of view. The representative Marianne Marthinsen did well for the legislative purpose of law. When it comes to statistics, there's not a simple answer. There's still too much prostitution. How much would have been without sex laws is impossible to know. What we know is that human trafficking on an international basis is increasing. Everything we can do to prevent increasing prostitution and trafficking in human beings here in Norway is important as part of preventing people from being exploited in the most brutal way. Minister of Justice Faremo did well for various important actions. In the book ‘Mafia in Norway — The New Criminal Landscape’, by Stein Morten Lier, the author writes that the West African criminal networks use people with Western appearances, among others. from Poland and Lithuania to swallow the drug and smuggle it into our country. He further writes about the reason for this: ‘Rightly because these countries are part of Schengen, and persons in this area are not controlled in the same way as persons outside Schengen.’ I will certainly not try to turn this debate over to a debate on Schengen, because the issue of trafficking in human beings is much greater than this. I nevertheless allow myself to point out that the lack of personal checks at borders makes it more difficult to prevent just cross-border crime. As pointed out in the report ‘Organised crime in Norway — trends and challenges in 2011–2012’, drug crime and trafficking are often linked. The representative Oktay Dahl has made a commendable effort over several years to get the real obvious fact that boys and men are also victims of sexual assault and trafficking in human beings. His call for us to be better able to think about this is in place, and I actually believe that the fact that Oktay Dahl has repeated this in many relevant contexts has prompted us to expand our horizons in this way. I hope that in what we often refer to as a modern and civilised society, we can eliminate uncivilized manifestations of cynicism and egoism. Finally, I would like to bring forward the representative Nybakk asked for at the end of his post, if anyone would have worked in any legal brothel. I would think that the vast majority of the men who now think prostitution is okay, would think it would be worse to support prostitution and brothel if they thought thoroughly through the question Nybakk asked, whether those who are going to work there should be their own sisters, wives, or daughters.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2804	I also want to thank the interpellants, who challenge us on very important questions. I think many of us up through growth have had the idea that slavery was something we read about in the history books, and that was abolished once in the 1800s. But I think we can also look back and think, how could they let that happen, those who lived at that time? How could they just look at people being oppressed, treated like animals and sold on the market? But then, when we look around, we see that slavery was not abolished in the 1800s. I agree with the representative of Ropstad, who believes that trafficking in human beings is the slavery of our time. And not only that, maybe it's even more widespread and brutal now than what we read about that time. But how are we going to be able to end this slavery? The Bondevik government was the first to put forward an action plan against trafficking in human beings, and the current government should be very grateful that they have followed up both a new action plan and measures in the budgets to put an end to this. However, despite the fact that both the population and government have had a focus on trafficking in human beings, the number of victims has increased in Norway, and in recent years we have seen that there have been cases where trafficking in human beings is linked, among other things. aupairs, sex sales, begging, etc. The rise in the problem may be a sign that it is too simple and too lucrative for the backers to come to Norway and run this business. It is appropriate to assume that this is due to the fact that there is a lot of money here, measured against a low risk and for a small impact on the backers of the Norwegian market. There are several reasons to believe that the risk of being convicted for human trafficking and slavery seems low in Norway. In particular, we find a tremendous fear among prostitutes to report their behinders. They fear represals from the rearmen both against themselves and – not least – against their families in their home country. But they also fear being sent out of the country to be retrapped. It is therefore important that the victims be adequately protected if they choose to report their behindrs. Consideration should also be given to facilitating permanent residence in Norway for victims of trafficking in human beings. I am pleased with the critical remarks the Council of State had made to the police's Action homeless against prostitutes. It's a cross of thought how we might scare prostitutes from telling us about violence and report backers. It is a concern shared by the Christian People's Party. We who participate in these debates, whatever we may now be, are quite important in terms of the view of slavery, trafficking in human beings or trafficking. I think we need a promise of knowledge when it comes to slavery. We in the Christian People's Party have called for a rise in knowledge among most people, for whom shall we look? The representative André Oktay Dahl challenges us on that today: Who are we looking for? Some are obvious, but there are several. If we look at the United States, one third of modern slavery is revealed by ordinary citizens, who react to what they see in society around them. In order for ordinary citizens to be able to help, a greater level of information is needed. The fight against trafficking in human beings is not about the fight against prostitution, organ trafficking, surrogati or slavery alone. For trafficking in human beings and slavery, new packaging and designs are emerging. A sentence from the Nigerian girls who were involved in human trafficking and were prostitutes, who were here in Norway some time ago, has stuck in me. They said, "Our guys are playing football, we're doing prostitution. Have we thought about the system within sports, within football? We sit and kiss each weekend with ball games. Who's looking at the stories behind it? Who ensures that we get good systems where it's about choices, playing football or doing other things? The fight against trafficking in human beings is about the fight for freedom, for independence, for equality and for human dignity. I would like to thank the inter-pellants for the initiative of cooperation for a slave-free Norway and a slave-free world.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2825	I would also like to thank all three interpellants. Trafficking in human beings and forcing prostitution – all these abuses against individuals – must be combated, and we must fight them effectively. This is the most cruel form of oppression that can be thought of, and the right word is slavery. I have sailed around and visited the Shelters in Eastern Europe and heard stories about those who have tried to get out of it, but also the despair of many of those who do not want to get out of it, because the defeat by coming home again is so great that you feel ruined as a human being. The first action plan against trafficking in human beings was presented by Minister of Justice Dørum in 2002 and renewed in 2004. I don't think anyone in this room, at least not those who participate in this debate, has anything but a strong commitment to stop this. I also believe that the Council of State had a good response when it comes to following the cash flows and the macrogrips that should be taken. But politics is not just what you do in international meetings, you have to limit the flow of money and follow the big sharks. It's also about helping the individual women and the individual men. It was mentioned here past numbers that show that 80 pst. of those who are exposed to trafficking in human beings are women. It is also about how to define trafficking in human beings. Today, we experience that many – e.g. men, e.g. in ordinary construction jobs – may have fine employment contracts on paper, but backers and criminal structures have such thanks to the family there at home, having such thanks to family flows, that people are actually slaves, and slaves to criminal structures. That means that trafficking in human beings and slavery does not exist only within the sex industry and only towards women. There are also many other criminal structures in which the labour of individuals is exploited in pure slavery. It is also important to have other measures at individual level. I'm a feminist, but I think the Sex Purchases Act has been a tragedy for the women who are in this area. It is clear that for citizenship it has been a normist, it is clear that for citizenship it has been nice to be able to show clear streets. But really, it's become a sleep cushion for policymaking in this area. For very many women, the problem is exactly what Dagrun Eriksen raised, that they feel that they do not get the protection against violence they received earlier, that the abuses have become bigger and more frequent, and that they do not experience the police as a shooting weekend, as they did in the past. I want the very weakest women, the ones who get the most involved in society, to experience that the police are on their side, that the police are on their side, that the police are on their side, that the police are on their side, that the police are on their side, that the police are on their side, that they are on their side. And then we're going to have to set norms in other ways in society. The effort has also not been good for witnesses. It's been hard to break out. We don't have structures that are good enough to give people an alternative. I believe that you should have put the whole package – not just with reflection time, but maybe with microcredit, maybe with knowledge building, which could give many of the women when they go back, the opportunity to get out of the criminal structures and have enough structure and control of their lives to enable them to get out of the sewer they're in. I notice that lately the state has also been convicted because we are unable to protect witnesses, women who have been subjected to violence, well enough. It is a warning that we are not good enough to protect witnesses or to prioritise this high enough. It was also shocking to see stories on Dagsrevyen about the women who stand up and actually want to testify against – I don't think 'dreite bag' is a parliamentary expression, so that's why: the worst traffickers. That you can't support those women who actually break out, who actually report to the police, who actually say they're willing to testify to end these criminal structures, means that we're not good enough. We have to make sure that the witnesses – the women who want to break out – are raised to the gold chair and do not feel that they are being pushed down and not taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2842	I want to join those who have thanked the three interpellants for addressing a very important topic. It's also true, as Trine Skei Grande says, that it's not just prostitutes we're talking about, it's also labour, it's beggars, and it's organ donations. The mountains have been mentioned in this context. I was visiting the police in Bergen, and those who work with organized human trafficking there, told me that they had sent a witness, a prostituted young girl at 17 years of age, back where she came from. When she witnessed the matter, she was not found – she was probably retrapped. They also told us that they could do a maximum of two trafficking cases in a year because of a lack of resources. It shouldn't be like that. We have to make sure that at all times we have the resources that are needed to just take these. I understand that trafficking is expensive, because it also requires research beyond the borders of the country. But anyway, we have to afford this, because this is the darkest side of oppression and child abuse. Then I also want to talk a little bit about the children in St. Petersburg – I've done it before. I visited a children's home in St. Petersburg, where children found on the street were placed. These children were from five years of age and up. When we asked the employees at the orphanage how this five-year-old – who was a wonderfully well-known child – had ended up there, they said it turned out that the parents had sold him because they did not have food and had to take care of the rest of their children. Then they chose to sell this child. It was the child's home's duty – when they found out this boy's identity – to send him back to his parents. Then we can imagine how it works. It's incredibly important that we look at the instruments that exist, and that's actually the means that we can use. But it is clear that poverty and distress in countries other than Norway contribute to the lucrative traffic of women, labour and beggars here to the country. Organs and newborn babies include: operated to England. It's a shame that in Western Europe we at all agree on things like this. This is a debate that is not unique to Norway, and then I come to my heart, and that is the Council of Europe. We have dealt with this in the Council of Europe. We have a resolution called 1337, which I would recommend to the Minister of Justice to read. In fact, it says different instruments, both international and national, and it is about prevention and more legal instruments. I would recommend the Minister of Justice to read it. In addition, the Council of Europe also has conventions to combat trafficking in women and children. We have a convention to combat organ trafficking. We also have a convention – and perhaps we should start there – that Norway has signed, but not ratified, called the Council of Europe Convention on Combating Violence and Sexual Exploitation of Children. Maybe we should do that and start sweeping at our own door, by actually being the ones that are best just at ratifying conventions that are being made. I think it was incredibly interesting what the representative Skei Grande proposed on reflection time and microcredit. We can't just send trafficked prostitutes home again, because then we know what's going on: they'll be re-trafficked. So this might also be some tools we should look at, because what we want is that everyone should have a decent life.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2859	I want to thank you for all the good posts. I think it's been a very good debate. There have been articles that have addressed the issues raised in the interview and that have launched many good measures. I hope the Council of State has listened well, for there is a lot of exciting here that needs to be included in the work to combat slavery. My post was a lot about prostitution and, to the extent, also about the sex purchase law, so I would like to comment on the article to Skei Grande and others who mentioned the sex purchase law and thought it had to be removed. I think it is naive to think that it is sex purchase alone that causes violence against women, or that removing the sex purchase law will help to do so much better. The point is that we're going to reduce the demand for prostitution. It's unmistakable that prostitution will be history if the customers don't exist. So the question is, what can we do to reduce demand? I believe that the Sex Purchases Act is a contribution to this, because it is normative. I've been involved, for example. training at school, which may be a different approach to creating attitudes. I told you about my visit to Sweden, where it's almost a political suicide to be against the Sex Purchases Act – precisely because those who see it working. It is also interesting to see the differences between police districts in Norway. There are several people who have been to Trondheim as an example that makes it work better than other police districts. It must also be a priority task for the Minister of Justice to ensure that this is a priority for the police. The question is whether it is not deterrent enough today – that is, fear of being taken is not big enough. I think that has to be a point to reduce demand. This is not about men and, to the extent that women also – mainly men who buy sex – do so in order to behave normally. As Andersen's representative was inside, it's brutal men, and that's why there's also violence. I don't think there's going to be any less violence because it's not forbidden. My main point is really just that we have to think creatively, move on and do more action. The Christian People's Party was more solar when we fought through the Sex Purchases Act in its time that the law alone is not enough. The law is an important step, but it is among other things. social measures that matter, e.g.: voluntary organisations fighting to help women out of prostitution. This debate is not over today. It is not long before the Storting can discuss modern slavery again, because the Christian People's Party has a Document 8 proposal that is under consideration in the Committee. It's in there too, among other things. a proposal for a period of reflection on which the representative, Mr Dahl, was involved. I thank you for today's debate and hope for an equally good debate, with several concrete measures that can be adopted later in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2876	Like the representative, Ropstad, I want to start by thanking you for the debate and all the recordings. The stories of girls – mostly – coming here to the country as modern slaves, are heartbreaking. The ROSA project is probably a part that knows about it. It started in 2005 to provide assistance and protection to girls at risk of trafficking in human beings. On their websites is a web exhibition called Women in ROSA. There, eleven women from ten different countries tell about their families, childhood, youth and what made them end up in crisis centres in Norway. Eva, Monica, Nina, Aida, Hanna, Setare, Anne, Laila, Vera, Nadia and Mona. I recommend people to go in and watch that web exhibition, because I think there are few who are really aware or able to imagine that there are people who live on what cannot be referred to as anything other than slave contracts in Norway, and who are forced to sell themselves to pay off debts to traffickers, and who do not dare to break out of fear of reprisals, either to themselves or to the families at home. Anne is one of those who says, "We were two girls and more men going north. On the way to Norway, we girls were used as a means of payment for men we spent the night at. Here in the country we met again some of my friends and I knew from the apartment, they were here to steal. Hallicene had contact with Norwegian men who came and took pictures of us, and put advertisements in SundaySunday. Several customers came after they changed our age from twenty to eighteen." The continuation of this story is not suitable from the Stockholm pulpit, but I am pleased that the debate has been taken, and reassured by the Minister of Justice's reply. I feel that this is an area where there is a lot of good will, but also disagreement. For my part, I am convinced that getting into the market is an essential part of combating prostitution. There's a disagreement in this room. Yes, it is reported that the market has become tougher. It's a bad thing to hear about, but it happens because customers have gotten fewer, and it's actually a sign that the law works. But I'm at least as clear that the Sex Purchases Act must be followed by proper action against the prostitutes. Several have been in the reflection period. The period of reflection must have real content if it is to make sense. Proper judicial procedures where serious action is taken and heard are another measure. Measures that help prostitutes to acquire other skills are an area in which, among other things: The ROSA project is doing a lot of good work. Nadheim is another place that's doing this. These are measures to get people to work. We have to apply the full range of instruments if we're to succeed. Again: Thank you for the debate, and I look forward to the debate on the draft representative to which Mr Ropstad refers. It is good that there are several parties on the Stortinget that take this issue seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2896	I too would like to thank you for an absolutely incredible debate, a very good debate. I would also like to thank the Minister of Justice for a thorough answer and just bring forward two things that she raised. One is that Norway has funded a United Nations study on money from criminal activities, including trafficking in human beings, and I want to point out what several others have said about following the flow of money and closing tax havens. The other thing I noticed that was important was that you have to keep considering whether the law is up to date. Penalties must always reflect, for example: how contact between the customer and the victim, i.e. customer and prostitute, takes place, and that new technology is becoming more and more advanced. I think that was also very interesting about what the Minister of Justice said. I fully agree with Trine Skei Grande that we must ensure that the police protect the girls, i.e. the prostitutes, on the streets and elsewhere. I myself know stories where the girls were harassed, while customers were allowed to continue driving. Of course, that doesn't have to happen. But I totally disagree with Trine Skei Grande when she talks about the Sex Purchases Act, because we also have to dry out the market, make sure fewer people buy sex, make sure it's not cool for young guys to buy sex. It's the market that creates prostitution. That's why the Sex Purchases Act is so important. It's also a normative law that's supposed to work a little bit in the longer term. So to André Oktay Dahl: Of course, the representative Oktay Dahl is right when he says that there are also boys who are being traded and prostituted. Everything I said in my first post about prostitutes who have major physical injuries, which are traumatized, which are severely downgraded, also applies to young boys, not least to small boys, and we know that there is also a place here. So even though most prostitutes are women, we find young boys who are victims, and I'll again stress that whores often have a more brutal sex behavior when they buy sex, than when they go home to roommates or spouses. So finally, Karin Andersen addresses a problem that is one of the most grotesque things we know about, organ donation. It is also true that prostitutes who have been trafficked in human beings, when they are worn out, are used for just organ donation.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2909	I am sure that the many examples of trafficking in human beings that are mentioned in the room today make an impression on more than me. We need to focus on new measures that can also strengthen efforts to combat trafficking in human beings and reduce prostitution. There are several who have asked how to assess Norwegian efforts and who have also mentioned the Council of Europe. It may be interesting to note that Norway has ratified the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings. We were also a driving force in the efforts to establish and operate the body of experts that bears the ringing name GRETA, which monitors the implementation of the Council of Europe Convention by the Member States. GRETA launched its first evaluation of Norway last year. The report on Norway is published on the Council of Europe websites this week and will provide good advice on the further development of Norwegian measures to combat trafficking in human beings. The report points out that Norway has taken a number of important steps to prevent and combat trafficking in human beings. It highlights in particular our action plans, cross-ministerial cooperation and the establishment of the Coordination Unit for Victims of Trafficking in Human Beings. Then GRETA also makes recommendations and addresses criticisms in different areas. Further training of all actors involved is recommended. In particular, the identification and follow-up of potential victims of trafficking in human beings should be prioritised in the training. The report also calls for a more active approach to the work against trafficking in human beings by children, including the Roma. Norway is boasted that the identification of victims of trafficking can be made by a wide range of actors, but there are no clearer procedures for such identification and a formalised national system for the organisation of assistance to victims. I mention these examples, because here we get good suggestions that we want to take with us in the further work, along with the input that has been made in the debate today. We also need to look at this in a broader perspective. There have been several examples of how we need to focus on the cash flows. Legal proposals relating to witness protection, which is right on the corner, as well as proposals for changes to the Mafia paragraph, have also been mentioned, and we have strengthened international police cooperation, where, with the Schengen Information System, version II, which aired on 9 April, we have a completely different and stronger system to combat frontier-free crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2924	Debates of the European Parliament 7, 8 and 9 are over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2940	Work is the very foundation of our welfare model and the key to combating poverty and social distress. Overall, unemployment is low in Norway, as is the case in the other European countries, but for those with disabilities, the opposite is true. From January 2006 to January this year, the number of people with disabilities has increased from 153 to 211 to 190. In September 2006, there were 61,700 on measures, while in January 2013 there were only 55,703 people. This means that in 2006 they got approx. 40 pst. of those with reduced ability to work, this figure fell to about 26 pst in 2013. Some of the increase in the number of people without work is due to the removal of temporary unemployment, but the point is that there are fewer people getting help and waiting time increases. That's not good. The Christian People's Party has therefore invested money to increase its efforts in the last alternative budgets. More than a year ago, the Brofoss Committee delivered its NOU on labour-oriented measures. The Christian People's Party, together with the opposition, has asked the government to come to Stortinget with a big message following the NOU. We need a comprehensive overview of labour market supply and a political debate on the way forward. The government has not yet wanted this, as I see it, but it is uncertain why. State Secretary Norvald Mo said at the NHO trade conference on 20 March this year that the Council of State had signaled to Stortinget that she would come to Stortinget with a follow-up to matters and issues from the Brofoss Committee. But we in Stortinget don't know when or how this is going to happen. We want very strongly to get a complete follow-up. It's urgent, not least because we also have great challenges in waiting times. According to the management companies, it takes two to three years from being ill-reported until action is taken. It's not sustainable, especially when we know that early action is absolutely crucial. It should also be mentioned that the Riksrevision has highlighted major differences in the efficient use of resources in Nav. The potential for improvement is high. Cooperation between the public sector and the response apparatus needs to be improved. In this work, it is essential that Nav carry out good job performance assessments and disseminate the individual user for proper action. It is obvious that Nav has a job to do in terms of work performance assessments, as the evaluation from Proba also showed. The Brofoss Committee had a broad mandate, and there were great expectations of the work. The selection is divided into its setting. The main reason for this disagreement was the extent to which normal working life would be used in the measures, whether Nav would produce its own services or reinvent its order role, etc. The committee presented three different models for the future organisation of work and organisation of work. Model 1 is based on the competence and organisation of today's growth and return companies. Model 2 gives Nav more responsibility and is the most radical, by being based on the purchase of private players through increased outsourcing. It is also proposed that the actors should be able to make a profit. Model 3 is between models 1 and 2. Signals that Nav has entered into service or is in the process of using Model 2, which means the launch of competition and the risk of losing the competences that have been built up today, are very alarming. From the Christian People's Party we want to signal that model 1 in the Brofoss range seems to be the best solution. It addresses many of the challenges ahead of us. A lifting of the action thresholds will eliminate the long waiting periods. This will increase the flow rate, which will allow more people to get the help they need more quickly. In addition, we believe that Model 1 will ensure that the real needs of the individual user are met. It states that reintroduction is as close to normal working life as possible, but without forgetting the need for many participants to qualify. Just as a greater part of the re-duction should be done in close association with normal working life, the Brofoss Committee was very concerned. Today we see that this happens to a much greater extent than before. Labour market enterprises work more outlyingly, which may not be noticed — or discovered — enough, as the statistics are actually quite old, and that there is very little research available. It is also important to stress that model 1 serves those user groups that cannot work in normal working life. When the same action organiser is to follow up users to a successful outcome without delay, it is to a greater extent avoided that they become throwballs in the system. The user can then have a disability or a job arranged without unnecessary attempts at action or waiting between them. The main challenge with the other two models is that model 2 is strongly in favour of and model 3 opens up to, increased tendering and competitive outsourcing. Tenders may be good where there is a limited task that is measurable in dollars and ears what the effect will be. But working with people thinks I have to deal with something different. The Christian People's Party is skeptical about the use of bids and competitive outsourcing as a central management tool when we move within the area of the return field. The main reason for this, as we see it, is that the services that each individual needs must be individually adapted. This individual adaptation we think is going to be demanding within a system based on competitive outsourcing. People who need assistance to get back to work or permanent organisation are not a homogeneous group, rather the opposite. Of course, I should not be so categorical as to say that tenders are a poor solution when it comes to adapting services to the individual. But I think it will be extremely demanding to get to, and administratively demanding resource. Policy also shows from other fields that price can be of great importance, and the quality may be less. The evaluation of the use of tenders will have to address the question of whether it will provide better services, or equally good services, to more than today. As the president probably hears, I doubt it. In addition, tendering processes undermine the possibility of good and close cooperation between Nav and the action organiser, which has proved to be crucial to getting people back to work. There is a lot of good work going on in the labour market. The NHO project Rings in the water is a good example in this way. Attractive enterprises do a good job, and voluntary actors such as Frtex, the Church's Bymition and the Church's Social Service also make a very good contribution to achieving the objectives of inclusion in the labour market. Growth and investment are actors with a high level of experience and competence in the labour market, and they are therefore a very important speaker in the debate on Norway's labour market policy. I constantly meet people who are out of work and who want to contribute what they can. Recently, the Dagsrevyen showed a report where it was pointed out that half of those who have epilepsy are illiterate, but that many of them want to be at work. The willingness to work for those with reduced working capacity is great, and unfortunately the major obstacles are encountered on the road. Lack of knowledge by employers about the measures available to include them in the labour market may be one of them. Wrong organisation and poor use of the opportunities that are present by both the Nav and the authorities are also perhaps as major obstacles. How more people are going to fit into working life will be our big question in the future, both because it makes sense for individuals to be allowed to be part of the working life, and because we need labour in the future. We have to make sure that everyone who can and has the opportunity gets to be involved and contribute. To know more about the individual user and what will work for different people, we also need more research in the field. In addition, Nav has to require performance and efficiency to ensure that resources are used in the best possible way. Labour market policy is important, and my concern today is not necessarily to say that the government has few measures and does not do anything, but that we need to see a whole in this work. We hope that the Council of State today will respond, preferably, that she will return with a big message in this area. Only then can we have a thorough debate, and the Stortinget can point the way forward, which can also give predictability to all parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e2974	The Brofoss Committee addresses a number of different questions. Some of these are relatively easy to find good answers to, while others we have to spend some more time on. I have been asked several times about the government's follow-up to the Brofoss Committee, and I have replied that during the year the government will come back with its assessments in an appropriate way. These questions will be discussed in more detail in a communication to the Stortinget on, inter alia, the issue of drug use. job-oriented measures. In many areas, the sample was in agreement with its recommendations. Several of these recommendations have already been followed up by the government: increased efforts on research and evaluation of measures for people with disabilities have already been followed up and increased follow-up in ordinary working life. The latter includes a new work placement methodology test. The committee asked the Ministry to further investigate the relationship with the public procurement and State aid legislation. The committee also considered that better systems should be developed to assess the quality of action. This will be followed up. The selection is also divided into its recommendations in some areas. These include: different perceptions of how far one should go in terms of increasing the use of ordinary activities as the arena of the employment-oriented assistance. There are also differing views on the extent to which the Employment and Welfare Act will provide services for those user groups currently active in pre-authorised action enterprises and the extent to which it will be opened up to actors other than those previously authorised action enterprises. There are different views of the sample on these issues summarised in these three models to which the representative Davay referred. Then the representative also asked if I had concluded on model 2. The answer is no. I have not tied myself up to any of these models, and I will not. I do not want to limit the follow-up of this case to three specific models. The overall objective is to find the best possible solutions overall for those outside the labour market. In my opinion, the specific models described in the Brofoss Committee's setting are subordinate to this. The Ministry of Labour also assesses the concrete proposals in the models and arguments surrounding them. On this basis, we will draw up concrete proposals. The representative, Mr Davøy, fears that voluntary and non-profit actors will be swept out of the market. I mean the opposite, because in today's system there are some ideal action organisers who cannot offer their services to Nav. Today’s starting point is that a large number of measures are reserved for recreational andgrowth holdings. In addition, a few NPISHs have escaped through an exceptional shelter. An example is the Fontenehuset, which is a gathering place for people with mental problems, where users themselves participate in the operation of the house. I aim to let more such ideal actors go. The review by the Ministry of State aid rules and public procurement legislation may indicate the need to make certain changes, including: is that the case if we are to release more actors – like the ideals, which we talked about instead. However, I do not want to open up commercial forces and in this way will mainly keep the good suppliers of measures we have today, along with other actors to be put into service. I'm not sure what Bavøy means that Nav already ‘has put into service’ model 2. In the consultation round, the Employment and Welfare Directorate delivered a comprehensive consultation opinion. As I perceive the core of this, the Employment and Welfare Directorate recommends the first increased use of ordinary working life as the arena for reintroduction. This means that users are more closely followed up in normal workplaces. Follow-up in normal working life is nothing new. We're also doing it to a significant extent today. A unanimous Brofoss committee wanted to increase the use of this methodology. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare also stresses that follow-up in normal working life should only take place where appropriate. There will still be a significant need for action in suitable sheltered environments for those who need it. In the future, investment firms and other action organisers will continue to have significant tasks, both by organising actions themselves and by following up on the ordinary life of the workforce. Indeed, many today do so in an excellent way — that the management companies enter and support those who are out in the ordinary working life. Secondly, the Directorate of Labour and Welfare wants to strengthen the follow-up of users who need it. Many former core tasks have been outsourced to external actors, including: due to the capacity problems encountered in Nav. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare writes that this causes Nav to lose important competences. As a pilot scheme, therefore, it is envisaged that the Employment and Welfare Act implements clarification and follow-up services to a greater extent under its own direction, rather than purchasing such services from others. This was mentioned in the budget proposal last autumn. It's doing a lot of good refurbishment work. Many people come out to work, and many people who need it get a screened offer. Nevertheless, I believe that we must be able to expect better results from the labour-oriented measures than we see today. At the same time, there are no simple answers to how we can do this. We listen to those who work with the measures of daily life. We also need to take into account the seriousness of the research and evaluation results available. There has been a lot of emphasis on the things the Brofoss committee disagreed on. The focus of the discussion may have been there. This is not surprising, as this is partly problems that are difficult to solve in a way that meets everyone's wishes and needs. I still think it's important to find out that there was agreement on a lot of the main lines. When an overall sample proposes that action participants be more integrated into normal working life, I think this could be the right way to go too many. There appears to be a broad consensus in the professional community that follow-up in ordinary businesses is a good return strategy to help people with mental health problems. This is known as a growing user group. At the same time, there will still be a need to provide work in a sheltered environment for many, not least those who need a permanent job.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3002	Thank you to the Council of State. I was actually a little calmed down after the statements of the Council of State, at least by large parts of what the Council of State said. I understand that the Council of State will come back with appropriate assessments. I know – it's been said before. I also realized that the answer was actually yes, that there is a big message coming – perhaps a slightly wider one than just the follow-up to the Brofoss selection. But just as fully the proposals from there will be accepted, and it would have been all right if the Council of State confirmed my understanding of it. It is also positive that the Council of State has not concluded on any model. It is possible that the Council of State believes that it might rather be concluded that one of these three models will be used. There are some labour market enterprises that have arranged for the model we have today to be very good. There is absolutely no disagreement that follow-up in ordinary activities, i.e. in the usual workplaces, is also important. We see that it will provide a very good development for some of the companies that work today. Then, of course, we will always need more shielding for some. The fact that several ideals are going to get rid of, I think are very positive signals. Then I am also satisfied with such a clear attitude from the Council of State that one does not want commercialisation. We have received some enquiries from some of the labour market companies about a concern related to this – good old labour market enterprises that are afraid that one of these models, model 2 or 3, will be put into service. Signals have come from there when Nav seems to be adding more and more for model 2, and many of them have realized that Nav wants model 2. My question to the Council of State is also: What powers does Nav now have, before we get a message to Stortinget, to begin to facilitate perhaps some of the models in the Brofoss Committee's position? All in all, I am very pleased and hope that we get a good debate. It seems like maybe we're very much in agreement, the Council of State and I, about a lot of what's going to happen in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3015	What Nav is working on today, including: increased emphasis on research, increased emphasis on quality and follow-up to the position of the Brofoss Committee. They also have attempts at a new method of outsourcing in the ordinary working life. We also have attempts now, in the state budget for the current year, with wage subsidies in the labour market. So something's already followed up. What is our challenge is the review of State aid law. Today, it is up to the management companies to deliver only part of the measures. If we are to let other ideal actors in, we need to look at this state aid code. Now it looks like we have to make some changes. We do not want to facilitate commercialisation in this area, but it needs to be amended in this legislation to comply with the law on public acquisitions. That's what we're going to get back to Stortinget with. I agree with the representative Davøy that those who are out of work today are increasingly different. Therefore, there is a need for different types of action. Some people need reintroduction in screened operations. Others need the measures that the management company and others have in normal working life. Others need follow-up in Nav, and others, who may have mental disorders, need help from the Fontenehuset. The Tyril Foundation is also an actor who has wanted to contribute as part of his rehabilitation work. So there's a part that's out of work, and they think I need a variety of measures. That's why I think it's wrong to conclude with a special model, because I think we should help people who are out of work, are the different measures that have to be assessed. So I hope we can get a good discussion here today, and I look forward to a good discussion in Stortinget when we present a message about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3026	The working party maintains a clear line of work and works equally clearly for a working life that is to be accessible to all. The exposure to good measures for people with challenges in their working life is high. It's an important matter the interpellant takes up, and I'm very happy that the representative Davøy was reassured by the government's policy. She could be in many areas, we're going in the right direction in several areas. It is very good that the government has taken this into account, and that we have received NOU 2012: 6 labour-oriented measures, which were also referred to by the Council of State and the interpellant. This discusses different ways of organising, researching and exercising the services themselves. During the preparations for a conference in Bodø recently, I thought about what it was like before. When I grew up in My Hospital, there was a working room there, and before it was gardening and farm work that was employment. My first place of study was Kongsgårdheimen, Kongsgård incarcerated it at that time. There was the workroom that was the main content and the only activity for those who lived there. It's moving forward. This was in the 1960s and 1970s. We are now going to make arrangements for our time, but the experience I have with me is nevertheless important because it shows how difficult it is to see the contemporary through the eyes of the present. That is why, when we are going to develop new measures, we need to be sure that there are good measures that will take all. The government is very clear that we are not going to have commercialization of this field. There is something that the representative Davøy can also take with him – that it is very good for other policy areas as well. We have also taken several measures. We've got VTA on our own budget line, we've increased the number of action areas, and we're going to increase the use of NPISHs, as the Council of State stressed. Strengthening quality is important. There we see that some of the labour market measures themselves have gone a long way in creating quality indicators for the service. I am also disappointed that there were no more concrete measures in the Brofoss Committee's position. At the same time, it shows that consensus is not large, and it indicates that there is a need for much more coordinated action to move forward in a direction that everyone can join. We need to find the best solutions, and then we need more cooperation with more actors. I agree with the Council when she says that it is not the models that are most important, but the content. The national assembly of the Labour Party stated that both hubs and guidance companies should play an important role in the future, while increasing the use of ordinary working life. It's not either–or, it's both–and. The most important thing is to have measures planned and designed in close and close cooperation between those concerned, namely between the recipients and their relatives. I think it's a timely reminder from the Council of State when she tells me that those who are going to use these measures are very diverse. There is no uniform group for which action should be taken. If we are to succeed, the recipients and organisations must have real opportunities to influence and design future solutions. If we are to increase the possibilities of work, we also need to increase the possibilities of acquiring knowledge. I think the best solution will have to be designed at the intersection of health, education, Nav, business, labour market enterprises and municipalities. Individual resources should be given priority over diagnosis and limitations. In order to develop the best methods, more people need to cooperate better. The private sector, especially in South Africa, works together in networks and clusters, and I think it can be a good method to use when developing new measures for people who need to organize their working life. Making clusters where one can learn from each other's positive experiences, and where one can share good and useful experiences and learning, I think is a method that has a lot to do. Fortunately, the time for working rooms and time for meaningless employment is over. We are to create good jobs to reconcile the needs of individuals for the organisation of tasks and employment that provide mastery, positive experiences and the development of skills and facilities. I attend the follow-up by lines of the Council of State: quality, close follow-up, use of ordinary and organised jobs based on the individual's assumptions and needs – and not least actions that draw on what those who need them and who want to work through them believe.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3047	I would like to thank the interpellant for asking for a notification and a possible decision. The most important thing is to make sure that more people are helped and that one gets more in work and fewer in social security. If you are going to get more people to work, it is absolutely crucial that you have a high level of competence that can help you, you have skills and you are a person who wants to see the individual, you can see the talent of the individual and you can be the good career guidance teacher. This competence is currently available in many of the reconnaissance companies. We don't say that all the reintroduction companies are good, many can probably be better. At the same time, the industry needs to be more responsive to business needs while being even more focused on results. With that, I mean to have a lot of attention on results in terms of how many people are able to get back to work, and who are staying there – not just measuring how many people have had on measures. Model 1 is the model that appeals most to the Progress Party. This model is based on the expertise currently available in the reintroduction industry. We're talking here about an industry that has 40 years of expertise and experience in helping people get back to work. At a time when more and more people are going to social security, we can't afford to gamble with this competence, he has to go crazy and get better. The Progress Party demands, and has, at several levels, made proposals and addressed them in the Question Time, that we need to have our own single programming message on future labour market policies. Why? Both to get a holistic overview of the status, challenges and not least of how a better one can be closed in achieving the main tasks of getting more involved. Such a notification should also address a comprehensive review of the level of measures and not least the need for action. It should also focus on, and look at, how one can finance the services in the future. The role of the screen activities today and in the future should also be an important theme. The effectiveness and simplification of drug use, i.e. the number of interventions, is also an important theme that speaks for a big message – how to ensure better interaction between labour market enterprises and the ordinary economy. We are for ordinary business to have a greater role than the arena to qualify human beings. These are just a few of many important moments that confirm that you need a big message. One of the main challenges, for example: Model 2 is that Nav should to a much greater extent be both the provider and the performer of the service, which may be a bit wrong. Nav should reindeer cultivate his capacity to become an extremely good orderer. It seems that the government is adding up a piece and split treatment of the Brofoss selection. This is something the Progress Party will strongly warn against, even if we got some positiveness from the Council of State here today. I thank you for that. Why do we mean this? This will cause changes to be made piece by piece and division. One misses the wholeness, and it is then easy that the systems become even more bureaucratic and fragmented. This will not benefit those who are going to qualify people back to work, and at least not for the individual person who needs help. The Progress Party believes there is a need for more action places. Therefore, every year we have proposed increasing the number of action sites in our alternative state budget. This applies to both ordinary action spaces and VTA. The Progress Party sees a clear need to change and simplify the action structure. Today we have between 55 and 60 different measures. It is not surprising that Nav does not have an overview of all of them, and that anyone can get lost in the action disc. That is why we have also proposed that one should have a review of the structure of measures with the main objective of simplifying and red tape. I'm not going to say what's the right number of actions here, but I think you can round down well – maybe to a number under ten.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3064	I would also like to thank you for the interpellation. This is an important theme. We use approx. 8 B.C.E. kr in action places in the year, and the results we get back, are in some cases good, in others, in some cases unknown and in others too bad. There are some things that are missing in this field, and there are some things that are completely obvious. The first is clarity and clarity. We simply lack some information. We know, for example. not exactly how long the waiting time is for action. We do not know how long the waiting period is between measures. This has been requested for several years, but has not arrived. We also do not know exactly who is being put into action where, and how many measures they will be given. One of the first things I heard when I came into a Nav office after I joined the Labour and Social Committee was the concept of ‘measures’, i.e. people who go from action to action, but never get out of the action system. But we have a way of measuring and controlling that -- to put it a little bit on the head -- is more concerned with how many people are in action at all times, that is, how many resources we spend, instead of being concerned about what the measures actually lead to, and how many people we get into work. When you try to look at the results — and those results are not the easiest to find in the ministry, you have to go to the NHO’s recruitment organisation to find them — you can see that, for example: on a part of the dissemination measures, there are staggering differences between the different counties as to how many they are able to pass on to work. There may, of course, be differences in local labour markets, and there may be differences in the users you get in, and I have even been told that there is a difference in how you perceive some of the communication measures from state to state, but nevertheless it is so that in the worst countries you can get about. two out of ten are passed on to work and education, while in the best countries around eight out of ten are able to be communicated. That's a very big difference. Uncertainty has now been created across the whole sector. Uncertainty can be good in itself if it means renewal, and you get a clear and clear message about what's going to happen next, but that hasn't happened. The NOU, as the representative Henriksen said, was good at coming, contains three different orientations for the sector, not from the political or from the department and the red-greens, but some sort of indication of the political direction you are looking at, which creates a great deal of uncertainty in the sector. This isn't something the Right or the Opposition thinks about, you can go out to the sector and ask. It is nice that the Council of State should come back to the Storting in an appropriate way, but what the sector needs is a big message, a clear political signal. In that big message, it should be: consider whether the requirements from Nav to the action providers are rigorously assessed as to what should be the sanctions against establishments that are unable to deliver good enough results year after year to assess the way in which information is obtained and what information is collected to assess whether measures to contribute to dissemination should be paid better, rewarded better than today, assess whether it is too bureaucratic and complicated for companies to look at 35, 40 or 31 different measures to try to push people into, and whether, instead, a more flexible approach with well-funded, wide-ranging action boxes should be available to them, providing an opportunity to follow them up as a starting point. Of course, the big question is outsourcing or not. Then it is always good to remember that there has been one proposal for the outsourcing of the screened sector in the last eight years, and that proposal came from a Labour Party State Council. For the Right, competitive outsourcing is not an end in itself. There are also some disadvantages in trying to break up professional environments and expose them to competition. What must be quite clear is that if the sector does not deliver better than today for them. 8 B.C.E. the taxpayers’ money it spends cannot be excluded that competitive outsourcing will also be an instrument, but it would be because the other instruments do not work.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3093	I would like to thank the inter-pellant, and the Council of State for clarifying what is the Government's intention of what we are now going to go through, and for the fact that the commercialisation of reintroduction work is not a political wish. I'm very happy about that, because there's uncertainty throughout the field, and there's a need to clarify it. I would also like to say to the interpellant that I would like her to take with her the principle attitude towards competitive outsourcing that she puts in her interpellation, to this city, which commercialises entirely central welfare tasks, as central as reintroduction. For SV, it is important that welfare tasks are not put out to competition and that the public seas have to perform the tasks or conclude contracts with voluntary and non-profit organisations for such tasks. In that case, it is important to have quality contracts, so that the competence to build up remains in public service. We do not want more elements of tenders, but we want a broad cooperation where all those who want to contribute and who can reinvigorate cooperate closely with normal working life. It's happening in the industry today. I would warn those who call for a strong pooling of measures. It's true that there are many, but if you do, you end up with tenders throughout the industry. I would therefore ask those who are taking the floor to think about it. There are several organisations and foundations that operate with good reintroduction, as well as the reintroduction industry. It is the Fontenehuset – which was mentioned, the Pub project, social entrepreneurs and mental health with user-driven centres, and these are good examples of actors with which we need to cooperate, and find solutions together. The recruitment companies are publicly owned companies, and I have been to one of them today, in Bergen. I've been to that hotel called Klosterhagen, which is run by a tour operator in Bergen – a great place. They have people who have been drug addicts, or who have been in prostitution, trained as workers, and several of them now go on training either as a cook, a waitress, or in other disciplines – a fantastic story. They also have such a wide range of measures that they are able to chain the measures, as we are talking about now. I have been working on this field since 1997, so it is the reintroduction industry that has taken the initiatives for quality assurance, EQUAS approval. I have worked a lot with learning and writing difficulties especially and learning difficulties otherwise, and I have experienced that the industry has been very responsive, and that it has established the learning network to meet this. In recent times, we have been very much in favour of closer cooperation betweenreduction actors and ordinary enterprises. I feel that the industry is responsive, and that this way of working is much more widespread now than it was before. It is therefore important now that this is allowed to continue. In the opinion of the SV, the follow-up to the report of the Brofoss Committee should focus primarily on the main points: Some areas of action such as waiting time before and between measures reduce the quality of actions and the clearance of work, so that forces and money are used sensibly Training must have a greater place than it currently has – it is related to how the labour market is actually Tenders that are not desirable Contract forms must build up under, secure and use the skills and infrastructure built up with public money It must be ensured that non-profit cooperation can more effectively than at present enter into direct contracts with Nav without having to go through the management companies. This is a problem in the way contracts are entered into today, and it affects the Fontenehusets. Quality criteria and objectives must be set that take into account the variations in the challenges of different people in different parts of the country and at different stages of life, which ensure that we build up competence at Nav and at the cooperation partners, so that we do not risk losing this competence in a possible new bidding round where this actually risks disappearing if we use that technique.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3130	I would like to thank the interpellant for a very important theme. There are over 200,000 people with disabilities, of whom 120,000 have a clear need for job-oriented measures. Pre-authorised action enterprises have an important role to play. They have worked over the past 30 to 40 years. There are about 400 such enterprises, and they have a budget of 3.3 billion. kr. It is quite obvious that in this area, as in other areas, we need a review in order to achieve a more accurate and better target. I often use the words roots and wings – anchoring and innovation. One must be dynamic all the time. One must also be dynamic in this area, and I therefore believe that the uncertainty created around what the Council of State has done is unreasonable. Because what the Council of State has said here today does not come as a surprise to me – that is the line I have perceived that the Council of State has been in for the whole time. We can share the labour-oriented measures in ordinary enterprises, pre-approved and pre-approved action enterprises participating in the tendering process. The largest group that needs to work is people who have reduced working capacity as a result of mental disorders, muscle or skeletal disorders, and time-limited wage subsidies and working practices in the ordinary enterprise are very important for them. I would like to stress that there are many more social employers than those who have the opportunity to play such a role today. What I would also like to stress is that there are very many value-conservative employers who have a perspective far beyond making the most money in the short term, which in many respects feel a social responsibility. With regard to the least developed, it is clear that there are the most important pre-approved action enterprises. Timeless arrangements for such people are incredibly important, and therefore, in the opinion of the Centre Party, several permanent organised jobs are needed. Not least, there is a need for much better planning for those who have different types of disability, who leave school, and who need a seamless transition to permanent work. So this permanent organized work in the screened business is the solution for those who need the most follow-up in everyday life. All those with a certain capacity for work should, in principle, be given the opportunity to find their place in the ordinary working life, in which case some form of adapted, supported or subsidised work in the ordinary working life should always be the first choice. In the context of the Brofoss Committee, questions have been asked about the extent to which it is desirable and possible to increase the use of ordinary activities as the arena of labour-oriented assistance. According to the assessment of the Centre Party, there is a need and possibility for much more here – not least within the term ‘temporary salary’. There are a number of counter-conceptions, including: by the Ministry of Finance, on this. There are counter-conceptions that there is a cost overload from the employer to the government, and that there is a displacement of some others, who are not part of the scheme, in the ordinary working life. I have to admit, these are dilemmas. There are dilemmas in this scheme as in other schemes, but with the modest amount of temporary wage subsidies currently available, the dilemma is not so pressing – other than that there is a large group that will not otherwise be able to participate in ordinary working life – so that one can benefit from increasing that part of employment-oriented assistance. When it comes to the second question, to what extent the Employment and Welfare Act should provide services, I cannot see that it is appropriate. The municipal owned management companies do a very good job, and this is a participation that one gets to local, which is very important. With regard to the extent to which actors other than pre-authorised action companies are to be opened up, I agree with the Council of State – one may increase in the non-profit sector, but not go into commercial arrangements. In the end, I think what is attached to the Public Acquisitions Act and the EEA Agreement is too small in this case. I guess that's what really led to the discussion where both the Right Party and the Advance Party have become skeptics. And then you have to say it in plain words: it is the EEA agreement that is the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3152	First, I have to be allowed to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic, and in the same sentence I added that I thought today we were going to discuss the big news from the Brofoss Committee. For we were the many who followed excitedly when the sample came with its report, the NOU, and I must say it's surprising that it hasn't come any further than it is today. Because this is a hugely important area, and it's a hugely expensive area – for the individual, who doesn't get the help he needs, and for society, who uses huge sums that we don't get enough out of. I noticed the statements and answers of the Council of State, and I felt it positive. It is important that a big message comes, even if it is legally late – but the positive thing in it is that it can be a KRF state council that will be the one to present it and that will write the message! We need a message to clarify the way forward. I think the interpellant is interested in something very central when she points to the concerns that have arisen. We know very well what Nav has said in his hearing opinion, and know what direction Nav wants. The signal that Nav wants to take over more is, in my opinion, a wrong direction, but it is important that it is politically directed, and therefore I have to ask the Council to clarify that Nav has not yet received the possible room for action that Nav wants. For Nav to be a good order. They shall have good evaluation and clarification and ensure that those in need of assistance receive it early, as early as possible, and that they are properly assisted, that they take appropriate action. The message must also take up time. As others have said, how long must you wait before you get help? After all, we are all aware that early efforts may be the most important factor in succeeding in helping people back to work, or in preventing one from falling out of work at all. And the fact that one does not have an overview of how long it is before one comes to action, nor between measures, I am mildly surprised that nothing still matters. Therefore, at least a notification has to make clear requirements as to what a wish is. What is the objective of the Council of State? How early should help come? Or, if applicable, how long is it acceptable to wait before you receive help? The same is true of the representative of Røe Isaksen, whom he has been concerned about for a long time — the quality of the measures. And what we've had discussions about in this room before -- the difference between the states. We have a lot to learn from those who succeed best. I think that's a good attitude, that one can actually see that there are some who succeed better than others. The businesses we're talking about are modern, and someone's come very far. I think we have to be willing to set these requirements to the result, so that we actually prioritize the companies that succeed best – and then someone actually downgrades. At the same time, we have to be very aware that there are differences between people, and there are differences in areas, because it is demanding to succeed in rehabilitating and getting people back to work. But to be clear that quality is important, I am absolutely sure is necessary. I also think there have been good signals in the debate on flexibility in measures and fewer measures, and it is also interesting to see some visions for the way forward. People must not stand in line because one pot or because funds for one action have been used up, when one might have money left on another. The important thing is that the individual gets the help that you need. Because we have to be able to see individuals, see that we're different and see that we have different needs. I have a goal that we should reduce the number of response sites, that we should let go of the response companies because the workforce is able to integrate and manage to catch up with those on the way out, because that must be the goal. But we're not there yet, and then these companies and these places of action are absolutely necessary to succeed. So I am glad that the Council of State is clear that a message will be received, so at least the work on the message can begin – before anyone else will present it. But I want that message to have visions to point out what you want with the field, and that it's playing along with all the good feedback companies we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3171	Thank you to everyone who has taken part in the debate. I think it has been a very good debate, and if the Brofoss committee was very disagreeable and divided in its position in the NOU, there are at least a lot of measures here, and a lot of discussions that suggest that there is actually a good deal of consensus in this room about a part that should be followed up further. There is also a great deal of impatience on behalf of people with disabilities, who we want to get more quickly back into action. The representative Lundtigen said to him that it was the council that came here, not surprising at all. He may have a little more contact with the state council as between them than the others have. If it wasn't surprising for me, it was at least clarifying. That's good, and I think it'll be for others too. I also agree with the representative, Mr Isaksen, that it has actually created an uncertainty. You can agree or disagree with it, but when so many people contact and say that they are unsure about how this is going to be, and if we can speed up that it will be a big message and in any way find out what's going on, it's clear that then you often think the worst thing or maybe you're afraid of what you don't want is going to be a reality. In this way, the clarification we have received today is good: that there is a follow-up and a message. I just want to mention a few points that have been raised by others, this with simplification of measures. I think there is absolutely a need for simplification and a review of the measures. There are too many measures, I think. They are inconclusive, and if there is at all a human being in this country who has an overview of all the measures, I wonder a little bit about. At least I don't know any of them. The speed of action is crucial. There are too many people waiting between each measure, and the other day we read in Today's Business that, in many cases, two years went by from disease to the first action. When we know that unemployment benefit only lasts for four years, I'm afraid of what can happen in a year's time, when the first have been four years of work relief and perhaps have waited several years before they started. The last thing I want to mention is this that more people have been involved in, including the Council of State, about research and more knowledge. There is no doubt that we need a greater knowledge of the impact of the actions we have, more than just counting measures, increasing the number of actions or counting the number of actions that come about. We need to know the effect better and get a lot more research. The very last thing I want to mention is that I am happy that we are getting a message, and I hope that there will be a comprehensive review of the entire labour market policy, and not least the entire Brofoss committee and follow-up there, so that we can decide on the best measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3188	I want to thank the interpellant for a very good discussion. Yeah, there's a big message coming. It's not going to answer every question, but it's going to say something about the direction we're going to go in. It's not going to say that Nav should only be an order, because it's not Nav today either. We have the unemployed, who are organized through Nav and have received very good evaluation, and some of the purpose of the whole Nav reform was that there should be resources to be released to follow up many of them that are out of the way in the labour market. Nav shall have an important role, together withrepresentatives, non-profit actors and others. Then there's a discussion about the commercialization of the field. I don't want to. However, there are also many good action organisers who are neither a management company nor a voluntary organisation. So I'm going to think about it, for example. on Green Work, and I'm thinking about the collaboration with Telenor, so there's a lot of people doing an important job here. So it is important to simplify the structure of measures, because there are a lot of measures. But some of those measures have come about through the IA Agreement, and we don't want to change them without the social partners involved. We are going to review the experience of the IA agreement so far in the summer, in cooperation with the social partners. Then we will start negotiations on a new IA agreement for the autumn. Some of those measures will then be the subject of negotiations with the social partners. It is not relevant for me to come to Stortinget with a message where I have an overall structure of measures that I am stepping down over the ears of the social partners, because some have to negotiate there to get ownership of this, and the parties have a very large ownership relationship with the IA agreement. Then I am pleased that the representative of the Red Isaacs is so concerned about the quality of the measures, because some wait too long for action – yes – and others go for a long time on measures that have not been wanted. There are different opinions about how to measure this, because if you only have payments for those who are the most good at getting people out of work, we are at risk of these companies picking only those workers who are closest to the labour market. It is complicated to get good systems that allow us to get more out of work, but that ‘locking effect’ is a problem for people who do not get out of work, we also have to address. So yes, we get a message about a direction. It won't give all the answers, but some answers on how to proceed. I thank you again for a good discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3201	That being the case, it is no. 10 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3216	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3230	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3244	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3258	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3272	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3278	The Stortinget is then ready to vote on the matters on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3286	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposals No. 2 and 3, by Mr Solvik-Olsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on the proposals Nos. 4 and 5, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 4 and 5, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to prepare an analysis addressing the financial risk to Norway related to ‘non-combustible’ carbon.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an overview of expected gas exports if Europe succeeds in its climate policy and energy conversion.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3322	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote its own case on how to reduce the export of welfare benefits and how to design welfare benefits in order to ensure the development of income for those who are unable to participate in the labour market but who at the same time take into account the increase in labour migration.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the creation of a labour market commission to look at how more labour can be created, while respecting the principle of a safe and family-friendly working life and, inter alia, making proposals to increase the proportion of full-time jobs in the short and long term, ensuring that the needs of enterprises are met, while allowing working hours to be better adapted to the individual employee.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3354	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for good indicators of productivity growth in the public sector and to present the conclusions to the Storting appropriately.’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3385	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward in total. It's proposal No Ib Thomsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left Proposal No. 1 is included in the setting, while proposal No. 2 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. Two, from the left. The proposal reads: «Prop. [[2012-2013]] 65 L The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3414	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to make concrete proposals for the legal protection of freedom of expression and anonymity on the Internet.» The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3619	The Committee shall be consulted first on the position of the Committee in Section 56a. Right and left have announced that they will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3634	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee on the other paragraphs of I and II. The left has announced that they will vote against it. The voting boards indicated that 81 votes were cast in favour and 1 voted against. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 21.40.41]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3645	The President will show that it is mandatory to vote. It's quite obvious that there's someone who hasn't voted. Let's do the voting again.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3657	So we're going to vote over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3667	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3675	During the debate, the representative Dagrun Eriksen put forward four proposals on behalf of the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a change in the foreign policy to make it clear that the best interests of the child need to be given greater emphasis in terms of immigration regulation, in accordance with Norway’s human rights obligations and otherwise in line with the intentions of the Foreign Act.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to clarify how the best assessment of the child’s best performance is to be carried out.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess whether the content of the child’s best estimate is in line with international and national commitments.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government is asked to review current practices in asylum cases involving children, where the practice of the provisions of the Foreign Affairs Act is viewed against the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3719	During the debate, Ulf Leirstein put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked immediately to facilitate the analysis of DNA by several accredited actors in criminal matters with a view to achieving increased legal certainty and quality in justice.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3785	The Committee shall be consulted on the position of the Committee pursuant to the new third paragraph of Section 188. The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3800	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on II and III. The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3814	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The left has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e3832	During the debate, Mrs Leirstein put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e5226	The Committee shall then vote for the position of I, the remainder of II and III to XII.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e5236	It is then voted over the title of the law and the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e5246	The legislative decision will be set up for second treatment at a later meeting in Stortinget. In Case No: There is no voting theme between 7 and 10. Voting in Case No 11–15
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e5254	All of these matters are the second reading of the law. The President proposes that matters be dealt with collectively, and expects to have the House's approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There are no proposals for comment on the legislative decisions from Act 46 until Act 50, and the Bill of the Stortinge has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-04-29.ana.ud170e5565	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
