ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e26	The representative of Mr Morten Höglund, in charge of the Parliamentary Arctic Cooperation Delegation, was asked to attend a conference in Bodø on 20 and 21 March. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Akershus County, Tone Liljeroth, currently has parental leave and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the leave of the representative Morten Højlund. The representative of the goods, Tom Staahle, is proposed to meet during the period of leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Tom Staahle is present and will take the seat. The representative, Robert Eriksson, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e46	I have, on behalf of the representatives of Vigdis Giltun, Laila Marie Reiertsen and myself, the pleasure of making representation proposals that current old-age pensions are regulated in line with wage developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e51	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e63	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e70	From various reports over a long period of time, large maintenance kits have been documented in different parts of Norway. We know about the maintenance run on the national and county roads. We know that there are large afterflows in the case of water pipes and drain pipes. We know that large parts of the public building stock require large investments to be upgraded, and it is also known that there are challenges in hospitals. I addressed this issue to the National Government of the Advance Party a couple of weeks ago, and the Labour Party met with me saying that I was painting the situation black. Yesterday we were able to hear from the Dagsrevyen that the Medical Association was out and asked for a state investment package to bring back the huge maintenance run at the country's hospital. The medical association estimated this only for hospitals — and they thought it was about building stock, equipment shortages and a number of other conditions — to 70 billion. kr. Then, of course, it is close to asking the Prime Minister whether he and the Labour Party believe that it is also black-painting the situation, or whether he is about to start taking seriously the fact that these maintenance bills have been pushed ahead for very many years, despite the fact that it means that the bills are getting higher and higher, and that it is ultimately the taxpayers who are going to finance it. The Health Minister commented on this to Dagsrevyen yesterday, and his answer to this was that hospitals had to give better priority. It doesn't matter anything but that hospitals either have to give priority to treating patients or getting painted walls, to put it a little figuratively. But he said that he would support him under the hospitals. My question to the Prime Minister is: What does the government mean that hospitals need priority, but that it should support them under the hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e79	It is absolutely vital for a good health service that we not only have skilled doctors and health professionals, but that we also have good equipment and good buildings. It was also one of the reasons why both the Workers' Party and the Advance Party supported the new hospital system that we put in place in 2001, where we made the hospitals more independent, where the state took over responsibility – so we did not have 20 different owners of hospitals in Norway, but got one owner, the state – and where we created a system where we transfer large sums from the Storting to the various health regions, which then have quite great freedom to assess whether to invest in it or that building, whether to spend money on operations or how to use them now. We simply believe that the people of the Health West are better at assessing what you get the most for than that we sit here in Oslo and decide on each local decision. It is decided in the regions and it is decided in the individual hospitals. The way in which hospitals are financed, that they receive large framework appropriations, also means that we now have a significantly better investment situation than we have had in many years in Norwegian hospitals. Hospitals are in financial balance for the first time. This means that they now have money to invest, and that means that there is now more investment in medical devices and ICT than ever before. The investments now made by hospitals will amount to about 16 billion over the next five years. kr. In comparison, the value of what we took over from the capital and equipment from the hospitals in 2002, was about 7 billion. kr. So there's a significant investment, and we're spending a lot of money on hospitals, but I'm not saying we're satisfied with the situation. That's exactly why we're making sure the hospitals get more money. Those who travel around Norwegian hospitals say that in many places it is very good. In other places, there are significant shortages — worn-out construction, poor equipment — and that is why we allocate more money to hospitals, so that they can invest more.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e88	The medical team leader's recommendation was absolutely clear: it had to put in place a government investment package to solve this gigantic 70-billion-dollar aftermath. kr, which means that hospitals must therefore give priority to treating patients or upgrading them. I remind the Prime Minister that there are also 270,000 people in treatment queues, so here it is not easy to prioritize, to say it carefully. Yes, the Progress Party supported the intentions in the conversion to a state takeover of the hospitals. However, we have always been clear that we need to put in place a better funding system, which primarily ensures operational resources for patient treatment, and which also provides the necessary funds for investment and upgrading building mass. My question to the Prime Minister is: Will the government meet the demand of the Medical Association for a state investment package to put in place new and modern equipment for the country's hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e97	We will meet the desire of many, including the Medical Association, to ensure that hospitals get even more money. We have significantly increased hospital appropriations, because we see that there is an increasing need. We also see the need for investment in equipment and buildings. We'll grant over 100 billion. kr, but we have a system where we say that there is quite a lot of freedom for the hospitals themselves to decide, because we think we actually get better health from not sitting in Oslo and earmarking all the money, but to a large extent leaving it to the hospitals. There will be no more money to divide that pot into two and say that we earmark part of the funds for investment and part for operation. Giving hospitals a great deal of freedom to evaluate for themselves, I think, all in all, provides a better solution for the hospitals and for the patients. Of course, you can be to increase the total power. I'm for that. There's going to be more money for hospitals. We can discuss every year how much more we need to grant, but the appropriations we have now provided have made the hospitals have a balance and invest 16 billion. kr.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e106	Three follow-up questions have been asked and are raised – first by the representative Kari Kjønaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e109	At the beginning of March, Oslo had to close all her surgery departments due to a lack of maintenance. This has meant that many of the patients have been moved around in other hospitals around Oslo, but they do not have the capacity to care for everyone. Several people who have fractured have now had to wait so long for help that the fracture must be reopened before treatment is given. In this situation, the Prime Minister says that hospitals must make investment and treatment priorities. It is very difficult to understand how a hospital can prioritise investments when we are in such a precarious situation as today, where you already have to break up damage again because you wait too long. The question is once again: are the hospitals really going to do these priorities, or are we politicians going to help make the right choices?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e116	Both politicians and hospitals must make priorities, and there is no health system where priorities need not be set. Those who think it's possible to imagine a world where you don't have to choose are naive. What we have to do is simply to decide how much money we give to hospitals in total. It's a problem for the Storing and the Government. We've increased the appropriations. We have arranged that we can now have 1.6 million more treatments and investigations than in 2005. We have significantly increased survival in Norwegian hospitals. Then the hospitals, within the limits they get, have to assess how they get the most health back for the money. Without priority, we get worse health and less survival. But what kind of framework we're going to prioritize is the Big Thing that determines. We've increased the frames, and we're going to keep increasing the frames. It does so, among other things. the possibility for hospitals to invest significant amounts in new construction and equipment – not because it is good enough, but precisely because it is missing, we need to increase investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e125	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e128	I agree with the Prime Minister that priority must be given. I also think the Prime Minister has to admit that sometimes there are systems that lead to wrong decisions. Today, in order to build a new hospital in a growing area, such as Oslo and Stavanger, health businesses have to plan to make a large profit each year by having less patient treatment, so that they can finally end up paying for half of the building and then they get borrowed half of the country. This will lead to systematic under-planning and under-dimensioning of our new hospitals. Our newest hospital, Ahus, has already transformed the patient hotel into a treatment room. Does the Prime Minister not see that today's system leads to billions of investments, but that the day the future Prime Minister cuts the cord is already too small for the population development that has been and that the hospitals in that period must cut the patient treatment in areas where there are more people?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e134	I am not saying that today's system is flawless. I'm saying that today's system is significantly better than the system we had before, and that we've practiced the system we now have, in a better way. A few years ago, there was a huge deficit, very low investment and major problems in hospitals. Now hospitals are balancing together. This means that they both finance operations and costs of interest and instalments, capital costs, and make record investments in equipment and ICT. In addition, significant investments are made in buildings. It's not like the hospitals get half. Hospitals have to pay for everything. Hospitals must pay both the operating costs and all the capital costs, all the investments. They can borrow some, but it's not free. They shall pay interest and instalments on those loans. So our whole system, for which the Right has also been for, is that we're transferring a large amount of money to the hospitals, and then they're the ones who are assessing what they need the most. They have to do the priorities within the framework we have set for how we get the best health. I'm sure there's a much better system than that one eartags from Oslo what to do with the individual hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e139	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e142	I think the Prime Minister is depriving me of this. There is every cause for concern about the high maintenance costs and delays in the health sector, both in buildings and equipment. Investment needs are so high that some regional health businesses consider it almost impossible to meet the major challenges of the system we have today. The system referred to by the Prime Minister from 2001, yes, it is 12 years old. Let me ask you a little bit more carefully: wouldn't the government even consider going in and looking at the system to see if there could be any improvement? The Christian People's Party, like others, has called for the creation of a national hospital plan, including a plan for the largest investments, such as: big new hospitals. It can't be solved within the system we have today. Will the Prime Minister not at least assess this?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e147	I think it's always wise to consider and see if one thing can be done better. We've made changes to the system. Of course, we can also expect to make changes in the future. I do not mean to say that our system is flawless, as I also said in my previous answer. As long as there are weaknesses, we're going to constantly stretch to make the system better. But what I argued about is the idea on which the scheme we have today is based, namely that the Stortinget is making an overall priority, how much money we spend in hospitals in total – and then we are decentralizing it to the regions, so that the individual hospitals assess how best to get the most health out of that money. I think that's a pretty good system. So let's discuss how big the total pot is. But the pot doesn't get bigger because you divide it into two and call it one part investment pot and the other operation pot. No, it's the same size. One half plus one half is one. But we'd like to discuss whether to grant two. And then there's more. But there's another discussion – if you're going to grant more. We've done that, and we're going to keep doing that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e156	We move on to the next main question – from the representative Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e159	In recent weeks, the debate and the process of financing medicinal products for foeto- and prostate cancer have been an interesting discussion to follow. First of all, it has shown that there is unforeseeability and lack of transparency in the system. It has also shown how this can affect patients. None of the drugs discussed can cure cancer, but they have demonstrated a life-long effect. So it's always the way it's necessary to have priorities in health care. But it can't just explain what we saw last week. Priorities must be clear, anchored in the system. It must be understandable to people. But it's not just a matter of priorities for life span. The introduction of new medicinal products is also about solidarity with far more than with those receiving them. It's about solidarity with everyone who can benefit from these in the future, and anyone who gets a diagnosis that drugs can help. It is also about the role that Norway should play, the position in which we intend to play in the fight against diseases. It is simply about taking responsibility for the development of new medicines. Are we going to have a role as propellants, or are we going to be the ones that tickle after and take advantage of the efforts of other countries? When you look at medicines for pectoris, Norway is all alone in not wanting to use them. It is gratifying that the government found a way to deal with the issue of spotting. But still there are many diseases where we can't be in the front. We have the example of Norwegian MS patients, who travel to Sweden for hundreds of thousands of dollars of their own to receive stem cell treatment. My questions to the Prime Minister are: Is he satisfied with the situation? Does he mean that Norway should have a system that ensures that we get started faster on new medicines, or are we going to be those who are always waiting and hoping to get the cheapest ‘deal’?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e170	No, I'm not happy. That's why I want to do more in the field of health, and in the field of cancer in particular. It's so very important that we succeed better in cancer, because there are almost 30,000 people who get cancer every year. The number of cancers is increasing, including: Because we live longer, and there are over 170,000 people living with cancer. We have too many examples of people not getting the treatment they need. There are still new examples of new treatments, which are important if we are to be used as quickly and as best as possible. So there are many unresolved problems. At the same time, let us be inspired by the progress we have seen in Norwegian cancer treatment. 20 years ago, more than half of those diagnosed with cancer died. Now it's like two out of three survive a cancer diagnosis. So we've seen a revolution in cancer treatment, not least in recent years. Norway has gone from being the average for survival to being at the global peak. We're either the best or the best in survival. The likelihood of survival of a cancer diagnosis is higher in Norway than in any other country. We're not satisfied with that. There are still too many examples of things that are not good enough. But at least we're on a course that fortunately makes there are many more people who get good treatment for and survive cancer now than a few years ago. Then we're going to build on that progress. Let us consider, among other things: to apply medicinal products. Then it is important that we do as the Stortinget has said, that we make a professional assessment and that we make a priority. Because if we do not give priority, we will be guaranteed poorer health care, less survival and less performance in the Norwegian health care system. We have the two cancer drugs. Neither cures, but both can contribute to life-longing. That's why they're also in use.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e179	I am pleased that the Prime Minister says he should follow the Storting, because the government has not done so on a material point in terms of the pharmaceutical policy. During the previous government, we made major changes to the reimbursement system, which has saved billions in the pharmaceutical sector, but the Stortinget was very clear that that savings were to be used, among other things. to move several medicines from individual right and reimbursement to the bladder prescription system. It is the question of the treatment of prostate cancer that has now been discussed. The government has chosen to say that it should not be on blue prescription; it should still be individual treatment. Is the Prime Minister aware that there is good evidence that this means greater social differences? There is clear evidence that the individual right is achieved much more often by people with long-term education and high incomes, with the possibility of pushing forward other forms of treatment, while the bladder prescription system creates greater social equality. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with a system of access to cancer treatment that creates greater social inequality?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e184	Our system can improve, even if it delivers good results for survival when treating cancer compared to other countries and also compared to the past. We have significantly better results now than a few years ago in cancer survival. But of course it can get better. That is why the Minister for Health has announced a review. In the case of medicine against pelvic fractures, which are not curative, but life-prolonging, we know that it can work for some people, but not for others. We've been working on trying to get research knowledge about who this medicine works for, because it'll be much more effective if we can concentrate it on those it works for. It's the research project for pelvic fractures -- that's very correct, and then we're giving this medicine now. For the drugs against prostate cancer, neither is the cure, but it can be life-prolonging for someone. There's a professional assessment. There is an individual reimbursement scheme that allows many doctors to prescribe that medicine. We have to assume that it happens on a professional basis, and that's what happens.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e193	There are four follow-up questions – first Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e196	These cases show that Norway, one of the most resource-intensive countries in Europe, allows other countries to take the cost of testing new drugs. I believe that there is a position that there is almost reason to boast, if we compare ourselves to other countries, because we, as a prosperous country, also have to take our share of the responsibility to test out medications. Children are not young adults, but children. This government has for several years trained the implementation of a system that protects medicine specifically for children, in such a way that one also gets researched, developed and tested medicine specifically for children. This is probably an example – the countries around us have introduced this system and are contributing to something that everyone thinks is essential, namely that we develop our own medicines specifically aimed at children, while Norway is fully calm and waiting for others to do this job. Is there a position with which the Prime Minister is satisfied?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e204	Norway contributes significantly to the development of medicinal products. We're doing a lot of research on drugs, and right now we've launched a research program to find out how we can use a drug that exists much more specifically. We know that it works on some patients and not on others, and we're going to try to figure out which patients it works on through research. It will significantly enhance the efficacy of that medicinal product. At the same time, I would like to stress that, in addition to medicines and treatment, which are important, it is absolutely essential that we also focus on prevention. It's important what we've done in the case of smoke, and it's important what's done in the case of solarium, not least when we're talking about femur. I notice that there has been resistance to some unpopular measures, but they are crucial to reducing pelvic and skin cancer, not least among young people. And this is important in terms of prevention through the interaction reform – if you detect a number of early cancers, you could increase the rate of recovery dramatically. So prevention through interaction reform and through public health is also crucial in the fight against cancer.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e211	Jon Jäger Gåsvatn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e214	The EU has robust authorisation systems for drugs. In the case of Yervoy, the Scientific Committee of the European Economic Area (EMA) stated that the medicinal product was authorised for the whole EEA territory because the benefits were greater than the risk. Despite being signed a year ago, the Minister of Health replied that the Norwegian authorities placed a significant emphasis on the adverse effects and uncertainties related to diet-benefit effects, and on that basis they refused to include Yervoy in the national action programme. Now, one year later, the Minister of Health has opened up clinical trials of the drug. Patients with pectoris spread may have lost an entire year of treatment in the fight against a life-threatening and hoarse disease. What is the reason why the Prime Minister defends a system that requires Norwegian cancer patients to wait significantly longer than those in other countries in order to obtain access to approved drugs that can be proven to have a good effect on treatment and that may actually mean the difference between life and death for some?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e221	Let me underline the following: we have a good system in Norway. But of course it can get better, and the Minister of Health has announced a review. We've also launched research to try to identify how the drug against pharyngitis can be more targeted, and thus get much more effective. The system we have, which, of course, can improve, provides cancer treatment in Norway, which is among the best in the world – in some areas best. Recent OECD figures show that there is a significantly higher probability of survival of a cancer diagnosis in Norway today than a few years ago. So we're talking about a system that delivers good results from what they did a few years ago, and from other countries. But also a good system that is among the best in the world can be even better. That is why we are doing something about medicines, and the Minister of Health has notified us of its review.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e226	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e229	In cancer care in Norway, there are two distinct bottlenecks: there is diagnosis, and there are new drugs. In Denmark, and now also in Sweden, diagnostic centres are established where patients meet current specialists and are diagnosed within a few days. In Denmark, this is soon nationwide. When it comes to the use of new drugs, we see time and time again that we are following in relation to other countries. Now we're going to start a test at the diagnostic centre, and we're going to start an experiment using new pectoral medicine for a long time after other countries. What makes it impossible for us here in Norway to use the experience of other countries more directly? Why do we have to try out what our neighboring country has been running with for many years, and that works?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e240	Firstly, I think we should admit that it is difficult to compare countries, because countries have very different systems. Some countries approve a medicine, but it is not necessarily widely used. The drug against prostate cancer that has been mentioned recently, for example, is a medicine that is not on blue prescription, but on individual reimbursement, and that is used to a great extent, after a professional assessment by the doctor, where it has an effect. It's not safe there's any worse arrangement than a system where you have it on blue prescriptions in terms of actual effect. What we're doing is something that's very important. We're making priorities. The priorities shall be based on the principles agreed by the Storting, namely the severity of the disease, the expected benefits of health care and costs. It is true that the Directorate of Health is looking at the efficacy of a medicinal product in relation to its cost and benefit. Some cancer drugs have little life-prolonging effects and have a high cost – now the Health Directorate has assessed them, and there are professional assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e247	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e250	When you've been following Storting's work over a period of time, you can see that a lot is repeated between opposition and position. When the Stortinget dealt with the complaint concerning medicinal products from the Bondevik II Government, the rapporteur of the Workers' Party began his statement with the following: ‘The range of medicinal products is characterised by conflicting interests. Many proposals for new measures have come individually and partially under-coordinated, which has made the work on these matters untransparent and difficult in the Storting.’ New life-prolonging drugs are constantly appearing. They're expensive, and many doctors are asking for more documentation. There has been a lot of talk about priorities in this debate. Can the Prime Minister say whether he believes that today’s pharmaceutical priority is being wisely – and that today’s system and today’s reimbursement system are the best?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e262	If that question involves whether I think our system can't get better, the answer is no – it can, of course, get better. If the question is whether I believe we have a good system in Norway, the answer is yes. But as I have said several times, a good system – which we have, and which provides one of the world's best survival rates – is considerably better than in many other countries, for us is not good enough. It's going to be even better. That is why we are using new medicines. But we also implement priorities. If we don't prioritize, it's guaranteed that we use forces, drugs and people wrong – and get less health, less survival, again. Priority is not something we do to weaken health, priority is what we do to strengthen health. Just because we make difficult priority choices, we get better results in Norway than in many other countries. We can't rule out that this can do even better. So we're going to have to raise the limits so that we can say yes to even more by spending even more money. It is true that it is an element of repetition [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e273	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e277	The government has taken the initiative in the last few weeks for an exciting family debate. The government's question is, Is it as valuable to spend time with the children as working? After one week, the government has given its answer through the responsible government council: spending time with the children is as valuable as working. It is an answer Christian People's Party is well pleased with. It is valuable to spend time with the children. I thought Lill May Vestly has said it quite right: ‘If two women are at home with each of their three children, the old-fashioned housewives, have zero pay and zero rights. If they exchange children, on the other hand, and set up their own family nursery, they immediately become self-employed and modern, forward-looking women.» I think most of my grandchildren are doing well in Norway in 2013. But there's one thing on the wish list, and there's more time in it. Most grandchildren today are going to work until they are over 70 years old. The question is whether the ideal is for one to work 100 pst. all days — from toddler-parent phase up to one is over 70 years of age. We also see worrying developments in the case of sick leave. Women's absence is above average, and development is more negative for women in the early stages. My question is: does the Prime Minister think that small children's parents who do not want to go to full-time work after the parental leave, in a way, fail their part of the social machinery?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e293	The answer to that is absolutely no. I believe that one of the finest things I and most parents have done in their lives is to be with their children. I'm concerned that we're going to have a society where we're facilitating it. That is why over several years, not least this government, we have significantly increased parental leave. Hardly any other country has longer leave, so that people can be home when the child is newborn. We've also made it possible to take out leave over several years. We have laws that guarantee parents the right to have unpaid leave, in addition to the paid one. We have introduced a pension reform that allows for pension credits until the child reaches the age of six — well — and starts at school, if you are at home with the child. I'm very busy facilitating that people can choose to be with the children if they want to. Of course, it's an amazing part of society that people take care of their children. At the same time, I would like to underline the following: I am a little afraid politicians who should have sloppy opinions about what is right, and incorrect, behavior. That someone chooses to work very much or very little, half-day or all-day, be home with children or at home without children – the majority of those who work part-time do not actually have children and are at home for other reasons, I don't know why, but at least they're not in full-time jobs – I don't mean anything about it. I want to live in a society where people do as much as they want – that is. do different things. I have no idea. It's about freedom, it's about freedom of choice. This government has arranged for it. I remember running the Mannsroll committee. Then I was very concerned that the sample would not end up with a prescription on what was the correct human role. It's completely wrong -- just like it's completely wrong to have some idea of what's the right woman's roll. We have to live in a diverse society, people have to live different lives. But in order for people to live the different lives, we must have strong Community solutions at the bottom. Whether it's kindergartens, school leisure arrangements or one year's parental leave, it's these schemes that make people get the real freedom of choice. And for that I am.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e306	I am a little unsure whether it is a parliamentary expression – I think I have to say it anyway: Hallelujah! This is exactly what is the thinking of the Christian People's Party, that families are different. [[Laughter]] Families must be allowed to choose what is best for different families. Some people want to go to full-time work after the parental leave is over. Someone might want to go into a part-time position. Someone may choose – when the child is one year old – to use cash support one or two days a week and the nursery three or four days a week. Since the Prime Minister is so clear on this, will he contribute to greater flexibility and choice for the families of children?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e313	The President can reassure the representative Hareide that ‘hallelujah’ is absolutely not an unparliamentary expression. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e316	Then there's a hallelujah mood in Stortinget now! This government has contributed to increased freedom of choice and more flexibility by providing full child-care coverage, by providing for over one year of parental leave – I think it is now 59 weeks with 80 pst. pay — and by providing other measures to make it easier to choose the life you want to live, especially if you have children. And we want to do even more. At the same time, I want to – let's say – nuance a little: what we have to be concerned about at the same time is looking at the things in society that make there become systematic differences between sexes. What is a problem is that there are still women who are overly double-working, that there are still women who get the lowest wages, and that there are still women who bear most of the care responsibilities. Then we have to see if this is a result of real freedom of choice, or if it's the result of some mechanisms in society that make it an inequality that we don't want. That is a reason why I believe that, among other things, cash support is not a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e325	There will be three follow-up questions – first Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e328	It's not just about saying hallelujah, it's also about doing hallelujah, someone has said. I want to continue a little bit with the Prime Minister's last answer, namely from a woman's point of view. The women's struggle has just been about having good arrangements to combine family life and working life in a good way. There have been quite large and beautiful arrangements, which have made this possible. But now we see some slightly warning index fingers from strong women's pocket women, for example. Torild Skard. Gender researchers have also warned something about the change in perspective that has now taken place, namely that working life will no longer take responsibility for getting these good arrangements. That's the first time we've got an equal pay commission, which has turned this upside down. My question to the Prime Minister is: Do you want to take responsibility back, so that it is the responsibility of society to facilitate this, and so that it is not the women themselves who have to bear the burden of this change?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e335	If I perceive the question there that it is a social responsibility to facilitate the combination of work and family life, I mean absolutely yes. I believe that it should be facilitated for both men and women to be able to do so. And I think again that there's a lot that's not good enough. We still see a gender-based labour market. We're still seeing big income differences. But at the same time, once again, we've achieved quite a lot. We are among the countries with the highest female participation — combined with high birth rates, and parents more than in other countries have time to be with their children. So I mean absolutely it's a social responsibility. But I also think it is important to understand the mechanisms that contribute to this development of equality, of which we want more. The paper commission has been absolutely crucial. I'm deeply concerned about those who want to remove it. It will eliminate an important instrument to achieve real equality between women and men, and not systematic gender differences. In the case of cash support, it is now reduced to one year. Then it does not do as much damage as before. The idea of having cash support until the child starts school – which was the original idea in 2001, or actually before that – would really put equality and the real freedom of choice back when paying people for not having children in kindergarten. There are some important mechanisms we need to talk about when we talk about family policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e346	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e349	It's soon Easter, and it could be tempting to start this by saying hosianna, honor be the Prime Minister. Honor be the Prime Minister of the post he had about the importance of freedom of choice and that he has faith that families can make their own choices. At the same time, he said that the cash support is not a good idea. Well, for some families the cash support is actually a good idea, and for some families it's being home with their kids a little longer than this government allows, also a good idea. That's why it's so important that we have freedom of choice for families, that families themselves can be allowed to make their choices. This government has spent more money on parental leave in the last eight years, but it has put in place a lot of allowances to prevent families from making the choices that are important for each family. My question to the Prime Minister will then be: Is freedom of choice synonymous with the introduction of quotas?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e356	The paper commission – which I think the representative is talking about – I believe is an important tool for breaking down some visible and invisible barriers to real equality. Sometimes we have to use that kind of means to break down what is really a big difference in our society. Before the paper show came, there was hardly a single father at home when the child was newborn – I think it was under 1 pst. The paper commission has made many fathers home when the children are young. It's good for kids, it's good for equality, and it's not least good for dad. But because we have so much inherited tradition, culture, and innate and ingrained gender roles, we need to use the kind of tool that pap papermy is, to break down those barriers. For this reason, I have seen that the paper commission has perhaps been the most important measure to create genuine freedom of choice for women and more equality both at home and in the family. I will continue to defend that kind of tool because we need it to create equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e362	Linda C. Hofstad Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e365	Right will have less detailed governance from politicians and more freedom of choice for families. On 1 July, the third division of the parental leave shall be introduced: 14 weeks’ mother’s quota and 14 weeks’ parental quota. Parents who do not have the possibility to withdraw the entire period of leave are excluded from the weeks of leave. The leave weeks may not be transferred to the other parent. So the state goes in and takes small kids valuable time with mom or dad because the parents aren't able to live up to the Workers' Party's family ideal. We cannot premise those who have chosen the wrong choice, said Jens Stoltenberg in 2005 about the possibility for parents to choose differently. Does the Prime Minister think it is right that the children should be punished because their parents are unable to live their lives the way the Labour Party wants them to?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e372	I was originally very pleased that the Right supported the paper commission. It was because the Right at some point in its history understood that they were wrong when they were first against, and so for a few years was in favour – and now they have become discouraged again. We don't live in a society where we start with completely equal assumptions. If we remove some of those arrangements, for example: The fact that fathers are also with their children is not going to be an equal distribution. There will be systematic differences that make women less career, less job and less pay, and children less associate with their father. That's why I was very happy that the right years were for this. Now they're brave, and I think that's sad for equality, because I think having a fair distribution is something that helps to promote measures that break down the invisible barriers that exist in society and that prevent real freedom of choice. In the case of paper burning and increased parental leave, we have not cut and taken from anyone, but we have increased the total package. We have premiered and given some incentives for equality.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e379	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e382	The tasks of the Foreign Service are shared between the police and the UDI. At these times, however, the UDI will change the procedures for granting a residence permit and renewing a residence permit in Norway without the involvement of the police interest groups in the process. This is called the EFFEKT programme, and it has to be launched after a solution called curative renewals. These curative renewals and the EFFECT programme are likely to reduce the scope of control when applying for renewal because no documents are to be included or stored in the cases. Therefore, applications should not be treated in a traditional way, despite the fact that the Oslo Police in 2012 revealed that the UDI had granted residence to a number of specialists who did not fulfil the permit conditions. The specialists and these permits were widely used by criminals to collect people who would contribute to criminal activity in Norway. These new procedures make it absolutely impossible for the police to verify whether these persons have a legal residence or are operating with a false ID or false documents in order to obtain a residence and work permit in Norway. Is this something initiated by this government, or is it UDI on its own initiative that has changed the routines?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e389	I am absolutely sure that the UDI is concerned that people who do not have the right to stay in Norway will not be allowed to stay in Norway. One of the UDI's main jobs is to avoid people who aren't supposed to be here being here. UDI spends a lot of time — including with the police — to ensure that people do not come to the country, do not stay in the country and are also transported out of the country voluntarily or involuntarily, with coercion, in order not to be here if they do not have the right to stay. With regard to the EFFEKT programme and the curative renewal projects, I am not informed about the details of it and the status of that programme, but I am absolutely sure that the Minister of Justice will be able to explain how it has been handled in both the police and the UDI. It's probably an example that simplifying things sometimes can be more complicated than you think, because there's often strong interests behind any regulation, any arrangement. If you want to simplify, there's someone who also dislikes it. But I think it's better for the Minister of Justice to answer that, simply because I think she knows the details of the concrete measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e396	I hear the Prime Minister says that UDI spends a lot of time with the police today to ensure quality. The new procedures will lead to the opposite of not being included by the police in the control section. They lose the opportunity because through their curative renewals, UDI does not store and archive documents and IDs to these individuals, and then it becomes impossible for the police to check afterwards when it comes to renewal. I have a letter from the NTL Police, the Police Lawyers and the Society Suites in the Oslo Police District who have come to the Committee. They are very concerned about the reduced control currently planned. This has been tried in Sweden. The result will be increased trafficking in human beings, massive illegal immigration, counterfeiting of IDs and counterfeiting of work permits, leading to increased crime. I hope that the Prime Minister will inform and take this up with the Minister of Justice to ensure that these procedures are stopped.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e403	I can promise the representative Sandberg that I will take it up with the Minister of Justice and refer to that letter and the issues raised by the representative. I fully agree with what is the intention of the representative, that we must not do things that make it easier to be illegal in our country and enter the country without legal residence. We have to go through the specific programmes and look at the arguments for and against – there are certainly different assessments of it. In general, I want to say that we are concerned that we should know more about who is coming, and get more clarifications of identity. One of the reasons that former Minister of Justice Knut Storberget spent a lot of time building up our ability to clarify identity, and that we also created our own centre for ID, was just to clarify the identity of many people who come here with false or at least uncertain ID. Id clarification is essential in order to ensure order in immigration.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e410	Two follow-up questions have been asked – first Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e413	Let me start by saying that I think it is good that the Prime Minister answers the representative Sandberg that he intends to follow up and go into the issue and take this up with the Minister of Justice. I'm glad. There must be a problem when the government on the one hand says that one is very concerned about having a strict immigration policy and that one should have control of these matters, while the bureaucracy on the other hand through this case of the EFFEKT programme in the UDI now chooses to go to the step of reducing control. As you can see, it's really a little serious in many ways that the Prime Minister is not familiar with it. At least I'm glad you're following up. But does the Prime Minister see it as problematic that you have such an important office in the state that you do things across what you have politically said?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e418	It's not that the institutions can do what they want, and they can't undermine the government's policy. They do things under the authority of political authorities. I do not know the details of this EFFECT programme. It sounds like a simplification attempt. It's possible it's not a successful attempt. I'll ask the Minister of Justice. But the basic thing is that both the UDI, the police and the government have the same approach: we need to avoid people who do not have legal residence coming to the country. People who are here without legal residence are going out of the country. We have implemented significant measures to increase the number of returns significantly. The number of people transported by coercion has increased significantly, and thus the voluntary return of people who do not have legal residence has also increased significantly. We live in an open European labour market, and we live in Schengen – for which I feel that all parties on the Grand Duchy are in favour. There are some additional challenges in controlling people coming from within the Schengen area and from within the EU area, because there are less opportunities to control.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e426	André Oktay Dahl – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e429	Rich Norway is becoming increasingly vulnerable to slave traders sending slaves to our country. I call it deliberately slaves, and not trafficking victims – because it sounds like part of the National Transport Plan – or trafficking in human beings, because it just becomes too neutral. In the rich Norway, slave traders do what they can to send in construction workers, beggars, forced prostitutes — most of the money they can make to sell other people's bodies over and over again. Before this came to the Questionnaire, the Oslo police and the Swedish police warned that it has become easier to smuggle slaves into Norway. The government is very concerned about trafficking in human beings and has recently presented a plan against trafficking in human beings. The question then is: is this probably an example of a lack of coordination of the total work against trafficking in human beings, given that the Prime Minister here today is not aware of such a fundamental change as the police in both Norway and Sweden warn against?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e436	The government has taken a number of measures to combat trafficking in human beings. We have strengthened the police, we have strengthened cooperation with other countries, and we will continue to do so. In terms of work, UDI and the police are cooperating. There is no guaranteed desire on the part of the UDI to facilitate more trafficking in human beings. But it is possible that there are different professional assessments of how this measure works, and that is why I will deal with it with the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e441	Let's go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e444	When a country adopts a completely new penal code, it is very important, because it is rare to go through the boundaries of what is right and wrong and look at changing social conditions. It also has great symbolic value, because a country's penal code says something about what that country is. In Norway, it is right to say that our penal code says a lot about what kind of democracy we are, and what kind of values we are based on. The first part of the penal code was adopted in 2005 and had been prepared for decades. The fact that it should also come into force should not be a matter of urgency. That it will take as long as VG has written about the last few days because of data problems in the police department, it is difficult to understand. When the second part was dealt with in Stortinget, former Minister of Justice assumed that it would enter into force in 2012. According to VG, we write 2021 before that happens, while the Minister of Justice is now quoting ‘have good faith’ about 2017, after the government suddenly began to think a little bit more carefully about how it would come into force in 2012. The data problems in the police have been known for a long time. The systems we have, lead to duplication of work, little sensible ways of working and less effective fight against crime. My question is: how many years does the Prime Minister think that the government can postpone the entry into force of laws before it is a democratic problem and creates distrust of how our country is governed? And can the Prime Minister explain why it took seven years from the first part of the new penal code was passed in 2005 until the government in 2012 began thinking that the law would also start to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e453	The new penal code has been adopted in two stages. The first part was adopted in 2005, while the special part related to the criminal penalties was adopted in 2009. Everyone is aware that transposing the entire penal code from 1902 into a new criminal law of 2009, is a difficult process with very many criminal orders and very many regulations. It was already clear in 2009 that this would take time. It is about adjustments to a lot of other legislation, and it is about extensive changes and conversion of police criminal records. I would very much like to see that it could go much faster than it does. We have now increased the appropriations to make it easier to make the major changes both in other laws and in the criminal justice system, but it will take time. The Ministry of Justice now says 2016, 2017. I think it is important to clarify the following: it is not that while we are waiting for the new law to be incorporated into the entire criminal record, and we are adjusting other laws, we have not implemented the main provisions of the new criminal law. They are incorporated into the old penal code. As seen, the old one is as good as a new one by incorporating the essential provisions of the new penal code into the old one and is therefore Norwegian law in force, or is in the process of becoming Norwegian law in force. This is more a matter of a major administrative change in the criminal justice system, but the essential provisions are contained in the old penal code of 1902 and have therefore already become, or are in the process of becoming, the Norwegian law in force.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e460	The reason for this is that the Supreme Court endorsed the government’s way of operating legislative techniques. It's especially to think that it's very offensive. The issue of criminal law is part of a larger picture, because for a long time, Stortinget has received very little information about the development and financing of police ICT systems. A few weeks ago, I received a reply from the Minister of Justice that it was not possible to tell how much you had spent on ICT in the police since 2009, or what the money had gone to. Difi has just slaughtered POD and the Ministry of Justice's competence and management of ICT in the police. This might explain why you don't get answers to questions to Stortinget either. Over the last few years, considerable funds have been withheld, and the Stortinget has not been informed of this when we have dealt with the state budgets. Is the Prime Minister in as good a belief in police developments as the Minister of Justice is, and how has the Prime Minister intended to inform the Storting better in the future, so that this good faith is a little more credible than the good faith that existed between 2005 and 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e469	It is well known that there have been major problems — at least major challenges — related to ICT in many public agencies, including the police. This is why both more money is allocated and significant changes have been made to advance those processes. There is considerable work being done by the police, and I am sure that the Minister of Justice, who is constitutionally responsible, will inform the Storting and answer questions if the Storing has questions about the implementation of this process. We are all concerned that the ICT systems that the police have, not least linked to the criminal record, are being strengthened as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e474	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Anders B. Werp.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e477	Repeated notices have shown us that it may be 12 years from the adoption of the new penal code until it enters into force. The Prime Minister has repeatedly said in this debate that we must give priority and that the government must give priority. The late entry into force of the Penal Code affects people’s security because the crime scene is in no way at all. It evolves, and we need a penal code that takes into account that relationship. When that does not happen, we increase the uncertainty and uncertainty of society. My question to the Prime Minister is, When does the point occur that the Prime Minister himself is committed to the priority in such an important area that affects people's sense of security and security?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e486	This is something that the Prime Minister is engaged in very often and at regular intervals, by constantly discussing in the government how we can increase security in general, strengthen the police, and also ensure that we, for example, are involved. implements the new provisions of the new penal code. As I pointed out in the previous question, the new provisions are essentially implemented in the old penal code. This applies, inter alia, to: the provision of genocide, the criminal order against nuclear terrorism, and the issue currently under consideration, of criminal statements published on the Internet, shall also be considered to be in public space, and many other provisions. These are things that are implemented by the old penal code, and it is not that we are waiting until 2016 for these provisions to be adopted and implemented. That happens by having a well-functioning penal code, the one of 1909, which is significantly up-to-date and renewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e496	Per Sandberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e499	It's a little strange — it seems like it would have been better and more effective to implement a new penal code in the old criminal law immediately, and then you could only have waited 5, 10, 15, 20 years to implement it in the new criminal system. Because that's exactly what the Prime Minister says -- we don't fail with the new law. We implement it in the old one. But this now seems to be going on throughout the public sector. My committee has also met with the courts, which have the exact same problem – witness interviews disappear because you have an ICT system that is 30, 40, 50 years old, and it takes 10 and 15 years to get new. The emergency network is a new example, police communication is another example. If we compare ourselves to other countries around us, they get this in place in a very, very short time. They lack neither resources, competences nor systems to be implemented and to be renewed. But in Norway we stand calm. What's wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e508	We are not calm in Norway. We do a lot, and we succeed very well in many areas. We have large investment projects that have gone fast and well in the public sector. Within, inter alia: The defense we have a lot of good examples of that. We have large health investments that have gone very well, and in many other areas we have a high pace in many important sectors. But we also have examples – and they are too many – of things that take too much time. It is precisely that we may have to recognise that some of the demands we make in Norway for quality assurance, for anchoring, for democratic treatment, for consultation and for objections, make it too extensive. There has been a main theme in the presentations I have given to the Stortinget, that we may have to go through part of the Norwegian decision-making systems, and be willing to do so, for example. to use government plans more frequently. Maybe we should sometimes be willing to go straight to conclusions, like we do. The new Emergency Response Centre in Groruddalen, where we quickly made a decision and implemented it, even though more investigations and assessments were required. So it's a balance, quality assurance against speed. Sometimes you have to pick speed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e517	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e520	I think everyone understands that you have to balance security, and that it has to go fast enough. But as the Prime Minister was concerned, this is not specific in this sector. One can take health, where one hears that fax is used to send papers. One has Nav, who has great challenges. They use MS-DOS-based programs, and they have ten different programs that don't talk, so you have to type in the different information over and over again. Then there's a justice sector where they have a lot of different challenges. I really wonder: why is the Prime Minister, who is so active on new media and busy with IT, at least in private use, more eager for public employees to get the good tools that are available? As many have experienced, they are at least more offensive in other countries. In fact, investing in IT is an investment – it is not a cost. It provides enormous savings, and it provides incredibly good opportunities for efficiency. Why does a not have a complete plan for IT, so that it does not take ten years for each and every sector to bring up computer systems?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e529	I have great faith that more use of digital solutions in the public sector would provide significantly better services to the population of Norway and a better public sector that can provide better services. That's why the government has put forward a comprehensive plan – we've presented a digitisation plan, and we've built some of the basic walls we need, among other things. in the case of eID and better public sector systems. In some areas, we've come very far. For example, tax, which is current in these days, we may be among the most digitised and have the most effective tax collection systems. Random? Nope. But at least we're good at it. Then we're good at other things, too. Within, inter alia: health we have received digital or automatic reimbursement in the case of excesses. Before that we had to save on the receipts, but now it goes automatically. More and more pharmacies in the counties now have an e-prescription. It's a much simpler and much safer system than the old paper recipes. We also have many other examples of things that succeed, and it must inspire us to do more in those areas where we do not succeed.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e536	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e552	‘Espeland prisoner camp is the last remaining supply camp used by the Nazis during World War II, and in addition one of the most intact memorials from the settlement of the land. Defence buildings have been declared in 2008: ‘The Chair is therefore considered to have unique war-historic symbolic value’. The Espeland Prison Camp Foundation communicates the history of the camp, and the Bergen Municipality Museum Plan proposes Espeland Prison Camp consolidated into the Museum West. Will the Council of State help to dispose of the camp from the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness for Museums?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e564	The short answer to Warloe's question is: Yes, I'm working on that goal for the eye. As described in the introduction to the question, Espeland is the only original prisoner camp from World War II that is left in Norway. With its preserved wooden buildings, it is also unique in the European context. I can inform you that Espeland Prison Camp is proposed in the National Defense Plan for the Justice sector. The Espeland Prison Camp Foundation has been in dialogue with the Department on the possibilities of taking over the camp for museum purposes. I should like to point out here that the Foundation has made an important contribution to the maintenance of the camp. The Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness has undertaken to dispose of the camp under the legislation on disposal in the country. Initially, only state enterprises have the right to transfer state properties before they are offered for sale. This implies that municipalities/communities and any other actors must have a separate mandate from the Storting in order to obtain pre-emption rights. Such powers shall be granted for one year at a time. I have informed the Foundation of this in a letter dated 14 March this year. DSB has entered into a framework agreement with Defence Building Change of property for assistance in the disposal case. Defence structures Change of property has recommended to re-regulate the camp and then dispose of the protection and non-protected area separately. I am informed that the work on the reregulation etc. will be able to take from one half to two years. I am also aware that the DSB has initiated a preliminary conference with the municipality of Bergen. Once this has been implemented, it will be possible to have a view of the time perspective and the possibilities for any redundancy. With Espeland camp's position in our war history, I see it as most topical to propose the disposal of the property for museum purposes. When the matter has been clarified, I will therefore consider asking the Storting for a special authorisation for the disposal of the property for such a purpose.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e577	I would like to thank the Council of State for a very positive response. But let me say that I'm a little worried about two relationships. This is because such processes, which are probably also experienced by the Council of State, can often take a long time, especially when several actors are involved. And it's about the regulatory process, it's about redundancy, it's about the management plan, etc. If this takes a long time, there are two factors that are worrying. One is that the buildings and the camp are due. There has been no maintenance to talk about in the last 20–25 years, except what the foundation itself has done on its own initiative. In addition, this foundation consists of voluntary enthusiasts and idealists, and it is known that idealism lasts for a while, but perhaps not in all the future. That is why I would encourage the Council of State to help speed up the process.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e584	I follow this process and, as I said, have also had written communication with the Foundation. I have been informed that it is a goal that management plans and state analyses for the camp's construction and outdoor areas will be completed during August this year. As I also said in my answer, I am pleased with the commitment that the foundation shows, and I appreciate the maintenance work that has been done in the years that we have behind us. That this process has the aim for the eye that I mentioned in the introduction is my starting point when I now follow the matter up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e591	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and promise that we are more to follow up on this. There is a great commitment in Arna and in Bergen for Espeland prison camp, and I think the volunteers who have been on for many, many years – at least since 2000 – have contributed to both conveying this war story and taking care of the site. The head of the foundation sits here at the gallery and follows the Council of State's response, and I'm optimistic after hearing the Council of State here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e596	I can only assure you that here we clearly have a common commitment, and this process that is going on must be carried out in such a way as to handle this kind of process. But we're sitting with a war memorial, an important part of our close history, which we have to ensure that we take care of in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e605	My question is: ‘The Ministry of Health and Welfare adopted in 2012 a reorganisation of skills services for deaf blind people in specialist health services. According to users and trade unions, the new organisation has not led to the simplification that has been sought, but on the contrary to a more complex and unbridled service. What will the Council of State do to ensure that national services of competence for deaf blind people are organised in such a way as to improve quality of service through enhanced cooperation, work sharing and better resource use?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e614	The Health Directorate investigated the future organisation of the centres of expertise for rare and unknown diagnosis and disability in 2010. The centres providing services to deaf blind people were included in this investigation. The investigation was part of a comprehensive review and the establishment of a new management system for national services in the specialist health service. The new management system was implemented from 2011. The Ministry approved in 2012 the National Competence Service for Rare and Unknown Diagnosis and Disabilities in Health South-East. Furthermore, a national competence service for deaf blind people was approved in Health Nord in 2012. The Ministry provided that the centres providing services to deaf blind persons were to be included in this service. The organisation is similar to that established for the national services of expertise for rare diagnosis and disability. The aim of co-organising deaf-blind competence services in one national competence service is to achieve better quality of service. We do this by strengthening cooperation and division of labour and by improving the overall use of resources. The Ministry has requested that Health Nord enter into agreements with the deaf-blind centres in question. Through these agreements, Health Nord will be responsible for the whole of the offer. It has been considered that this organisation provides the basis for the most appropriate development of deaf-blind services. The Competence Service shall contribute to the further development of competences and shall contribute to the dissemination of knowledge, to the provision of advice and to the contribution of research. Health Nord reports that contact with deaf-blind centres of the national competence service has been established. The University Hospital of North Norway is responsible for the Regional Centre for the Deaf and Deaf and has been commissioned by Health Nord to establish the National Competence Service. Positions shall be published and arrangements shall be made with the other centres of competence. This work is in progress. This will focus on user involvement and cooperation between the services of the national competence service. Let me add that it is important to follow up how this works, listen to the users and be open to necessary adjustments along the way. But this is the arrangement that is now under roll-out and that will provide – we hope – good services to this important group.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e627	I thank you for the answer, but I have to add that the centres that will be part of the new service have still not reached an agreement with Health Nord RHF. Then the user organisations report that they are not involved in the process of setting up the new form of organisation of the national competence service. In the media, we have recently been told the consequences of the changes that Nav has made in guidelines for the use of deaf-blind interpreters, and also there, user organisations say that this was decided without being requested – nor were they informed that these changes should happen. In the light of this, does the Council of State consider that the involvement of user organisations is well-managed?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e634	Let me first say that it is very important that user organisations are included. I feel that in all parts of what we do in the Norwegian health system, the user perspective becomes more important and important for the design of treatment services and to ensure the quality of services. What concerns Nav, I can't go into detail, because it's not under my responsibility, but I'm taking the signal from the representative. If there is a distressing representative now sending to me here in Stortinget, I will, of course, take it with me. I'll take it up with Health North and follow up and make sure it's well taken care of. My impression is that regional health companies have good contact with user organisations – they focus on it – but if there are reports that it is not good enough, we will of course address it. Otherwise – as I said in my reply – this is now a system of positions and agreements that are in progress. And then we're going to hope that it works as fast and as high-quality as possible. We will also follow this up from the Department, because we are concerned that this group will receive the good offers it has the right to and deserves.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e643	I thank the Council of State for his sensitivity to the dialogue with the user organisations. In fact, deaf-blind and deaf-blind are a particularly vulnerable group, with major challenges, which the welfare community must be very aware of in a proper way. Although each person has a significant need for help, it is not really about very many people – and therefore not about the large amount of money – but precisely because they are so few, it may be difficult for this group to achieve in the political change of words, to be brought up on the political agenda, as there are so many groups calling out higher. Would the Council of State be able to assure both the Storing and the public that the special needs of this group are being met in a good way?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e652	I hope I can answer yes to that, and let me stress that I believe the representative is right that it is not the money it says on here. It is a matter of finding the best possible organisation, so that we can take advantage of the skills needed to ensure that this group – which is not large, but which everyone in our society can understand is vulnerable, since both sight and hearing are lacking – will receive the good offer they have the right to. I agree with the representative that in a time when the one who calls the highest, often gets the attention, it is important to see those who do not have that opportunity. That is why I want to commend the representative for addressing this question, and I want to say that this is something that I have now become aware of, and that I personally want to do what I can to ensure that it is followed up in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e663	‘In Oppland Arbeiderblad you could read on 4 March that the Inland Hospital gave employees over 65 years ten days to cancel their job. In the letter sent to the employees, it was threatened that if ‘the termination does not take place within 10 days, the employer will start a cancellation process’. Does the Council of State consider such a human resources policy in a state enterprise to be correct and appropriate, or will it act towards the Hospital of the Inland or Health South-East to change its practice?’
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e670	I am concerned that the hospitals are good employers for their employees. My constant impression is that they are, and that those who work in hospitals are motivated people who thrive at work. Safety and well-being for employees are closely linked to good patient care. I often visit hospitals around the country, and I then put the emphasis on meeting employees and trusting without management present to get direct feedback from the employees about how they perceive their working day. Then it is obvious that the individual hospital performs its employer function in line with the statutory and contractual work. It doesn't really have to be underlined, but sometimes we have to remember it. On these issues, good sense of role is important. As Minister of Health, I am the owner of the hospitals, but it is the individual hospital that plays the role of employer vis-à-vis employees. In the case of collective agreements to which hospitals are subject, the employer’s organisation Specter is party to the collective agreements on the employer’s side. In this specific case, most people in the workplace have a statutory age limit of 70 years. This means that the employer can legally terminate a job when an employee reaches this age limit. I would like to stress that this is not a cancellation, but a termination of a job because of the age limit. Some groups of workers then have a special age limit resulting from laws, regulations or collective agreements. In hospitals, this applies inter alia. nurses, auxiliary nurses and cleaners, whose age is essentially 65 years. This means that, in this case, the employer may terminate these working conditions when workers with a special age limit have reached the age limit of the job. However, there is one significant exception to this general rule. This derogation provides for a person below the age limit of 67, the possibility to work until 67 years if they have not earned full pension entitlements and if the employee so wishes. This is the result of a tariff provision in the collective bargaining agreement in the KS, which was continued in the hospitals after the transition to health enterprises. As mentioned above, an employer may terminate the employment of an employee when he reaches the age limit of the job. The Working Environment Act § 15–13a has rules on how this should be done. Based on what has appeared in the media, it may appear that the text of the letter sent to the workers concerned is not entirely in accordance with the wording of the law, and has therefore been perceived as negatively and unnecessarily burdensome. I have now assured myself that the Inland Hospital, in consultation with Specter, has reviewed the design of the letters in question, so that these are in line with the wording of the Work Environment Act and appear to be a good end to the working conditions of workers who reach this age limit. Then I would like to stress once again that I, as the owner of the hospitals, assume that the enterprises act as a good employer for their employees at all stages of the employment relationship.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e687	I thank you for your answer. I would like to stress that I also think it is important that the Council of State deal with the hospital sector in a professional way. I am a little more uncertain about the fact that a 65-year-old worker gets fired because he becomes 65 years old, is better because he gets a different wording. But it's clear that it doesn't hurt to fire people in a more polite and neater way. I understand that it is difficult for the Council of State to address the specific matter. So instead let me ask a more general question: a working life where when you're 65, you're told that you get ten days to pack up and go – you don't get to go even if you want to – is it a good working life in the opinion of the Council? Is that how it should be?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e696	Let's start by saying that we agree that laws and rules must be observed. It is important that there are clear laws, regulations and good processes in the workplace, not least in the health sector that have a demanding job. The legislation, with 65 years of age for some groups, has been negotiated, and it has been agreed, with the possibility of continuing to 67 years. What strikes you in the health system is that the heavy promises often affect a worker. But very many people who work in health care are actively linked to the health care system at an advanced age, and that's good. So I would say that a working life under ideal conditions should have good dialogue, predictability and a planning horizon that makes it possible to live and plan their lives. In such a perspective, a minimum of ten days, as may be stated in the legislation, would not, in my view, be a good practice in the workplace. At least it should not come as a surprise ten days before. This should have been announced in the dialogue and contact in advance. Then I am glad that the representative understands that I cannot go into a single matter, which I believe we have not necessarily been fully informed through the media release.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e705	I want to continue on the overall level. The size has recently been adopted — both the Workers’ Party and the Right have been involved, and the Ministry has also indicated that it is now desirable — to review all the age limits in the labour market. This concerns both the 70-year limit, whether it is too low and should be higher, for example. 75 years, and you also want a review of different types of special age limits. In that round, it would also be natural to ask the Ministry of Health about recordings. What, then, will the Ministry of Health's input be to help make people stand longer in the workplace? For example, you want to do this. in favour of a review of special age limits, would one be in favour of an increase in the upper age limit, or would it be considered that the status quo – as it is today – is good enough?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e712	‘Status quo’ is not a honorary word. I'm always concerned that we can adapt the rules to the needs. The major overall need in the health sector is that we will have a challenge in recruiting health professionals. There is a large and important resource in older workers, from my age onwards, who can contribute and support their experience. Besides, I'm not a health professional, so I have to trust that there are good people in that sector. So I can answer yes to the question. If this work starts — and this is what it does — the Ministry of Health should give its attention to the needs that exist. We'll do it in conversation with the employee organisations, who also know how heavy it is in this sector. They can help those who have been able to stand for a long time also have the opportunity to finish their employment in a dignified way – and to take into account the fact that we are getting older and that many want to be longer in work. So the working line, I think, is a general principle that we want to support in the health sectors as well, and then we're going to be both drivers and contributors in the review that comes in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e723	‘One year ago, the County Council of Hordaland adopted the framework for the continuation of the Bergen Programme. Including extension of Bybanen construction step 3, with planned construction start in autumn 2013. Planning stops and a number of contracts are delayed as a result. the slow procedure of the government again. To keep things moving, the matter should have gone into Stortinget before Christmas. There is really nothing unknown in the application, now we're writing soon April, why won't the matter be dealt with?'
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e730	First of all, let me start by giving recognition to Bergen and Hordaland, who through the Bergen program was one of the first to use a program that combined it with tolls and thus contributed to a split layer between county council, state and motorists. There have been many transport challenges in that urban area, and will also be in the years to come. Then it's a goal to get a quick handling of matters in the ministry and government. Sometimes it takes a long time, and this is such a case. Then I would like to stress that there is a quite extensive process from an application being dealt with in local and regional bodies until the matter can be dealt with in Stortinget. What has been done in this case is that an analysis of the traffic and income base of the toll application is necessary, and then it has to go through an external quality assurance, a so-called KS2. In the quality assurance process, it is not least important that the planning basis is sufficient. On the basis of this, the toll proposal is to be re-established. It has taken a long time in this matter. However, I am aware that the work on external quality assurance is now in the final phase, and I hope that it will be possible to deal with this matter in Stortinget during the spring. It won't be long before it will be presented to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e741	Thanks for the answer. I would like to remind you that this toll application is the third in the range of the Bergen programme, which was first adopted by the Council of State in 2005. Although this is a material that has been known for over ten years, it is clearly so complicated that the government spends over one year examining this application. Then I have to ask: what about construction step 3 in the continuation of the Bergen program that is so much more complicated than the first two steps, since it takes so much longer to process construction step 3 than the first two? Now construction step 2 is immediately ready for use on the Urban Railway. It's been a great success, and now you're waiting to start with construction step 3, which is delayed by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e750	It is enough that one here has to say that seas if this is the third toll application, each toll application has to be dealt with separately. It must also be quality assured on a sea-going basis for each time it is to be treated in government and presented to the Size. That is also the case in this case. Then what I have tried to point out – it has taken a long time – is that it is in particular the so-called external quality assurance, the KS2 process, which in this case has taken time. It is also the case that a person must feel fully confident that the planning basis is sufficient when submitting the toll application to the Stortinget. But, as I said, one aims to make it happen in a very short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e755	It's uplifting that it now finally seems to be coming. But I want to make the Council aware that the Bergen programme is losing 1 million. every day because this is not adopted and the tolling system cannot be continued. Of course, there is money that could have gone to build the city railway. So far this year, this delay has amounted to 78 million. kr in lost income. In addition, we know that Hordaland County is pushing the plan so that this does not stop, and of course the loan costs are charged. Does the Council not agree that this is an unnecessary high price to pay for such a long time on this application?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e762	I may not be able to join that calculation without delay, and especially if it is based on the fact that the treatment applied for in the government is only to be a sanding of a local application. It's not like that. It must be assessed on a seagoing basis for each individual request for toll, including in government, and quality assurance through a so-called KS2 process. It's got to get you through. So to join such an equation, I can't do without it. I think that the Right too, if the Right had been in a position where they had had influence in government, would have wanted the matters presented to the Storting to review the necessary processes before they were submitted. Having said that, I also think that the treatment of this matter has taken a long time. It is therefore important that it is now presented to the Stortinget quite quickly. I look forward to further discussing the more planned aspects, the planning basis, with representatives from Bergen at a meeting scheduled for them tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e773	‘Reference to publication in the Address Paper of 1 March on statistics on time-limits for the protection of children. Transnational municipalities break the deadline for about one in four child protection studies. VG 6 March shows that the Health Inspectorate has revealed a breach of law or regulation in 87 of the Child Welfare Services. In recent years, the size of the population has provided funds for significant escalation and rehabilitating municipal child protection. What is the Council of State's assessment that so many time-limits still exist, and what action will the Council of State take?'
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e780	Let me first say that I share the concern of the representative, Håbreuk, about the situation in many municipalities. Reporting from municipalities shows that there are still large differences between municipalities, including: in the case of a breach of time limits in the protection of children. South-Trøndelag and North-Trøndelag are among the counties with the highest percentage of violations of the law’s deadlines for investigations. Both counties are above the national average. I am aware that the County follows the municipalities involved, closely, in order to improve the situation. It is not acceptable to break the time-limits laid down by the Act on the Protection of the Child. The reasons are more numerous, and the government has met them with a focus on several positions in the municipalities, increasing competence and improving supervision. We will not see the full effect of this until all the new jobs are occupied and the measures are allowed to work. I therefore expect that the positive developments we see today will be reinforced in the future. I will, as the representative of Hope is familiar with, shortly put forward a bill on changes in the Child Protection Act. The legislative proposal will also contain a notification part. I would like to address measures to strengthen the competence, quality and supervision of child protection. Major differences between municipalities are one of the reasons why the government has increased the number of child protection posts in the last four years through government appropriations. The government's child-restraint promise started in 2010 with a specific increase in the free income of municipalities based on the needs of child-restraint. Then, in 2011, 2012 and 2013, funds have been earmarked for new positions in municipalities. In total, this has enabled municipal child protection to recruit 850 new professionals. The initiative provides a boost for the entire protection of children, with a particular focus on strengthening child protection services in the most vulnerable municipalities, providing better skills and strengthening supervision. Reports from municipal child protection in 2011 and 2012 show, for the first time in a long time, a positive trend in the proportion of fixed-term offences on a national basis. I'm very happy about that. In 2012, the proportion of time-limits for studies was 15 pst. This decline of 2.5 percentage points from 2010. And that's a sign that the child protection promise has helped reverse a negative trend, but we're far from the goal. Differences between municipalities relate to the resources and competences of child protection services, municipal size, the municipality’s economy and local challenges. Reports from the last six months show, among other things: a large increase in takeovers. The work on such matters requires extensive resources and competences. I believe that the government's child-restraint promise has contributed to a greater number of child-rescue services now than in the past. Both the National Audit Office and the State Health Authority highlight the need for better governance and management of child protection services in municipalities. In 2013, the government started work on developing a master’s level of child protection education. I'm busy with this. We need to have better skills and more jobs, but we also need to have better leadership in municipalities. The people play an important role for us in following up, especially where there is cause for concern, and they follow child protection much more closely now than before. And they're aware of the government's strong commitment to the most vulnerable kids getting good follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e801	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The situation is serious when such figures appear. Both the Council of State and I have had a commitment that people should keep their eyes open to child protection more closely when you think there might be a reason for it. Then it becomes all the more serious that there is an impression that the child protection system is unable to handle these messages. I understand that the Council of State can't tell what is going on in the matter she's going to present to the Grand Council, but when we've stepped up with so much resources and staffing for municipal child protection, basically the question is, What is the Council of State's explanation that this is the case? Is it just that we haven't yet seen the full effect of the escalation, and that we're about to have control? Or is it that we're facing an escalating development with ever new things, where we'll never really be able to recapture the growth in the number of things, and that we have to think completely new?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e810	In the last decades, and perhaps in particular in the last 15 years, there has been a ripple in the view of children in our society, for which we should be very pleased, and in the view of the family, that we must also care about what is happening within the four walls, and also in the view of violence and carelessness. We now know a lot more about the consequences of that. At the same time as this, there has been an increase in the number of concerns messages. More people care about children now, and that's very good. Then we see that those municipalities that focus more on prevention measures, for example. via health centres, less need to bet on the protection of children. In many places, however, they have put neither health centres nor child protection in particular in recent years, as we have seen a ripple in the view of children. I think we have to assume that we have a pretty big job to do. So even though the arrow is now turned around – and we are happy about that – we will have to work on getting a good protection for children for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e817	I thank you for your answer again. The arrow may have turned on the number of timeouts recently. But when it comes to raising issues, I'm still amazed if you're able to train child protection educators and grant money to take back those developments unless you might ask yourself even more fundamental questions about children and social development, which the Council of State has in mind. My next question is really about a different relationship, the big difference between the different states that the numbers show. South Throne Team, my own state, has 21 pst. Tempus break, Nord-Trøndelag has 35 pst., Nordland has 35 pst, while the County of the Council of State, Vestfold, has only 1.5 pst. breach of time limits. My last question to the Council of State will then be: Is this a management challenge as it seems that some states have almost full control, while others do not seem to have control at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e826	It's a management challenge, to the highest degree, but some of the variations are also due to the fact that there has been a long-term understaffing, especially as far as the trombone layer is concerned. They're in a special situation, there's a lot of variation, and they're not representative of the big picture. Fortunately, we have finally managed to turn the arrow in terms of fractures – that is very important. The same applies to how many children have supervisors and how many have plans. That's good. However, we still have to work hard to continue to strengthen child protection in municipalities, so that the children are caught in time, and preferably before it is necessary to go to care services. I am also concerned that child protection often comes in when the children have grown up and that there are few messages when the children are very young. This suggests that you might hesitate more to report on the very smallest children. That's not good, because we know that the first two years of life in particular are very important for the future of the child's health and development.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e837	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: «Many younger farmers want to have and drive horses in nutrition as part of farm incomes, but feel that this is something that is not entirely a desired nourishment. What will the Council of State do to ensure that this is a source of income in line with other possibilities of income on a farm?"
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e846	Congratulations on a new role, President, that's very nice. Now I'm going to go over to talk about horse policy. Horses are a very central part of Norwegian agricultural policy – not only as consumers of significant quantities of feed, but also through the breeding and breeding of horses for competition and leisure. This gives agriculture the desired employment and income. Under the agricultural agreement, support for the production of young horses and allowances for holidays and leisure is also granted to those carrying horses. Leisure horses are becoming more common in many families. Here agriculture contributes a lot, among other things. through stalls, feed, pastures and riding paths. Above the Agricultural Development Fund, we have schemes that can support both investments and the development of activities and installations that fall under the definition of construction industries. Over the years, the Ministry has provided for a wide range of nutritional measures, based on agricultural properties, such as food specialities, green tourism, Tunet and energy production. There is still a large untapped potential in many areas. Many have seen that the horse works very well in green care and green travel. Entering the tune is an industry of growth. About 1 100 farms currently offer health, care, work, school and growth services. In recent years, parts of the equine sport have been engaged in — to a greater extent than at present — recognition of their activities as an industry in a fiscal sense. This is the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, but there has also been dialogue between departments on these issues. The tax legislation distinguishes between horse-riding activities related to farm resources such as buildings and land, and horse-riding activities which are not part of what is defined as part of the agricultural activity and which therefore have to fulfil the general conditions of business classification. As a general rule, breeding, rearing and renting of farm premises is included as part of the agricultural activity and may be included in the calculation of agricultural deductions. Enter thin and green travel life, for example: may be included as part of the agricultural activity if turnover does not exceed NOK 30000 per year. Otherwise, these activities must meet the general conditions of the business classification, which means that the activity: intended to have a certain length of time is suitable for making profits operated for the account and risk of the taxpayer. The challenge associated with rushing and galloping is that there are only a few of the owners of loose horses who are profiting over time. Therefore, few have the activity classified as an industry. Such establishments must normally refer to results where the requirements are met before they are recognised as operators.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e874	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is a fact that there is an increasing number of farmers, that the farmers that exist are getting older, that there is an increasing number of farms that are in operation, that the number of Decare crops does not increase, and that what is increasing is the number of empty farms. Then this horse-fed part of what might be helping younger farmers – perhaps especially ladies – think it might be interesting to take over the farm or buy and run a farm. I think there are more ladies than men who are interested in horses, and so we can also solve the challenge of getting more ladies into Norwegian agriculture. I am aware that this may be more a matter for the Minister of Finance, so I am going to follow up on this with him later, but I would like to raise this matter in the Questionnaire with the Minister of Agriculture and hear what he thinks about it. I have received a positive response, but many in the industry still feel that they are not being heard.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e883	You can get money, for example. if you have developed your farm to have more horse-based business. You can get money through the Agricultural Development Fund to invest. In addition, there is a positive stimulus – which we use over my budget – to stimulate more horses in industry and a better basis for farm work. The production of young horses and horses on pasture also provides a basis for subsidies. We also have arrangements where you can get more orderly holidays and leisure time with the help of redeemers. So we have both investment instruments and support schemes around the production itself and in terms of holiday and leisure, which are going to help raise that industry. I fully agree with the representative of Bredvold that this is an area where there are opportunities to create greater values in Norwegian villages.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e892	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is clear that there needs to be a distinction between nutrition and private use – I understand that, and that is why I will ask the Minister of Finance a question about this later. But it's clear that this is about a horse in nutrition, and that it should preferably have a profit, of course, because that's why you're feeding. You have to make money on it, and it also has to be within this industry if you are to be allowed to do this as a business. I believe that the Council of State and I agree that this is the case, but I still wanted to raise this issue, because I have received a relatively large number of enquiries about it. There's a part that doesn't feel like you're being heard: you have a horse, and that's part of the industry. That's how the council also says: Horse was important before, but now the tractor has taken over, and then the horse has got a different place in the industry, and I think we'll try to take advantage of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e903	Here we have a propitiatory little questioning time. It's nice, like this is Norwegian politics sometimes. One of the challenges is how the tax code around riding a horse is. One has now tried to make it easier within the tax system by having an office in Hamar to which you can turn if you have tax questions about it by horse in business, because there are boundaries here. That is why we want the help to be as easily available as possible, and that is why we have done the little bit about the fact that those who do this can contact some professionals who actually know this field. When we talk about horse nutrition, we often talk about jogging and galloping, but remember that what really makes a lot of fun out across the country – in addition to that – are the traditional riding schools, renting out stalls and children's families who are traveling. This is fully feasible — even with profits — and, fortunately, more and more people are willing to bet on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2013-03-20.ana.ud873e922	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed.
